Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   15164
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND STRTJCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1926-GUI)
DECEMBER 6, 1995
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa R-gion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Average, Guinean Francs per US Dollar)
1986          GF 345
1987          GF 428
1988          GF 475
1989          GF 592
1990          GF 661
1991          GF 754
1992          GF 902
1993          GF 956
1994          GF 985
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF                        African Development Fund
BCRG                         Banque Centrale de la Rdpublique de Guinde
CCEF                        Comite de Coordination Economique et Financiere
DAAF                        Financial and Administrative Management Directorate
ESAF                         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA                         International Development Association
IFC                          International Finance Corporation
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
MEF                          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MID                          Ministry of Interior and Decentralization
MPCI                         Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
MRAFP                        Ministere de la Reforme Administrative
et de la Fonction Publique
PAGEN                       Economic Management Support Project
PFP                         Policy Framework Paper
PIP                          Public Investment Program
PREF                         Economic and Financial Reform Program
OECF                        The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
SAC                         Structural Adjustment Credit
SECAL                       Sectoral Adjustment Loan or Credit
SDR                          Special Drawing Rights
SJF                          Special Joint Financing



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington. D.C 20433
I) S A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                December 6, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report (PCR) on Guinea:
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1926-GUI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Guinea Second Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC 11; Credit 1926-GUI. approved in FY88 and closed in FY94) prepared by the Africa
Regional Office. The borrower 's evaluation of SAC 11 (Part 11 of PCR) is not available.
The objective of SAC 11 (US $65.1 million) was to continue to support the Government's
economic reform program toward a market-oriented economy as the foundation for sustained growth.
SAC 11 was designed to address the constraints of the Government's weak capacity for economic and
financial management through (1) rationalization of the civil service; (2) implementation of resource
mobilization and financial management measures; (3) continuation of public enterprise reforms: (4)
further legal and institutional measures to promote private sector development; and (5) development of a
comprehensive social policy. SAC If was prepared in haste after the release of the second tranche of
SAC I (Credit 1659-GUI, approved in FY86 and closed in FY89) to bridge the borrower's financing gap.
Project implementation was slow and stretched over a period of five-and-a half years as opposed to
eighteen months contemplated in the loan document. Some of the reforms carried out in the initial two
years were subsequently reversed. For example, after an initial period of minor retrenchment of the civil
service, in 1991 about 5,000 civil servants were hired as "temporary personnel" which in 1995 still
remain on the payroll. Modest gains were made in public enterprise reform through privatization and
price liberalization but no significant progress was made in achieving the remaining objectives.
Therefore, the project outcome is rated as "marginally unsatisfactory". The project's institutional
development impact is rated as negligible and sustainability as uncertain.
A number of factors contributed to the project failure. First, the project design failed to consider
weak institutional capacity and government commitment to reform. Second, while the borrower
commitment to carry out fundamental reform was suspect, the project conditionality failed to specify
objectively verifiable performance indicators for use in the release of funds. Third, the Bank provided
additional credit under a parallel sectoral adjustment project which eased the pressure on public finances
and may, therefore, have contributed to delay in the implementation of SAC 1I reforms.
The PCR draws several important lessons from the project's experience. First, adjustment lending
operations that simply bridge fiscal gaps and do not accomplish structural reforms compound a country's
debt burden and thereby accentuate its economic woes in the long run. Second, feasibility of reform and
its sequencing is critical for project success. Finally. tranche release conditions that are couched in terms
of outconies rather than promulgation of legal measures, can serve as aids to effective project
management.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Atlachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................................i
KEY   PROJECT  DATA   ........................................................................    iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................................v
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................................I
A. PROJECT IDENTITY ........................................................................1I
B. THE ANTECEDENTS OF SAC 11 .........................................................................1
The  First Republic ........................................................................1I
The  Initial Phase  of Adjustment .........................................................................2
C. PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND APPROVAL OF SAC II ....................                                                                .............................. 3
D. PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  AND   DESCRIPTION   .........................................................................                                                3
E. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM  .................                                                                        ...........................6
General Comments .........................................................................6
Impact of SAC II .........................................................................7
F. CONCLUSIONS  AND   LESSONS  OF  SAC   II ........................................................................                                               12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...................... 15
ANNEX A: BASIC CREDIT DATA ........................................................................                                                                17
TABLE  A-1:  RELATED   CREDITS  INFORMATION   ....................................................................                                                 19
TABLE  A-2:  PROJECT  TIMETABLE  ...........................                                               .............................................   19
TABLE A-3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT ........................................................................                                                            19
TABLE A-4: GUINEA SAC II DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE ................................................... 20
TABLE A-5: BANK MISSION  DATA ........................................................................                                                             21
TABLE  A-6:  BANK   RESOURCES: STAFF  INPUTS  ....................................................................    21
TABLE A-7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ........................................................................  22
ANNEX B: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS ........................................................................    23
TABLE  B- 1:  KEY   MACROECONOMIC   INDICATORS ................................................. ..............  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Structural Adjustment Credit in
Guinea for which Credit 1926-GUI in the amount of SDR 47 million Nvas approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1988. The Credit became effective on Marchl 2, 1989. The Credit was amenided in
May 1993 to provide additional assistance in the amount of SDR 70 thousanid (IDA reflow). Credit
closing, originally anticipated for December 3 1. 1990. was extended three times to December 31, 1993;
the initial Credit amount was fully disbursed in September 1993 and was kept open until December 1993
to allow disbursement of the supplemental allocation.
ii.    This PCR was prepared by staff of the Country Operations Division of the Western Afr-ica
Department (AF5CO). Guineani authorities have been formally requested' to undertake an evaluation of
the program (Part 11). When the Borrower's completion report is finalized. it will be included In the
Project file. In view of the close cooperation betweeni Bank stalf and the Governmeit durinig the SAC II
period, this assessment is not expected to differ significantly from that of the Bank.
iii.    This report is based, inter alia. on the Report and Recommeniedationi of the President to the
Executive Directors. the Letter of Developmenit Policv. the Development Credit Agreemenit. supervision
reports, the memoranidum to the Executive Di-ectors recomimlenidinig release of the second tranche,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower. discussions with the Resident Missioni and interinal
Bank memoranda.
The letter announcing the formal closing of the credit dated April 22, 1994 included a reminder of the
obligations of the borrower to submit to the Association a certified audit of expenditures financed under the Credit
as vwell as its evaluation of the implementation of the program. The authorities were reminded of these legal
ouligations during the 1994 Annual Meeting and in an aide-inemoire in December 1994.






'ii
KEY PROJECT DATA
Credit 1926-0
Borrower:           Republic of Guinea
Amounts:            IDA Credit; SDR 47 million
Terms:              Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:        African Development Fund: UA 10 million (USSI2 million equi valent)
Government of Japan OECF:
Credit; Y l,000 million (USS7.9 million eq.)
Grant; Y  425 million (US$3.3 million eq.)
Credit 1926-1
Supplemental IDA Allocation of SDR 70,000 (IDA Reflow)






v
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    A First Structural Adjustment Credit2 (SAC I) in the amount of US$ 42 million was approved
for Guinea on February 11, 1986 and became effective on May 15, 1986. Due to a weakening of the
pace of reform implementation from mid-1986 to late 1987, the second tranche release was delayed until
January 15, 1988, or about 18 months later than initially scheduled. The credit closed on December 31,
1988.
2.     Preparation of SAC II coincided with the release of the second tranche of SAC I. An Initiating
Memorandum was issued on January 11 1988. The subsequent rapid schedule of preparation, appraisal
and negotiations led to Board approval of SAC 11 on June 16. 1988. The credit became effective on
March 2, 1989.
OBJECTIVE OF THE CREDIT
3.     The objective of SAC 11 was to continue to support the Government's economic reform program
toward a market-oriented economy as the foundation for sustained growth. SAC II was designed to
address the constraints of the Government's weak capacity for economic and financial management
through: (1) the rationalization of the civil service; (2) the implementation of resource mobilization and
financial management measures; (3) the continuation of public enterprise reforms; and (4) further
improvements in the legal and institutional incentives framework to encourage private sector initiative
and investments. The program also aimed at the development of a comprehensive social policy.
4.     Given the weak institutional capacity of the country, the objectives of SAC II were overly
ambitious. The creation of an efficient, motivated and qualified civil service was considered necessary to
improve the management of the national economy but this implied changes in procedures and mentalities
which were difficult to achieve within the two-year timeframe of the program. In addition, most of the
conditions for tranche release did not represent effective benchmarks of progress toward the objective as
they were overwhelmingly biased toward expenditure control to the detriment of revenue enhancement,
improved civil service management and an enhanced legal and institutional framework. Remaining
conditions were narrowly sector specific and of limited macroeconomic impact.
5.    In view of a growing discrepancy between the Government's rhetoric and actions toward
reforms, a key issue in the preparation of SAC II should have been obtaining firm commitment from the
Government to the reform process as mentioned in the Initiating Memorandum3. However, risks to
program implementation were only identified as: (i) a decline in the international aluminum price which
would have a negative impact on the projected improvement of Guinea's external and fiscal balances;
and (ii) the weak ability of the administration to execute the program effectively and in a timely manner.
As mid-1987 projections indicated a financing gap of US$ 80 million for 1988 and 1989, the logic of
gap-financing added a measure of urgency to the preparation of SAC II and contributed to the relative
neglect of the need for commitment to implement reforms.
2     Credits No. 1659-GUI and No. SFA AOl Il
3     "Guinea: Initiating Memorandum for a Proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II)". January
11, 1988.



vi
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
6.     Program implementation was extremely slow: the credit disbursed over five-and-a-half years
instead of the expected eighteen months as conditions for effectiveness and for second tranche release
met with significant delays. The program made only marginal progress toward its reform objectives and
some of this progress was partially eroded after the release of the second tranche.
7.     Domestic revenue mobilization improved from 4.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to 7.1 percent in
1993 but remained well below the potential and failed to compensate fully for the decline in mining
revenue. As a result, fiscal revenue at the end of 1993 represented only 11.6 percent of GDP versus the
14 percent targeted in the program. Progress in reform of public enterprises was uneven. Petroleum
products imports and resale activities were fully privatized. Two key public utility companies in water
and electricity distribution passed under private management contracts But progress on other publicly-
owned companies has been extremely slow as the official statements were not matched by specific
actions. During the period of the program, the consolidation of market reforms continued with most
prices being market-determined or, when administered, set at close to true cost. In the financial sector,
reforms were marked by the increasing market influence in the determination of key rates and the
gradual removal of the last restrictions oni foreign exchange holdings and transactions. An information
system for the management of the civil service was established and the personnel rolls were cleaned up.
But the impact of this tool on civil service management has been marginal. as the system serves largely
an expost function of recording hiring and promotion decisions with little evidence of a more
substantive contribution to the management of the civil service.
8.    The macroeconomic impact of the program is mixed. GDP growth over the period averaged 4.1
percent as targeted in spite of a downturn in 1991 and 1992 caused by political uncertainty. However,
the increase in private investments on which it had been predicated did not materialize. Instead, large
flows of external financial assistance helped boost domestic demand and supported growth. The low
response of private investments initially helped improve the level of the current account deficit toward
the targeted 4 percent of GDP. After 1990, the decline in mining exports revenue and increased capital
imports by mining companies contributed to a widening of the current account deficit to 7.8 percent of
GDP in 1992 and 7.0 percent in 1993. After a brutal drop in 1988, caused by the conjunction of a decline
in mining exports and a surge in imports, the stock of foreign reserves increased rapidly and reached the
targeted level in the program by 1990. Control of inflation proved to be more difficult than expected: the
objective of reaching a level of inflation equal to the one of Guinea's main trading partners was not
reached until 1994, about 4 years behind schedule.
SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE AND FINDINGS
9.     Conclusions. The delays in effectiveness and in second tranche release point to serious
problems in implementation of SAC 11. Although signs of a weakening commitment to pursue forcefully
the adjustment program became evident throughout 1987, the release of SAC I second tranche in early
1988 was taken as a sign of renewed commitment and led to what in hindsight turned out to be a too
optimistic assessment of the progress which could be achieved under SAC 11. Furthermore, as a
financing gap of US$ 80 million was projected for 1988 and 1989, the urgency of gap-fill financing to
preserve past gains and macroeconomic stability also contributed to insufficient attention being given
during the preparation of SAC 11 to the strength of Government commitment to the reform program. In
this context, the concurrent existence of two adjustment operations. SAC 11 and the Private Sector



vii
Promotion SECAL, alleviated the pressure on public finances. This may have contributed to the delays
experienced in the implementation of the reforms under SAC 11.
10.    The program supported by SAC 11 was overly ambitious as it encompassed almost all elements
of economic management. Rationalization of civil service management, mobilization of resources,
public enterprises reforms and further progress in the legal and institutional incentive framework are all
necessary elements to achieve sustained growth in a market economy. However, given the weak
institutional capacity of the country, it was unlikely that such a broad program of reform could be
successfully implemented simultaneously. In particular, the feasibility of achieving sustainable reforms
in civil service management within the time frame of the program was highly questionable. However, in
view of the prospects of decreasing mining sector revenue, the mobilization of domestic fiscal resources
should have been given higher priority. Thus, the program failed to prioritize the reforms areas
according to their feasibility within the given timeframe and their urgency.
11.    The nature of the tranche release conditions was not conducive to effective implementation of
the program as they were overwhelmingly based on the promulgation of measures rather than on
outcomes. Implementation of the measures did not necessarily follow. As an example, although the
condition of the creation of a central corporate taxpayer file was fulfilled in 1991, the lack of significant
improvement in the performance in the collection of corporate taxes led Bank and Fund missions in 1993
and 1994 to require the updating of the file and the creation of a corporate tax unit within the Tax
Directorate. Conditions were also biased toward expenditure reduction rather than the broader aspect of
improved management of the civil service and of state finances. Thus, the tranche release conditions did
not represent effective benchmarks for measuring progress toward program objectives.
12.    This discrepancy between the objectives and the benchmarks set in the condition leads to a
somewhat ambiguous assessment of SAC 11. On the one hand, since all conditions were eventually met,
SAC 11 could be considered a success, though a qualified one as the delays in implementation in all
likelihood weakened the impact of the program. On the other hand, an evaluation of the situation in
Guilea at end- 1994 presents by and large the same characteristics as those prevailing in 1988, namely
low domestic revenue mobilization, weak a priori expenditure control, an inefficient civil service and, as
evidenced by the persistent low rate of private formal investments, an unsatisfactory incentive
framework. Measured by these criteria, the impact of SAC 11 would be assessed as marginal.
13.    Weak management capacity was identified as a risk for the implementation of the SAC 11-
supported reform program. As the weak capacity was considered to be largely technical in nature, the
problem was addressed through the preparation of a parallel technical assistance project, PAGEN 11
(Credit 1963-GUI), the signature of which was a condition for SAC 11 effectiveness. However,
according to its project completion report, PAGEN 11 itself suffered from implementation problems
caused by factors such as too broad a spread of activities and too many financing sources. Under this TA
operation, technical assistants largely substituted themselves to their Guinean counterparts to design the
measures necessary to fulfill tranche release conditions with little resulting improvement in the
institutional capacity of the Government. More fundamentally, the experience of SAC 11 shows that
technical assistance cannot be a palliative for weak Government commitment to the reform program
14.    The sustainability of some of the reforms remains doubtful. The weakening of the mobilization
of non-mining revenues in 1993 as compared to 1992, the continued deficient management of the civil
service despite the existence of management tools and the erosion evident in the quality of presentation
of the PIP give cause for concern that some of the gains of the program cannot be sustained without
continued pressures from the international community.



VIii
15.   Lessons. Four lessons may be drawn from SAC Il. First, SACs can be powerful instruments for
supporting policy reforms. However, SACs generally have the dual objective of supporting ambitious
new reform programs as well as bridging existing or emerging financing gaps, thus preserving
macroeconomic stability and past reform gains. In the case of weak or uncertain commitment to reform
as in Guinea, the need to achieve a proper balance between gap-filling and implementation of targeted
reforms becomes of overriding importance for the success of the program. Gap-filling without
significant adjustment only increases the country's debt burden with little long-term economic gains.
16.    Second, the reforms supported must be properly sequenced and must be achievable within the
time frame of the program. By these criteria, the reform areas covered under SAC [I should probably
have been reduced to domestic fiscal resource mobilization and government financial management,
which were both urgent areas of concern given the forecast decline in mining revenue. Although
important, civil service management reform --by its lesser immediate economic impact and its low
probability of significant sustainable progress under the timeframe of the program-- would not have been
included under the SAC but could have been the object of another credit. Similarly, public enterprise
reform is better pursued through instruments other than adjustment lending. By narrowing the focus of
the operation on a set of key interrelated issues, the risk of dispersion of scarce capacity would have been
lowered and the potential for better implementation improved.
17.    Third, the development of the reform program should be based on solid economic and sector
work to, inter alia, help define tranche release conditions in terms of outcomes rather than in terms of
promulgation of legal measures. In particular in cases where the level of Government commitment is
weak, the link between the adoption of measures and their effective implementation can be very tenuous.
18.    Finally, by offering alternative sources of quick disbursements, concurrent adjustment operations
can seriously affect the implementation of a reform program. Thus, in cases when more than one
adjustment operations are to be implemented within roughly the same timeframe, greater attention
should be given to the potential negative impact on the implementation of their respective reform
agenda.



I
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name                       Second Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Number                      1926-GUI
Date Approved                     June 16, 1988
Amount                      :      SDR 47 million
Date Effective                     March 2, 1989
Date Closed                 :      December 31, 1993
Region                      :     Africa
Country                           Guinea
Sector                      :     Structural Adjustment
B.    THE ANTECEDENTS OF SAC II
The First Republic
1.    In 1958, Guinea became the first independent nation of the former French West Africa and the
country inherited a rudimentary infrastructural base which deteriorated considerably over time due to a
lack of maintenance. By 1964, the government had moved to a fully centrally-planned development
model and nationalized all formal private activity. Economic policy was driven primarily by government
efforts to accelerate economic growth and development through increased state-ownership of productive
activities. The private sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network of state enterprises in all
sectors of the economy, and private sector activity went underground. The once dynamic agricultural
sector regressed to subsistence production and the mining sector replaced the rural sector as the
supporting pillar of the economy. However, as mines operated in enclaves with limited either forward or
backward linkages with the rest of the economy, the importance of the contribution of the mining sector
to the economy was limited to the financing of state employment and of necessary imports.
2.     From 1960 to 1974, GDP grew by only 2.4 percent per annum, representing a total decline of 9
percent in per capita terms over the period. With the start-up of major new bauxite mining operations,
the GDP growth rate rose to 3.5 percent during 1975-80, but declined to an estimated 1 percent after
1980 as the new mines reached full capacity. Despite Guinea being generally recognized as well
endowed in agricultural, mineral and energy resources, GDP per capita in 1985 was only US$ 375 and
the country had some of the worst socio-economic indicators in Sub-Saharan Africa.
3.    At the time of the death of President Sekou Toure in 1984, the economy of Guinea was on the
brink of collapse. Emphasis on state-led development had not achieved the desired modernization and
industrialization. Non-mining tax revenues had shrunk and serious distortions, most notably the
overvalued exchange rate, created disincentives to export. An inability to mobilize domestic savings led
to an increasingly heavy debt burden. State bank and public enterprises became insolvent. The incentive
framework was hostile to private activity, as farmers living at subsistence level were forced to make
compulsory sales to the State and movement of goods and people were severely constrained.
Urbanization had accelerated as farming became unprofitable and productive activities were increasingly
shifted from the rural to the urban sector but no significant investments in urban infrastructure had been
made. Infrastructure in roads, electricity, water distribution deteriorated for lack of maintenance. Many



2
of the countries intellectuals and best entrepreneurs had emigrated in vast numbers during the first two
decades of Guinea's independence to escape repressive policies. Traditional values had been displaced
by ideological doctrine. The legal system was in shambles as arbitrary authority substituted for due
process and ineffectual public institutions proliferated to absorb an inflated civil service, whose
remuneration consisted largely of official rations, notably rice.
The Initial Phase of Adjustment
4.     The military Government which came to power in 1984 took significant and courageous steps to
fundamentally reform Guinea's economy by implementing an Economic and Financial Reform Program
(PREF) in 1985 which promoted the principles of a market economy and initiated an economic
stabilization and adjustment program. In a first phase of reform under the Second Republic, the
Government corrected the most important distortions by: (a) the introduction of a new currency at a rate
which implied a fifteen-fold depreciation; (b) the liberalization of internal and external trade; (c) the
privatization of banking and other commercial activities. (d) reductions in the size of the civil service;
(e) the rehabilitation of social services; and (f) the rebuilding of the infrastructure. By its decisive
actions in trade liberalization, the Government demonstrated its intention to rely increasingly on private
sector initiative in all activities previously under the monopoly of state-owned enterprises. Guinea's
reform program and transition to a more open and pluralist society was rapid and was supported by a
First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 1)4 approved in February 1986 and a Stand-By Arrangement
from the IMF.
5.     The initial reforms, and the pace at which the Government implemented them constituted a
major achievement. These reforms yielded visible results: agricultural output and marketing increased,
as did small-scale manufacturing and services in the urban areas. The economy grew by an estimated 6
percent in 1987 or roughly 3 percent per capita. Inflation rate declined from over 30 percent in 1986 to
21.7 percent in 1988. But the fiscal deficit (excluding external grants) worsened from 7.7 percent of GDP
in 1986 to 9.8 percent in 1988 due to slippages in financial discipline and a persisting weakness in the
management capacity of the Ministry of Finance. The external current account (excluding public
transfers) deteriorated from 6.6 percent of GDP in 1986 to 13.2 percent in 1988 as a consequence of high
internal demand and lower export value from mining. By mid-1987, SAC I supervision reports indicated
a weakening in the progress of reforms and an increasing discrepancy between the rhetoric of the
Government and its actions: the second tranche of SAC I was not released until January 1988, about 18
months behind schedule.
6.     Despite the comprehensive deregulation and liberal policies, private investment by local or
foreign investors did not increase significantly except in the trade and housing sectors. The significant
achievements since the onset of the program nevertheless needed to be completed by substantial further
reforms to achieve the transformation of the Guinean economy into a market economy generating
sustained growth. Key identified weaknesses were the economic and financial management capacity of
the Administration and the public institutional framework which impaired the efficiency of reform
implementation.
4      Credit No. 1659-GUI (SDR 22.9 million) and SFA No AOl I (SDR 15.6 million).



3
C.    PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND APPROVAL OF SAC II
7.    The foundation for the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 11) was laid in the context of
the achievements of the first phase of the PREF. Borrower participation in program design and
preparation was considered fundamental to successful implementation. The second phase of the
Govemment's program was largely prepared during a workshop held in Guinea in December 1987, with
high-level Guinean civil servants and participants from the university, labor unions, and the Chamber of
Commerce.
8.    The most recent Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) predated the end of the First Republic5
Aside from staff appraisals reports (SARs) for operations being prepared, economic and sectoral work
during the first phase of the PREF had been limited to population6 and energy7. As a new CEM was not
scheduled until FY89, Bank staff had to rely for the preparation of SAC 11 on the experience gathered
from supervision missions of SAC I and inputs from technical assistance in place in the country.
However, the radical changes under the first phase of the PREF would seem to have warranted a more in-
depth preparation for the second phase of the adjustment program.
9.    The initiation of the preparation of SAC 11 coincided with the release of the second tranche of
SAC I in mid-January 1988. As a back-to-office report in April 19878 projected a residual financing gap
of US$ 80 million for 1988 and 1989 which "[could] be covered with a second Structural Adjustment
Credit of an equivalent amount", it seems that the preparation of SAC 11 was at least partly driven by the
urgency of resource transfer at the cost of a better analytical understanding of the sequencing of the
actions needed to overcome the constraints to accelerated growth.
10.   SAC 11 was prepared by the Government with Bank assistance and appraised in March 1988.
Negotiations were completed in May 1988 and Board approval took place on June 16, 1988. The credit
was signed on June 29, 1988, and became effective on March 2, 19899. On December 23, 1992, a credit
amendment for a supplementary allocation of SDR 70,000 under IDA reflow was approved by the Board,
signed on May 7, 1993, and became effective on December 15, 1993.
11.   The IDA credit of SDR 47 million was accompanied by significant direct cofinancing amounts.
The African Development Fund supported the second structural adjustment program with a loan of UA
10 million (US$12 million equivalent), while the Government of Japan contributed Y I billion (US$7.9
million equivalent) in loan and Y 425 million (US$3.3 million equivalent) in grant. In addition, the
approval of the credit by the Board of the World Bank made available to Guinea similar financial support
from France (US$23 million equivalent), the European Community (US$14 million) and the United
States (US$8 million). Thus, programmed assistance to the adjustment program linked to SAC 11
amounted to US$ 135 million.
D.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
12.   Project Objectives. The objective of SAC II was to continue to support the Government's
reform program toward a market-oriented economy as the foundation for sustained growth. The
Report No. 4690-GUI, February 1984.
6      Report No. SR-6229-GUI, May 1986, "Population, Health and Nutrition".
Report No. SR-6137-GUI, November 1986, "Issues and Options in the Energy Sector".
8     K.M. Larrecq and T. Manuelyan Atinc to R.F. Skillings (WA2DD), April 17, 1987.
The causes of the delays for effectiveness are addressed in paragraph 20 below.



4
operation was designed to address the constraint of the Government's weak capacity for economic and
financial management through: (I) the rationalization of the civil service; (2) the implementation of
resource mobilization and financial management measures; (3) the continuation of public enterprise
reforms; and (4) further improvements in the legal and institutional incentives framework to encourage
private sector initiative and investments. The program also aimed at the development of a comprehensive
social policy.
13.   Loan Conditionalityfor Tranche Disbursements. SAC 11 was expected to be disbursed over 18
months in two tranches. The first tranche, to be made available at effectiveness, was to be released upon
the following specific conditions being met satisfactorily:
* adoption of the revised organizational structures of the Central Administration;
* promulgation of the legal texts governing civil service employment:
O  ending the administrative reserve status for employees who could not be placed in
the new public organization structure by December 1988 and eligibility to the
voluntary departure scheme of public employees on administrative reserve,
O  defining the severance package for employees not retained within the civil service
either because of testing results or restructuring of public enterprises,
O  extending the voluntary departure scheme to civil servants wishing to leave public
employment prior to testing:
* revision of the decree on cement production and imports toward an elimination of licensing
and specific surtaxes;
*  ratification of the agreement setting up the new joint venture petroleum company, the Societe
Guineenne de Petrole (SGP);
*  promulgation and publication of the Public Procurement Code and the Guinean General
Accounting Law;
* application of full cost pricing formula for imported food aid rice;
* signature of the proposed Second Economic Management project (PAGEN 11).
In addition, it had been agreed during negotiations that the central departments of the Ministries
of Economy and Finance (MEF), of Planning and International Cooperation (MPCI) and of the
Administrative Reform and Civil Service (MRAFP) would be reorganized and their staff confirmed in
their new positions by December 31, 1988.
14.    Second tranche release was contingent on the following conditions being met:
*  enactment of financial regulations and procedures governing central government financial
transactions;
*  adoption of the 1989 budget with effective implementation of a public accounting system
and submission of a report on the implementation of the 1988 budget;
* adoption of a satisfactory 1989-91 public investment program;
* adoption of the new organizational structure of the decentralized administration;
* completion of the testing and selection process and implementation of decisions concerning
retained and laid-off staff for all ministries but the teaching staff of the Ministry of National
Education;
* effective implementation of a central payroll service file at the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and establishment of a permanent personnel and salary monitoring and control
mechanism;



5
*  establishment of a central corporate taxpayer file on the basis of a census of corporate
taxpayers:
*  enactment of the loi-cadre governing State relations with the public enterprise sector.
1 5.    Evaluation of Conditionalities. The conditions for disbursement of SAC 11 warrant several
comments. First, there is a great variance in the expected macroeconiomiiic impact of the conditions:
although the conditions related to rice and cement are valid and important for the developmenit of their
respective sectors, their contribution to the global objectives of the program can only be considered at
best marginal. Second, both the Memorandum of the President (MOP) and the Letter of Development
Policy of the Govermilenit identified a sequencing of actions which would contribute to the long term
sustainability of the reform process. "[The creation] of an efficient, motivated and qualified civil service"
was considered the necessary condition for ilmprovements in the maniagemilenit of the nationial economy
which included revenue enhanicemilenit, control over expenditures and public enterprise reforimi. In manly
ways, the conditionis selected as bencihimiarks of progress under the program do not reflect this approach.
With the exception of the creation of a central corporate taxpayer file, most conditionis, in particular
those dealing with civil service. relate fundamentally to expenditure control if not outright expenditure
reduction thus affecting the intenided balance in the reform program. The reforimi of the civil service is by
nature an institution building exercise which would be unlikely to be completed within the short
expected time frame of SAC 11 even with a supporting economiiic management project"0. Nevertheless the
conditions overemphasized the cost reduction aspect of civil service reform at the cost of broader
reforms aiming at the rationalization of its managemenit. Third. only one conditioni related to the
promulgation of the General Accounting Law dealt specifically with the broad legal and institutional
framework for private sector activities. Althoughi an important element, it is unclear whetlier this
condition could help boost private investments when reports identificd the poor implemenitation of
existing laws, notably the investmenlt code. as key constraints to the development of private sector
activities.
16.    The macroeconomic objectives for the program were: (i) an average aniual growvth rate of about
4 percent through 1993, predicated on a strong response from the private sector to the improved
environment; (ii) a level of inflation by 1990 equivalent to that in Guinea's main trading partners: (iii) the
mailiteniance of a constant real effective exchange rate over the period, (iv) the restoration of the level of
available foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of 16 weeks' imports (excluding imports related to
the mining companies or the public investment program): (v) the steady increase in the rate of nationlal
savings from 13 percent of GDP to about 18 percent by 1993; and (vi) the reduction of the external
current account deficit to less than 4 percent of GDP starting in 1989 (despite the forecast drop in bauxite
earnings and a projected rise in the share of gross domestic investment from 18 percent of GDP in 1988
to almost 21.5 percent in 1993).
17.    Identified Risks. Two main risks were identified at the onset of the program: (i) a sharp
expected decline in the international aluminum price which would have a negative impact on the
projected improvement of Guinea's external and fiscal balances, (ii) the weak ability of the
admniistration to execute the program effectively and in a thimely manner whilch was to be mitigated by
the provision of technical assistance under PAGEN 11 (para. 19) and the appointment of a Technical
Secretariat for the Co,niie de Coordlination7 Economique et Fmanciére. Despite obvious concerils about
the potential political consequenices of the reform program among Guinean authorities and consequenit
increased discrepancies between rhetoric and implementation as reported by SAC I supervision missions
II'    See paragraph 19.



6
(and mentioned in the Initiating Memorandum") the political environment was not identified as a risk
which could affect implementation of the program.
18.   Role of the Bank andIMF. Collaboration between IDA and the IMF has been close since 1985,
when the Government first adopted its comprehensive stabilization and adjustment program.
Consultations between IDA and Fund staff have been facilitated by joint missions carried out more
recently in the context of the three-year ESAF and SAC programs. On July 29, 1987, the IMF Board had
approved a cautionary Stand-By Agreement as well as the first annual arrangement under the SAF.
While the Fund and the Bank supported jointly all the elements of the Government's program, the Fund
took the lead in advising the Government in areas falling under its purview, i.e. exchange rate
adjustment, monetary reform, public finance management, credit policy and external debt management.
The Bank focused more on measures to improve the incentive system and strengthen the
legal/institutional framework to support private sector initiative.
19.    TechnicalAssistance. To assist in the implementation of the SAC, auditional support was
provided by a multi-donor Macroeconomic and Financial Management Technical Assistance project
(PAGEN II) approved in November 1988, and IDA-financed Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
project approved in March 1989. Two IDA sectoral adjustment credits, Education (US$20 million
approved in June 1990) and Private Sector Promotion (US$50 million, approved in May 1990) reinforced
the sectoral policy content of SAC 11.
E.  IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM
General Comments
20.   Credit effectiveness was delayed for eight months until March 1989 as two conditions were not
met. First, PAGEN II which was to alleviate the risks of weak management identified in SAC 11 was not
approved until November 1988. Second, negotiations for an agreement for the new joint venture
petroleum company, Societe Guineenne de Petrole (SGP), could not be concluded: a protocol of
agreement was signed only in 1990 and the agreement formally ratified in 1992. This condition was
waived in March 1989.
21.    The second tranche release was delayed by about two and a half years as some conditions were
not met within the expected time frame. A first inventory of corporate taxpayers was not completed until
1991. The law establishing the relationship between central government and public enterprises was not
promulgated until March 1991. The ratification of the creation of the joint venture petroleum company,
SGP, did not occur until 1992. Major problems were encountered in the set-up of the civil service
personnel management file: although a central payroll service at the Ministry of Finance was created in
1991, the mechanism for the monitoring and control of personnel rolls was not instituted until October
1992. Upon this last condition being met, the last tranche was released in November 1992.
22.   The delays in meeting tranche release conditions are linked to the nature of the reforms. The
second phase of the PREF supported by SAC 11 involved a complex and delicate mix of reforming
institutions, changing attitudes both within the administration and the private sector and completing
some of the measures started previously. This process was occurring in an increasingly political
"      i"Guinea: Initiating Memorandum for a Proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL-I1)", January
II, 1988.



7
environment with at times violent demands for political opening. As a consequence, the implementation
of the reforms became problematic. In addition, special interests which had little voice in 1985 in view
of the disastrous situation of the economy regained power and took advantage of the incipient political
liberalization to express their views and block reforms.
23.   In May 1990, the Board approved a sectoral adjustment credit for Private Sector Promotion'2 in
the amount of US$ 50 million. The credit became effective in March 1991 and closed fully disbursed on
December 31, 1992. Although this credit was to support the set up of a proper incentive framework and
therefore could be seen as a complement to SAC 11, the question can be raised whether the availability of
this financing did not provide an opportunity for delaying the implementation of some of the reforms
supported under SAC 11 by alleviating the financial pressures on the Government.
Impact of SAC II
24.   Macroeconomic Performance. Real GDP growth averaged 4.1 percent a year between 1988 and
1990, or marginally over the objective for the program: average growth over the period would have been
higher if not for the growing political insecurity in the wake of the incipient democratic opening of the
country which contributed to a sharp deceleration of growth in 1991 and 1992. However, contrary to
expectations, the growth performance was not caused by an increase in private investments which
represented on average only 9 percent of GDP against 14 percent targeted. Private investments were by
and large restricted to services --trade, commerce-- with relatively low financial requirements and fast
returns. This behavior of investors in the face of the reforms undertaken in the first phase and projected
in second phase of the PREF is indicative of a continued risk-aversion derived from the previous regime:
this aspect was minimized in the preparation of SAC 11. Only a sustained process of reforms could give
private investors the clear signal of a radical change in the economic climate. Instead, the delays in
implementation of SAC 11 were more likely to have yielded an impression of hesitancy toward further
reforms on the part of the authorities. In the absence of significant new private investments, the growth
performance may be best explained by the significant flows of external financial assistance and weak
domestic monetary policy which helped sustain a high level of internal demand at the cost of a slower
than expected decline in inflation.
25.    The average annual inflation rate decreased from 27.4 percent in 1988 to 19.4 percent in 1990,
well above the inflation level of Guinea main trading partners which was estimated at 4.1 percent for that
year. Inflation decreased slowly to 16.6 percent by 1992. The improvements in monetary management
and liquidity control in 1993 contributed to reducing the inflation rate to 7.1 percent, the last year of the
program, and to 4.1 percent in 1994. Between 1987 and 1989, the real effective exchange rate increased
by about 15.5 percent. A more appropriate exchange rate policy by the BCRG on the weekly foreign
exchange auction starting in 1990 yielded a level of the real effective exchange rate within +/- 5 percent
of its 1987 level over the period 1990-1993.
26.   In 1988, the fall in mining exports and a surge in private imports led to a worsening of the
external current account balance to -9.7 percent of GDP. As a result, the level of available reserves
dropped to 5.8 weeks of private non-mining imports in 1988. By 1989, a leveling of the import volume
and better mining exports helped boost the level of net foreign reserves to 12.5 weeks of private non-
mining imports and to 16.7 weeks by 1990, thereby meeting the program target. Despite the decline in
mining exports starting in 1991, the level of net reserves increased to the equivalent of over 20 weeks of
private non-mining imports, an increase made possible in part by debt rescheduling with the Paris Club.
12    Credit No. 2148-GUI.



8
27.   The reduction of the external current account deficit to less than 4 percent of GDP was not
achieved despite the continued low level of non-mining private investments: over the period 1988-93,
non-oil non-mining private imports volume grew at an average of 3.2 percent per year as compared to an
average growth of non-mining GDP estimated at 4.3 percent per year. The low elasticity of private
imports to GDP contributed to improvements in the external current account toward the target of 4
percent of GDP until 1992 when the full brunt of the fall in alumiunum prices --and consequently bauxite
prices-- was felt on the exports while investment-related imports by mininig companiies remained high.
The current account balance (including public transfers) worsened from -4.6 percent of GDP in 1991 to -
7.8 percent in 1992 and -7.0 percent in 1993.
28.    Fiscal Performance. The mobilization of non-mining reveniles improved over the period of
implemenitation of SAC II: between 1988 and 1993. non-mininiig fiscal revenues increased from 5.7
percent to 8.8 percent of non-mining GDP and from 4.5 percent to 7.1 percent of total GDP. As a result.
60.9 percent of total revenue originated in the non-miniing sector in 1993 ver.sus 32.8 percent in 1990: a
full third of this relative increase is the direct consequLence of the fall in mining revenues after 1990. The
performance was uneven: increases in non-mininig revenues accelerated from 1989 to 1992 but dropped
in 1993 and non-mining revenues failed to compensate for shortfalls in mining revenues. Fiscal revenues
at the end of 1993 reached merely 1 1.6 percent of GDP instead of the 14 percent target of the program:
as a reference points, the equivalent ratio in 1992 was 19.5 percent in The Gambia, 16.5 percent in
Mauritania, 21.7 percent in Mozambique, 17.6 percent in Tanzania and 14.6 percent in Senegal. The low
overall fiscal pressure in Guinea and the weakening of the performance in 1993, after the release of the
second tranche, raises questions as to the commitment of the authorities to take the necessary steps to
improve domestic revenue mobilization and increase its share of the financing of the development effort.
Although the high informal contenit of the Guinean econiomy adds a measure of difficulty to the
collectionl of taxes, the same conditions can be found in above-mentioned countries which have done far
better. Numerous cases of lax enforcement of the tax collection power of the State can lead to a certain
skepticism as to whether the necessary political will existed to identify all potential taxpayers and ensure
the collection of taxes owed. The case of the Taxe Sp&iale sur les Produits Petroliers is particularly
illuminating in this respect: blatant fraudulent sales of petroleum products have contributed to collection
rates significantly below even conservative projections. Direct taxes represent only I percent of non-
mining GDP of which a significant amount originates from the salaries paid to civil servants. Despite
improvements supported by significant technical assistance to the Customs Directorate and the Tax
Directorate, the results can be considered poor.
29.    The shortfall of revenues equivalent to 2.4 percent of GDP had to be compensated for by cuts in
expenditures. Procedures have been put in place for the execution of the budget and its monitoring but
lapses in procedures persist and weaken control over expenditures. Centralized control by the Minister
of Finance over debt contracting is part of the aniual Loi de Finance but signed financing agreements are
not always reported in a timely fashion to the Debt Division of the Budget with consequent temporary
problems in the programming of debt service. Control over expenditures tended to be asserted at a late
date in the year in reaction to the need to meet fiscal targets with the Fund. The inefficiency of this
approach and its inherent costs became apparent and the Comitn de Suivi des Finances Publiques was
created in late 1992 to monitor more closely the evolution of the situation of the Treasury and to
recommend corrective actions ahead of time. But this control over public expenditures is vitiated by the
fact that the act of committing an expenditure does not occur at the time when the order for goods and
services are made but rather wvhen the invoice is received: in times of tight cashflow, the control over
expenditure, so to speak, consists in not committing expenditures already incurred and therefore in an
accumulation of internal arrears.



9
30.    Pressures from a disgruntled civil service under a severe restructuring program and low salaries
exploded in violent street demonstrations in 1991. To quell this discontent in the growing calls for
political opening, public salaries were almost doubled in real terms between late 1991 and early 1992.
Coming on top of other public wage increases in the late 1990, this last general increase in public wages
combined with loose procedures for promotion and increases in personnel resulted in a 48.8 percent
share of salaries in current expenditures in 1993 up from 21.7 percent in 1987: in other terms. 39.9
percent of government revenues were used to pay salaries in 1993 against 15.7 percent in 1987. In 1993,
the combination of debt service and salaries represented 63 percent of current expenditures. As these
items can only be cut with great difficulty and costs in the medium term, cuts to compensate the
shortfalls in revenues were borne by other operating expenditures and to a lesser extent by the PIP.
31.    The Public Investment Program (PIP) was cleaned from most uneconomic projects in the late
1980s and put in the context of a three-year rolling programming of investments. Priority was been
given to projects financed under concessional loans from multilateral and bilateral donors and the design
of the PIP was done in consultation with donors. To eliminate bottlenecks to the development of private
investments, priority had been given to the rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure, of the electric
power system and telecommunications. Despite the provision of technical assistance from a number of
sources, the design of the PIP and the evaluation of its execution continued to suffer from the weak
technical and management capability of the Direction Nationale des Investissements Publics although
improvements were registered, notably in the information system for management of the PIP. Since
1993, however, an erosion in the management of the PIP has been noticeable: the annual presentation has
become deficient in key information; a number of "decentralization" projects with strong political
overtones has been included; and an increasing divergence has been appeared in sectoral allocations
between donor financing and local resources. In addition, the fiscal crisis may have intensified the
practice of funding current expenditures through capital expenditures.
32.   The inability to fully compensate for the greater than expected fall in mining revenues prevented
the projected reduction of the budgetary deficit. Although the deficit (excluding grants) had been
expected to improve from around 7.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to 4.9 percent in 1993, it remained above
7.5 percent of GDP over the period. The precariousness of government finances is put in evidence by the
evolution of the primary balance'3 (including mining sector) which started at 2.1 percent of GDP in 1988,
passed to a peak of 3.6 percent in 1990 to fall gradually to 1.8 percent in 1993.
33.    Consolidation of Market Reforns. Most prices, with the exception of public utilities, petroleum
products, rice and fish, had been freed in the first phase of the PREF. In the second phase of the program
supported by SAC 11, the Government undertook to reform pricing mechanisms in the remaining
controlled sectors to have price reflect more closely true costs and market-determined values. For
petroleum products prices, prior to the privatization of the import and distribution, an automatic price
adjustment formula was introduced. In utilities, prices have been set close to true cost and are reviewed
regularly. The price of rice now reflects market conditions with the introduction in late 1992 of a
formula for full cost pricing of imports under food aid. Although the government by an old ordinance
can control the price of fish, in practice this ordinance is no longer enforceable and the price of fishi is
market-determined.
34.    Although the so-called "foreign exchange auction system" is closer in practice to a managed
float, the BCRG has been careful to use the developments on the parallel market as guidelines in the
13     Current revenues minus non-interest current spending and domestically-financed investments.



10
determination of the exchange rate while accommodating most foreign exchange needs: as a
consequence, with few exceptions related to political shocks, the premium on the parallel market never
exceeded 10 percent. The BCRG in 1992 authorized the opening of formal private exchange bureaus,
thereby lifting some of the restrictions on parallel market transactions. Foreign capital movements
remained regulated but increasingly loosely. Mandatory 25 percent deposits for imports were eliminated
in 1990 thus eliminating the remaining restriction on foreign trade. Real interest rates on deposits
became positive in 1991. The process of reforms in the foreign exchange market and financial sector
continued after the end of the program: in 1994, lending rates restrictions were lifted, the BCRG
removed the remaining restrictions on foreign currency accounts and the exchange rate became
determined through a daily interbank foreign exchange market.
35.    Reform of Ithe Civil Service. This component of the program included a continuation of the
previously initiated efforts to test civil servants and decrease their numbers through voluntary departure
and the set-up of a central computerized payroll file at the Ministry of Finances. In late 1988, the
Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service (MRAFP) was created to institutionalize the civil
service reform process. Two departments within the MRAFP and a department within each ministry
with links to the MRAFP were created to address issues of institutional organization, management and
skill development. With the assistance of outside consultants, the personnel rolls were finally cleaned up
and reconciled with the payroll prior to the merging of the manual payment system into the new
computerized system in 1992. With this operation, new procedures were set up which were to ensure
budget control over the wage bill and monthly reconciliation of unified wage bill with the personnel
rolls.
36.    By improving the flow of information, the reforms resulted in savings on the wage bill of about
10 percent through the elimination of unjustified wage payments. But the existence of a tool for
information and control of the civil service did not ensure proper management which remains deficient.
Hiring decisions are not made within the framework of an assessment of needs but as an ad-hoc response
to demands, often with a political context. In 1993, for example, hiring of civil servants accelerated
without any consideration of the need for 600 additional primary school teachers. Promotions are
granted without the respect of the established procedures with the result of all almost total inversion of
the civil service hierarchical pyramid: the share of personnel in the management category increased from
26.9 percent to 29.7 percent of total public administration personnel between June 1992 and December
1993 and the share of administrative and technical personnel increased from 37.4 percent to 39 percent'4.
The attention paid by the Fund and the Bank to the wage bill and indirectly to the size of the civil service
has led Guinean authorities to hire under the category of "temporary personnel" which did not appear in
the wage bill. The Government had put at the disposition of the MRAFP in 1991 some 5,000 civil
servants without clear job description for later reassignment and in mid- 1995 the resolution of the status
of these civil servants is still pending. The relations between the DAAF of each ministry and the
MRAFP seem to be extremely formal and not at all of a nature conducive to the development of actual
personnel management procedures. In summary, although the reforms under SAC 1I have resulted in
more reliable information about the evolution of the civil service, procedures for the management of the
civil service --other than the respect of a predetermined envelope for the wage bill-- have yet to be
14     The inverted structure of the public administration personnel is even more starkly put in evidence once the
Ministry of Pre-University Education and Professional Training, with its large number of teachers in the mid-level
category is excluded: in the rest of the public administration in late 1993, management represented 34 percent of
total personnel, administrative and technical personnel 28.9 percent, support staff 20.4 percent and personnel under
contracts 16.7 percent.



II
implemented: this conclusion is particularly true with regard to the skill profile of the agents of the civil
service.
37.    Public Enterprise Reform. In the second phase of the PREF, operations of privatization
focused on key public monopolies in water, power, and oil distribution sectors: progress was made
possible through the support of a number of investment projects. In both water and electricity, the
government invited private companies to bid for the operations of the state-owned assets. Since 1990,
the water company is operated by a private company. The electricity company was initially granted a
greater autonomy and managed under a technical assistance contract as a preparation for the take-over of
the operations of generation and distribution which took place in June 1994. In October 1992, the
Government liquidated the state-owned oil company and completed a full privatization program with
individual oil companies competing in a free market. After issuing new legislation regarding the
autonomy of public enterprises, the Government in 1993 enacted new legislation regarding the
privatization of state enterprises to ensure rational and transparent privatization procedures. The office
of telephone was transformed in 1992 into a limited liability telecommunication company in preparation
for its privatization in 1994. In 1992, a bauxite mining venture with the former Soviet Union was also
transformed into an autonomous state enterprise, SBK, and Guineani authorities are looking for a private
partner. On some other fronts however, notably with regard to the urban transportation company,
SOGETRAG, and the national airline company, Air Guinee. progress has been very slow.
38.    Poverty Issues. The revitalization of the social sectors was a key feature of the program and was
to be supported by and SDA project, a health project and an education sectoral adjustment credit. New
policies were adopted which emphasized the priority to be given to primary education and primary health
care. Despite still very weak management capacity in these sectors, significant progress was achieved in
shifting staff to priority functions, monitoring developments and enforcing standards as for example
regarding school buildings. The dialogue on specific issue at the sectoral level has improved and a better
understanding of the issues reached. A main constraint has been the weak fiscal performance which has
prevented the allocation of sufficient funds to the sectors: the situation was particularly critical in health
which suffered a real drop in available budget resources in 1992. As a result. the allocation to these
sectors on a per capita basis remain well below the amounts that would be necessary to improve very
poor indicators and in many categories even below the average for sub-Saharan Africa.
39.    Despite progress registered in the development of the statistical and analytical instruments
needed to tackle the poverty issue, the design of new social policies has failed to materialize. Although
an Interministerial Committee for Social Policies was created as a conduct for the consideration of social
issues in broader policy and to help guide social policies, it never became operational. A main cause of
the slow progress in the development of social policies in Guinea can be found in the as-yet incomplete
macroeconomic stabilization of the economy and the continued fiscal difficulties. As a result, policy-
making tends to be framed in the short term as a response to crises and consideration of longer term
issues gets pushed back.
40.    Sustainability. Under the second phase of the PREF supported by SAC 11, further progress has
been made toward transforming the Guinean economy into a market economy. The prospects of the
Guinean economy remain nevertheless uncertain and depend largely on continued progress in the
management of the economy. The slow implementation of reforms under SAC II, the disappointing low
level of domestic revenue mobilization, the misapplication of procedures of expenditure control, the
apparent erosion in the management of the PIP and the persistent problems in the management of the
civil service raise question as to whether the growth performance of the country can be sustained, much
less accelerated. The saw-tooth pattern of adjustment over the last years, with short periods of intense



12
reforms prior to program deadlines followed by longer periods of backsliding, is not only costly in
political and economic terms but puts in question whether Guinean authorities are truly committed to the
adjustment program and would pursue reforms in the absence of external pressures.
41.    Borrower Performance. The Economic and Financial Coordination Committee (CCEF), a
political steering committee composed of cabinet members, had been established at the onset of SAC I to
facilitate the decision-making and monitoring process. Despite its restructuring in 1988. the CCEF
lacked the technical capacity to conduct policy analysis or monitor the implementation of decisions. A
"cellule technique" was created with the support of PAGEN 11 to serve as a technical secretariat to the
CCEF and remedy these weaknesses and allow better management of the program. The existence of this
technical unit and its staffing greatly improved the dialogue at a technical level but it did very little to
resolve the political bottlenecks at the decision-making levels.
42.    Bank Perfornmance. At least 11 7 staffweeks (not including resident mission time) were spent on
supervision of SAC 11 of which around 100 staffweeks by staff in the Country Operations Division.
AFICO. It is likely that these figures underestimate total staff inputs to supervision, since staff work on
other projects, especially PAGEN 11, and Resident Mission staff contributed to the structural adjustment
process. Given the long delay in meeting second tranche release conditions, staff inputs were spread out
over 54 months'5 rather than 36 months as anticipated. A consequence of this delay was the loss of staff
continiuity during implementation, as no fewer than five task managers had responsibility for SAC 11
supervision.
43.    Disbursement and Procurement. Disbursements under the IDA credits were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure with evidence that the funds were used for eligible imports. Disbursements
were extremely slow, due largely to the delays in meeting the conditions for second tranche release.
44.    Reporting and Auditing. In conformity with the Development Credit Agreement, the
Governmenit provided reports on progress in implementing the adjustment program prior to supervision
missions and the required periodic exchange of views with the Bank. The financial audit of SAC 11
accounts for the first tranche through December 1990 was completed in May 1991 and submitted to the
Bank in August 1991. No important errors in disbursement requests were noted. The audit for the
second tranche, however, has been requested by letters'6 and reminders of the obligations of the borrower
under the Credit Agreement included in aide-memoires: in late 1994 the Government submitted a short-
list of firms for the audit which received a non-objection from the Bank.
F.     CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS OF SAC II
45.    Conclusions. The delays in effectiveness and in second tranche release point to serious
problems in implementation of SAC 11. Although signs of a weakening commitment to pursue forcefully
the adjustment program became evident throughout 1987, the release of SAC I second tranche in early
1988 was taken as a sign of renewed commitment and led to what in hindsight turned out to be a too
' 5    See Annexe A.
16     By letter of October 27, 1993, the Minister of Finance had been alerted to the obligation to submit an audit
for expenditures financed under the Credit by December 31, 1993. The letter announcing the formal closing of the
credit dated April 22, 1994 included a reminder of the obligations of the borrower to submit to the Association a
certified audit of expenditures financed under the Credit as well as its evaluation of the implementation of the
program. The authorities were reminded of these legal obligations during the 1994 Annual Meeting and in an aide-
memoire in December 1994.



13
optimistic assessment of the progress which could be achieved under SAC I. Furthermore, as a
financing gap of US$ 80 million was projected for 1988 and 1989, the urgency of gap-fill financing to
preserve past gains and macroeconomic stability also contributed to insufficient attention being given
during the preparation of SAC 11 to the strength of Government commitment to the reform program. In
this context, the concurrent existence of two adjustment operations, SAC 11 and the Private Sector
Promotion SECAL, alleviated the pressure on public finances. This may have contributed to the delays
experienced in the implementation of the reforms under SAC I.
46.    The program supported by SAC 11 was overly ambitious as it encompassed almost all elements
of economic management. Rationalization of civil service management, mobilization of resources,
public enterprises reforms and further progress in the legal and institutional incentive framework are all
necessary elements to achieve sustained growth in a market economy. However, given the weak
institutional capacity of the country, it was unlikely that such a broad program of reform could be
successfully implemented simultaneously. In particular, the feasibility of achieving sustainable reforms
in civil service management within the time frame of the program was highly questionable. However, in
view of the prospects of decreasing mining sector revenue, the mobilization of domestic fiscal resources
should have been given higher priority. Thus, the program failed to prioritize the reforms areas
according to their feasibility within the given timeframe and their urgency.
47.    The nature of the tranche release conditions was not conducive to effective implementation of
the program as they were overwhelmingly based on the promulgation of measures rather than on
outcomes. Implementation of the measures did not necessarily follow. As an example, although the
condition of the creation of a central corporate taxpayer file was fulfilled in 1991, the lack of significant
improvement in the performance in the collection of corporate taxes led Bank and Fund missions in 1993
and 1994 to require the updating of the file and the creation of a corporate tax unit within the Tax
Directorate. Conditions were also biased toward expenditure reduction rather than the broader aspect of
improved management of the civil service and of state finances. Thus, the tranche release conditions did
not represent effective benchmarks for measuring progress toward program objectives.
48.    This discrepancy between the objectives and the benchmarks set in the condition leads to a
somewhat ambiguous assessment of SAC 11. On the one hand, since all coiiditions were eventually' met,
SAC 11 could be considered a success, though a qualified one as the delays in implementation in all
likelihood weakened the impact of the program. On the other hand, an evaluation of the situation in
Guinea at end-1994 presents by and large the same characteristics as those prevailing in 1988, namely
low domestic revenue mobilization, weak a priori expenditLire control, an inefficient civil service and, as
evidenced by the persistent low rate of private formal investments, an unsatisfactory incentive
framework. Measured by these criteria, the impact of SAC II would be assessed as marginal.
49.    Weak management capacity was identified as a risk for the implementation of the SAC 11-
supported reform program. As the weak capacity was considered to be largely technical in nature, the
problem was addressed through the preparation of a parallel technical assistance project, PAGEN 11
(Credit 1963-GUI), the signature of which was a condition for SAC II effectiveness. However,
according to its project completion report, PAGEN 11 itself suffered from implementation problems
caused by factors such as too broad a spread of activities and too many financing sources. Under this TA
operation, technical assistants largely substituted themselves to their Guinean counterparts to design the
measures necessary to fulfill tranche release conditions with little resulting improvement in the
institutional capacity of the Government. More fundamentally, the experience of SAC 11 shows that
technical assistance cannot be a palliative for weak Government commitment to the reform program



14
50.    The sustainability of some of the reforms remains doubtful. The weakening of the mobilization
of non-mining revenues in 1993 as compared to 1992. the continued deficient management of the civil
service despite the existence of management tools and the erosion evident in the quality of presentation
of the PIP give cause for concern that some of the gains of the program cannot be sustained without
continued pressures from the international community.
51.    Lessons. Four lessons may be drawn from SAC 11. First, SACs can be powerful instruments for
supporting policy reforms. However, SACs generally have the dual objective of supporting ambitious
new reform programs as well as bridging existing or emerging financing gaps, thus preserving
macroeconomic stability and past reform gains. In the case of weak or uncertain commitment to reform
as in Guinea, the need to achieve a proper balance between gap-filling and implementation of targeted
reforms becomes of overriding importance for the success of the program. Gap-filling without
significant adjustment only increases the country's debt burden with little long-term economic gains.
52.    Second, the reforms supported must be properly sequenced and must be achievable within the
time frame of the program. By these criteria, the reform areas covered under SAC 11 should probably
have been reduced to domestic fiscal resource mobilization and government financial management,
which were both urgent areas of concern given the forecast decline in mining revenue. Although
important, civil service management reform --by its lesser immediate economic impact and its low
probability of significant sustainable progress under the timeframe of the program-- would not have been
included under the SAC but could have been the object of another credit. Similarly, public enterprise
reform is better pursued through instruments other than adjustment lending. By narrowing the focus of
the operation on a set of key interrelated issues, the risk of dispersion of scarce capacity would have been
lowered and the potential for better implementation improved.
53.    Third, the development of the reform program should be based on solid economic and sector
work to, inter alia, help define tranche release conditions in terms of outcomes rather than in terms of
promulgation of legal measures. In particular in cases where the level of Government commitment is
weak, the link between the adoption of measures and their effective implementation can be very tenuous.
54.    Finally, by offering alternative sources of quick disbursements, concurrent adjustment operations
can seriously affect the implementation of a reform program. Thus, in cases when more than one
adjustment operations are to be implemented within roughly the same timeframe, greater attention
should be given to the potential negative impact on the implementation of their respective reform
agenda.



15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank has formally requested that the Government of Guinea submit a Program Completion
Report by letter dated April 22,1994. The Government informed the Bank verbally that efforts to
produce the Report were underway. The Government's assessment is unlikely to differ from that
contained in Part 1, since it generally reflects the dialogue between both parties during the SAC 11 period.






17
ANNEX A: BASIC CREDIT DATA






19
TABLE A-1: RELATED CREDITS INFORMATION
Credit Name        Credit No.                  Purpose                   Approval   Closing
Preceding Operations  |_|_| __ |_                                                                 |
SAC I   1659-GUI       Exchange Rate, Financial Sector, Civil  02/11/86   12/31/88
SFA-AO 11             Service, Trade Reform
PAGEN I   1595-GUI           TA for Economic Management          03/14/85   06/30/90
Following Operations   _                                                      _          _ _ X
PAGEN 11  1963-GUI            TA for Economic Management          11/08/88   02/08/93
Private Sector Promotion   2148-GUI    Enhancement of the Incentive Framework    06/12/90   06/30/94
TABLE A-2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
First mention in files         February 18, 1987
Initiating Memorandum          January 11, 1988
Letter of Development Policy   April 7, 1988
Negotiations                   May 13, 1988
Board Approval                 June 16, 1988
Credit Agreement Signing       June 29, 1988
Effectiveness                  March 2, 1989
Original Credit Closing        December 31, 1990
Actual Credit Closing          December 31, 1993
E A-3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   Total
Original credit Amount         29.0    36.0                                          65.0
Actual disbursements           22.3      5.0                       29.1       7.3    63.7
Actual as Percent of Total    34.3%     7.7%                     44.8%    11.2%
Cumulative Total17             22.3    27.3    27.3    27.3        56.4     63.7
Cumulative Percent            34.3%    42.0%    42.0%    42.0%    86.8%    98.0%
Differences between original credit amount and actual disbursements are due to fluctuations in the
US$/SDR exchange rate over the disbursement period.



20
TABLE A-4: GUINEA SAC II DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ equivalent)
ltotal Disbursement by:
Date of
Disbursement     Amount          Bank Fiscal Year         Calendar Year
3/13/89      $3,330,553.4T      I
3/13/89      $8,674,31 1.02
3/13/89      $7,981,789.70
3/29/89        $984,598.64
3/30/89        $783,098.66
4/10/89        $548,514.52 FY89::1  $22,302,865.95
10/5/89      $4,497,394.54                       CY89:   $26,800,260.49
2/1/90        $526,421.26 FY90:1  $5,023,815.80 CY90:        $526,421.26
12/11/92      $1,113.856.00
12/11/92      $2,025,251.59     l
12/11/92      $3,196,002.15     l
12/11/92      $4,289,866.48
12/18/92       $102,257.88                        CY92:   $10,727,234.10
1/19/93      $6,097,242.82
1/29/93        $859,622.98
2/1/93       $6-,523,770.73
2/12/93    1    $94,224.35
4/26/93    j  $4,777,839.24 FV93:  $29,079,934.22
8/9/93       $1,954,170.51
9/20/93      $3,469,900.90
9/20/93      $1,720,000.00      1
9/23/93         $99,333.50 FY94:|  $7,243,404.91 CY93:   $25,596,105.03
l otal  $63,65U,0ZU.wX      j  bhM,IJ2IJ.#    -



21
TABLE A-5: BANK MISSION DATA
Activity      Monith/Year
Preparation       February 1988
Appraisal         March 1988
Negotiations      Mav 1988
Supervision I     May 1989
Supervision 11    January 1990
Supervision III    May 1991
Supervision IV    December 1991
Supervision V    July 1992
Supervision VI    March 1993
Supervision VII   September 1993
TABLE A-6: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
Preparation  ---------    Implementation----------------------
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    Total
LENP        6.2    32.0                                                                  38.2
LENA                 4.5                                                                  4.5
LENN                26.9                                                                 26.9
SPN                         33.3    16.3    12.3    20.7    32.2         2.8             117.6
PCR                                                                      7.1      9.2    16.3
Total       6.2    63.4    33.3    16.3    12.3    20.7    32.2          9.9      9.2   203.5



TABLE A-7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Subjects                                     Expected Date                 Actual Date
Adoption of the revised organizational structures for the Central       August 1988                      1990
Administration.
Promulgation of the legal texts: (i! ending on 12/31/88 the            D)ccember 1988               December 1988
administrative reserve status and eligibility to the voluntary
departure schemne of public enterprise employees currently on  I
administrative reserve: ii) defining the severance package to be
extended to employees who after testing or closure, restrUcturingo,
privatization of public enterprises wNill not be retained by the civil
service: (iii) extending the voluntary departure scheme to civil
servants vvishing to leave public employment prior to testing
Revision of the ariCele on cement production and import: (i)          Prior to end 1988           Septemiiber 29. 1988
elimiiination of proposed import licensing, anti-dumping tax on
imports and price controls: (ii) schedule for the elimination of the
import surtax on cement over a period of no more than 3 years
Ratitication of the new Joint venture petroleum company tS(iPt   T   December 22. 1988                Waived for
agreement                                                                                         cf'fectiveness, met in
1992
Promulgation of(i) the Public Procuremiienit Code and (ii) the      (i) December 22. 1988        Waiver for Publication
Giiinean General Accounting la%%                                    (ii) September 1. 1988
Application of full cost pricing formula for imported food aid rice       Jine 1988                  June 4. 1988
Signature of proposed Second Economic Managemiient Support             September 1988               November 1988
project
IEnactmeint of financial regulations and procedures gooverning              1988                         1990
central government financial transactions
Adoption of a Public Investment Program for 198911991                  December 1988             adopted for 1990/1992
Enactment ol'the 1989 budget: public accounting systemn in plice:    January-March 1989                  1990
report on execution of' 1 988 btidget.
Adoptio n ofwnew organizational strtictures for the decentralized           1989                   confirmed in 1990
deparimenit of the administrationi
For all ministries (except teachers from Ministry of Education): (i)  July-November 1988        testing completed at end
completion of testing and selection process: (ii) confirmation ol'                                       1988
selected stat'l Iiii) transfer of non-selected staff to the severance
schemie
Creation of cenitral payroll service at the Ministry of Finance and         1990                  First part met in 1991
of a permanent mechanism for the monitorinig and control of                                    and the second part met
personinel rolls and wvage bills                                                                   in October 1992
Fstablishment of a central corporate taxpayer file on the basis of a     Mid-1989                   First inventory
censuis of corporate taxpayers                                                                     completed in 1991
Law governing the relations between the borrower and its public   Basic principles: June 1988       Mareh I11 1991
enterprises                                                        Loi-Ctadte March 1989



2 3
ANNEX B: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS






25
TABLE B-1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
I9N1    19S9    199U    1991   1992    1993    1994
CiDP, Billion Current GNF                    1131.1  1438.9  1860.5   2248  2682.7  3036.3  3315.6
Real Growth Rate                              6.3%    4.0%    4.3%    2.4%    3.0%    4.7%   40.0%
as % of GDP current prices
Gross Investment               17.1%   17.2%   17.5%   16.5%   16.5%   16.2%   13.6%
Public Investment   8.2%    8.3%    9.2%    7.8%    7..5%    7.1%    6.1%
Private Non-Mining Investment   7. 1%    7.8%    6.4%    5.9%    5.8%    5.8%    6.0%
Domestic Savings                4.4%    8.3%    8.4%    8.2%    4.2%    5.5%    4.4%
Public Savings  -2.1%   -0.7%    0.4%   -0.4v"   -0.5%   -0.4%   -1.1%
Private Non-Mining Savings  -4.2%   -4.1%   -3.9%   -2.8%   -3.6%   -1.7%    0. 0%
as % ot GDP current prices
Government Revenue               14.4%   15.5%   15.8%   14.7%   13.5%   11.6%   10.4%
Government Expenditure             24.4%   24.1%   24.6%   22.9%   21.3%   19.1%   17.5%
Deficit, excluding grants         -10.0%   -8.7%   -8.8%   -8.2%   -7.8%   -7.5∞ o  -7.2%
Deficit, including grants         -6.0%   -5.0%   -5.2%   -4.6%   -3.5%   -3.8%    3.6%
ExportsGrowth                 -5.2%   20.0%   11.7%   -3.3%  -16.9%    1.2%   -5.9%
Imports Growth                20.7%   -2.8%   23.2%    1.6%    0.7%   -1.3%   -6.3%
Current account, excl. off. transf./GDP     -12.7%   -8.9%    9.1%   -8.3%  -12.3%  -10.7%   -9.3%
Current account, incl. off. transf./GDP      -9.2%   -4.9%   -5.5%  -46.0%  -78.0%  -70.0%   -5.7%
As % of Exports of (oods
Debt Service before Rescheduling      47.4%   33.7%   32.2%   33.2%   31.9%   28.7%   41.7%
Interest  17.5%   13.6%   12.4%   11.7%   10.6%   10.2%   12.3%
Principal  29.9%   20.1%   19.8%   21.5%   21.3%   18.5%   29.4%
Debt Service after Rescheduling       43.6%   29.6%   32.2%   33.2%   21.4%   28.7%   41.7%
Interest  16.9%   11.4%   12.4%   11.7%    7.3%   10.2%   12.3%
Principal  26.7%   18.2%   19.8%   21.5%   14.1%   18.5%   29.4%
Net Available Reserves in weeks ot Private
Non-Mining Imports                              5.8    12.5    16.7    20.2    20.6       26    25.8
Consumer Price Index, Percentage Change      27.4%   28.3%/o  19.4%   19.6%   16.6%    7.10%   4.1 %
Real Effective Exchange Rate (1987=100)       110.3   115.5   103.2   107.5    96.7   102.9    98.5
Terms of Trade. Percentage Change           -10.8%   10.0%    1.3%   -6.3%  -11.5%   -6.1%   -4.5%















I M AG I NG
PFport No:        151I6; 4
Type  F'C,P



