Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmcAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-4805-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 47 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 24, 1988
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Average, Guinean Francs per US Dollar)
1986      GF 345
1987      GF 428
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDF           African Development Fund
CBG            Compagnie de Bauxite de Guin4e
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Francet
CCEF           Comite de Coordination Econdmique et Financier
EMSP           Economic Management Support Project
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MID            Ministry of Interior and Decentralization
MPCI           Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
MRAFP          Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program
OECF           The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SJF            Special Joint Financing



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLI
-  i)-
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page
PART I - THE EC.ONOMY
Background      .........        ............ ..........**.  1
The Economic and Financial Reform Prograr3...............  3
Economic Performance and Current Issues .................  9
PART II -  THE GOVE2NMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Consolidation of the Market-oriented Economic System .... 12
Strengthening the Management of the National Economy .... 15
Sector Strategies ....... ............. .. .... ........  22
social Policy .......... ................. .....................   23
PART III - ECONOMIC AND FINANCAL IDMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM
Projected Medium-Term Prospects for Growth .............. 25
External Financing Requirements .....................    27
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Objectives and Description .............. .... ............ 31
Monitorable Actions and Conditions for Tranche Release.. 31
Financing ...... ................. .. ....... .......... 33
Coordination with the IMF .............................. . 34
Credit Administration and Management ..... ........ ......  34
Procurement and Disbursement .................. ...........  35
Benefits and Risks ............. ....... ............... . .. . .. 35
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY .................. 36
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ..    .......     .................. ........ . 39
ANNEXES
ANNEX I   -    Social Indicators
ANNEX II  -    Economic Indicators
ANNEX III -    Supplementary Loan Data
ANNEX IV  -    Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
ANNEX V   -    Development Policy Statement and Policy Matrix
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc Performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discled without Wodd Blank authorization.



- ( ill) -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrowert           Republic of Guinea
Amounts:            IDA Credit; SDR 47 million
Termss              Standard IDA with 40 years' maturity
Cofinancins:        African Development Funds UA 10 million (US$12 million
equivalent); Government of Japan: Yen 1,000 million
(US$7.9 million equivalent) OECF credit and Yen 425
million (US$3.3 mill.on equivalent) grant, to be
administered by IDA.
Protram
Descriptions        The Credit would support the second phase of the
Government's Economic and Financial Reform Program and
address key constraints on Guinea's meditum-term growth
potential. The objective of the Program is to achieve
an annual average GDP growth rate of about 4 percent
through 1993 while improving the internal and external
payments equilibria. The major elements of the program
are improvements in rublic finance management
(enhancement of revenues and control of expenditures);
further restructuring of the public enterprise sector;
measures to enhance the participation of the poor in
future growth and alleviation of the transitory costs
of adjustment; and creation of a better managed and
more effective civil service. The Government will
further reinforce the incentive system to favor the
private sector through appropriately flexible and
realistic exchange and interest rate policies within a
market-oriented price and trade regime. External debt
management will be strengthened. The Credit will
provide foreign exchange to finance non-military
imports.
Riskss              The principal risks associated with the proposed Credit



- (iV) -
are the uncertainty of international aluminum market
prices, the possibility that the Guinean adwinistration
would be unable to implement the program fully or in a
timely fashion, and resistance of interest groups
benefitting from the status quo. The risk arising from
administrative weakness will be offset by the provision
of technical assistance and training under an IDA
Economic Management Support Project prepared in
parallel with the Credit.
Estimated
Disbursemewts:       The Credit would be disbursed in two tranches over the
next 18 months. The first tranche of SDR 21 million
(US$29 million equivalent) would be available upon
effectiveness and the second tranche of SDR 26 million
(US$36 million equivalent) upon satisfactory progress
in implementing the program. Performance reviews would
be carried out before tranche release and at the end of
the program.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 47 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 47 million (US$65 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years' maturity to the Republic of Guinea to support the
second phase of the Government's structural adjustment program. The
African Development Fund (AfDF) would cofinance the program with UA 10
milfion (US$12 million equivalent).   Financing is also expected to be
provided from the Special Program of Assistance to Low Income Debt
Distressed-Countries. Japan would provide Yen 425 million (US$3.3 million
equivalent) in Special Joint Financing to be administered by IDA and Yen
1,000 million (US$7.9 million equivalent) in concessional OECF credits.
The European Community would also provide a grant of ECU 12 million (US$14
million equivalent) in parallel financing in support of the adjustment
program. Additional bilateral financing linked to the structural
adjustment program would be provided by Prance and the United States in the
amounts of FF125 million (US$23 million equivalent) and US$8 million
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in February 1984. Developments
since that period have been described in the President's Report (Report
No. 4162-GUI) to the Executive Directors on the First Structural Adjustment
Credit (January 1986) and the Policy Framework Paper presented in July
1987. The following section summarizes developments described in these
reports and updates the information on the performance of the Guinean
economy. Updated country data appear in Annex I1.
Backsround
3.        Guinea's agricultural, mineral and energy resources make it one
of Africa's richly endowed countries. Yet, per capita income in this
country of 5.6 million (1986) inhabitants is less than US$300 (1986),
placing it among the least developed countries as defined by the United
Nations. Living standards are uniformly poor, as reflected in key social



-2-
indicatorss life expectancy is 37 years, infant mortality is about 160 per
thousand, more than 80 percent of the population lacks access to safe water
and, 80 percent of the population is illiterate.
4.        In September 1958, Guinea became the first independent nation of
former French West Africa. From being a major exporter of agricultural
products at independence, Guinea's economy was transfurmed by the Aid-1970s
into that of a major bauxite exporter and a net food importer. The private
sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network of state enterprises in
all sectors of the economy. Urbanization accelerated as productive
activities and incomes were increasingly shifted from the rural to the
urban sector.
5.        Emphasis on state-led development did not achieve the desired
modernization and industrialization; the currency became increasingly
overvalued under pressure from the inefficient public sector and resulted
in serious misallocation of resources creating disincentives to exports;
the inability to mobilize domestic savings led to an increasingly heavy
debt burden; and, the dynamic ag;icultural sector retreated into
subsistence production. Throughout the 1958-84 period, the economy
prod"ced at levels well below potential due to inadequate producer
incentives and deteriorating physical infrastructure. Economic growth
remained below the rate of population increase of close to 3 percent per
annum, except in 1973-76 when activity was stimulated by expanding bauxite
operations. The economy became increasingly dualistic. The official
sector depended on bauxite exports for its income and functioned through an
elaborate system of administered prices linked to a highly overvalued
currency 1/ while the non-official sector, which derived its income from
clandestine exports and private transfers from abroad, was supplied largely
by smuggled or pilfered imports. Its scope expanded steadily as the supply
of goods imported through official channels became insufficient to meet
demand for foodstuffs and other essential goods. By the early 1980s, the
non-official sector satisfied about 80 percent of urban consumer demand and
virtually all demand for marketed consumer goods outside Conakry.
6.        The extended deterioration of Guinea's economy was reflected in
increasingly severe financial difficulties by the early 19808. The
financial position of the Government itself was eroded chiefly by poor
performance in the parastatal sector. Tax receipts and transfers from the
enterprises declined as the private sector grew to dominate consumer trade,
while budgetary subsidies to the enterprises expanded. The economy's
esternal position became unsustainable, chiefly the result of public
investment outside the mining enclave which failed to generate returns
adequate to service the associated external debt. Mounting debt service
obligations and private capital flight, unmatched by increments in capital
/1  The Guinean syli (GS) traded officially at 23 GSJ$US at the end of
1985 as against a parallel market rate of about 400 GSI$US.



-3-
inflows, resulted in a continual rise in foreign liabilities of the Central
Bank and a massive accumulation of payments arrears amounting to o%er
US$300 million at end-1985.
The Economic and Financial Reform Program
7.        The military coup that brought a new regime to power on April 3,
1984 signalled a dramatic change in Guinea's political and economic
policies. In an effort to reverse the longstanding deterioration of the
economy and redress financial imbalances, the new leaders embarked in late
1985 on a series of ambitious economic and financial reforms supported by a
fi:st Structural Adjustment Credit including Special Joint Financing from
Germany and Japan, and cofinancing from Switzerland, France and the United
States. The reforms were further supported by two consecutive IM Stand-By
Arrangements and a first annual arrangement under the SAP.
S.        The overriding objective of the Government's program was to free
the economy from pervasive state controls and government intervention and
to put in place a policy framework supporting a market oriented economic
system. Specific measures to meet this broad objective were designed tos
Ci) correct the serious overvaluation of the currency; (ii) establish a
new, reliable banking system to replace the defunct state banks; (iii)
decontrol prices; (iv) liberalize internal and external trade; (v)
introduce institutional reforms to promote private sector savings and
investment; (vi) reduce the scale and improve the efficiency of the public
sector by cutting employment levels and by withdrawing from cownercial and
industrial activity; and, (vii) reorient public investment towards
supporting the directly productive sectors.
9.        Honetarv and Banking Reform.  In a major reform in early 1986,
the Government replaced the overvalued currency with a unified rate,
reflecting the scariLt7 value of foreign exchange, thereby permitting the
efficient allocation of resources. First, on January 4, 1986, the exchange
rate for public sector transactions was raised from GS 23 to GS 3001$US
while a second window for private sector activities was established,
initially at the rate of GS 345/$US and subsequently subject to a weekly
auction. During January 1986, the Guinean franc (GF) replaced the syli as
Guinea's currency. Finally on May 30, 1986, the Central Bank unified the
two exchange windows, requiring the Government to purchase foreign exchange
at the rate determined at the weekly auctions, which henceforth became open
to all current account transactions of the private and parastatal sectors.
At end-1987 the rate of exchange stood at GP 440ISUS as against a parallel
market rate of about GF 495/$US. In 1987 the private sector financed about
US$120 million of imports of goods and services through the auction.
Seventy percent of these imports were financed from the Central Bank's
foreign exchange resources, which consist of tax revenues received from the
mining companies and balance of payments assistance obtained from the I[F,
IDA and cofinanciers.
10.       As part of the Government's overall reform, all six state banks
were closed at end-1985 and replaced with three new majority private



-4-
joint-venture banks. A fourth new comnercial bank was set up as a joint
venture with the French Crddit Lyonnais and has begun operations in early
1988. Branch banking was recently begun by BICI-GUI in ten provincial
centers.
11.       Prices and Marketing Policy.  The Government's objective in the
area of prices and marketing has been to reestablish a flexible and
coherent structure of domestic prices conducive to efficient resource
allocation and growth of national production. Prices for all goods other
than for imported rice and petroleum pro-ducts were decontrolled in 1986 and
the private sector was permitted to engage freely in all levels of internal
and external marketing. Furthermore, the state monopolies on long-distance
freight transport and freight storage and handling were abolished. These
measures had the result of unifying the official and parallel markets and
played an important role in the favorable supply response of the
agricultural sector.
12.       In view of the private sector's effectiveness in handling rice
imports and their marketing, the Governœent ceased to intervene in the
distributito  of rice while allowing conmercial importers to recover their
costs fully. Rice received under food aid and concessional imports
continues to be subject to the administratively determined wholesale price
although the Government has undertaken to review periodically the reference
price to ensure that it entails no subsidy. During 1986 to reflect the new
exchange rate, the wholesale price of imported rice was increased
substantially, from 20 Guinean Sylislkg to GP 80/kg and further to GF
100/kg. The Government has continued to periodically adjust the wholesale
price of imported food aid rice during 1987 and by early 1988, shipments
were selling at nearly FG 155kg. Following the devaluation, petroleum
product prices were increased four-fold to reflect international prices at
the prevailing exchange rate. Subsequently, a substantial increase in the
tax on petroleum products on December 31, 1987 resulted in an increase in
the retail price of nearly 80 percent from GP 140/liter to GF 2501liter.
13.       Tariffs for utilities and public services (water, electricity,
urban public transport and telecouma.ications) continue to be set
administratively with a significant cross-subsidy element as between users.
Despite some -.ecent increases designed to reflect higher input costs tariff
rates in most cases do not even cover variable costs. Water rates are
currently set at a level significantly below the variable cost of
production/distribution and given very low collection rates, the water
utility survives only thanks to a Government subsidy of GF 500 million,
representing 80 percent of its cash revenues. With significant increases
in electricity tariffs during 1986-87 and improvements in billing and
collection rates, the electricity company required no budgetary operating
subsidies in 1987. However, the increase in the tax on petroleum products
announced in January 1, 1988, will result in financial losses unless rates
are adjusted to reflect the higher input costs. Urban public transport
tariffs do not fully cover operating costs requiring a budgetary subsidy of
about GF 1.5 billion in 1987. The financial situation of the companies was



-5 -
further aggravated following the petroleum tax increase which was not fully
passed on to the consumers.
14.       Trade and Tariff Policy.  Import and export proceduzes were
radically simplified. All import licensing was abolished and replaced with
an import declaration, granted to all registered traders. While the forms
are filed with commercial banks, the Central Bank has retained the
authority for final approval for the purposes of the foreign exchange
auction, at times exercising administrative discretion in a process
designed to be automatic. Following the devaluation of January 1986, the
tariff regime was highly simplified and rates reduced. Imports have been
made subject to a rationalized tariff regime at low rates (base rate is 10
percent) and few exemptions, with a flat turnover tax of 10 percent as of
December 31, 1987, and surcharges of 20-40 percent for luxury goods.
Overall rates were reduced to compensate for the increase in the taxable
base and dampen inflationary effects of imports following the devaluation,
reduce tax evasion, and avoid excessive protection to import substituting
industries.
15.       Reform of the Legal/Institutional Environment.  In addition to
the policy reforms in the areas of exchange rate, banking sector
operations, prices and marketing, and trade and tariffs described above,
the Government has begun to establish a more coherent legallinstitutional
framiework to complete the incentive system supportive of efficient private
sector growtia. Three major ne' codess the investment, mining and petroleum
codes, have already been adopr;s.  The new Investment Code sets out the
broad guidelines for the legal and institutional framework applicable to
investments worthy of encouragement and provides for time-bound fiscal
Incentives designed to be neutral in their impact on production decisions.
The preparation of a customs code is also well advanced. Laws pertaining
to regulation of the banking sector and of commercial activity have also
been adopted.
16.       Administrative Reform.  The Second Republic inherited an
overstaffed, largely unskilled, underpaid and unmotivated civil service.
The primary objective of the Administrative Reform program Was to develop
an efficient and motivated public sector work force by reducing the number
of redundant and unskilled employees, improving the organization and
management of public agencies and upgrading the employment conditions of
remaining staff including granting significant salary increases.
17.       (1) Staff Reductions. At the time the reform was launched at
end-1985, a reduction of 20,000 staff by end-1986 was projected from an
initial stock of 88,000 public sector employees. This target proved to be
overly ambitious and unrealistic given the political sensitivity of the
proposed measures as well as the administrative requirements of putting in
place an adequate framework for implementing the reform with minimum social
disruption. While accomplishments have thus fallen short of expectations,
progress was made in staff reduction through the closure of some parastatal
enterprises and the liquidation of state banks. A transitory
administrative reserve status (disponibilit6 sp4ciale) was created under



-6-
uhich laid-off parastatal employees would continue, for a limited time, to
receive their salaries. The number of civil servants on active duty was
reduced by about 14,000 (or nearly 16 percent of the total public sector
labor force) almost entirely from the closed parastatals and the liquidated
banks and through the enforcement of the retirement age. Of these, 8,200
-- including 500 who resigned voluntarily from the administ-ation -- took
advantage of a voluntary departure scheme (d4nart volontarlt) and qualified
for significant severance payments equivalent to about 5 years' salary.
Those who did not take advantage of the voluntary departure scheme (about
5,800 employees) have remained in the transitory administrative reserve
status and continue to draw their base salary and the suppleme3tal
cost-of-living allowance (but not the transport allowance) at their
December 1987 salary levels, that is, without benefitting from the January
1, 1988 general salary increase.
18.       In an effort to ease the absorption of redundant civil servants
into the private sector, the Government crea:: Ad an employment advisory
service to provide donor financed technical assistance in the preparation
of bankable projects. Under this scheme the severance pay can be used as
downpayment to secure loans up to five times that amount so that departing
civil servants with worthy projects can have access to financial resources
up to the equivalent of 25 years' salary. By end-1987 nearly 1,400
requests for project financing had been filed, of which about 500 projects
had been submitted for bank financing. In addition, the public works
program in Conakry to improve drainage, traffic management and urban
infrastructure through labor-intensive operations was accelerated to
generate employment and further ease the transition process.
19.       (ii) Reoraanization of the Administration.  During the same
period work was begun with substantial UNDP assistance on defining the new
organizational structures (cadre organiaue) of the Government departments.
A program to match staff requirements to the available staff through the
staff evaluation, with termination of redundant staff and early retirement
was also put in place. Much of the conceptual work has been complete4 and
Implementation of the reform at the level of the central administration has
commenced. New organization charts have been adopted for 10 ministries
while an additional 20 are in various stages of preparation. Testing has
been conducted both across ministries for common skills (administrative
departments, secretaries, etc.) as well as vertically within given
ministries for function-specific know-how. In early 1988 the newly created
Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service (HRAFP) began updating
the civil service census. Initial results for the 21,000 civil servants of
the central administrative departments in Conakry indicated that 5 percent
of the staff should not have been on the payroll. The verification of
census results will continue as testing, reorganization and staff reduction
are pursued during the course of 1988.
20.       (iii) Salaries.  At the time the reform program was launched at
end-1985, the average civil service salary stood at FG 5,500 per month and
covered no more than one-third of average household expenditures.
Following the devaluation of the currency and the dramatic increase in the



-7-
prices of rice and petroleum products, the Government introduced a cost of
living and a transport allowance. With the increase in base salary by 80
percent in May 1986, average civil service pay, incluseve of allowances,
reached FG 16,400 (US$45) per month. Thus, the aver:age Guinean civil
servant earned in 1987 approximately 15 percent of remuneration received by
his Togolese and Beninese counterparts and less than 10 percent of that
earned by the Ivorian civil servant. While an increase in remuneration
levels is not a sufficient condition for promoting civil service
efficiency, in the case of Guinea it is clearly a necessary one. As of
January 1, 1988, civil service base salaries were increased by a further 80
percent and the transport allowance was doubled, resulting in a 60 percent
increase in the total remuneration received from FG 16,400 to FG 25,800
(US$60) per month. In addition, a decision was made to grant a premium of
PG 10,000 per month to those employees who have been tested and selected.
Nonetheless, despite recent increases in general salary levels, average
civil service salaries in Guinea remain low. Under these circumstances the
Guinean administration continues to be plagued by lack of motivation and
high rates of absenteeism.
21.       Parapublic Sector Reform.  The restructuring of the public
enterprise sector in Guinea is a sine aua non for the efficient utilization
of existing assets, the minimization of budgetary subsidies and transfers
and the increased responsiveness of the sector to the demands of the new,
liberal economic environment. Consistent with the economic orientations
adopted by the Second Republic, the Government decided to divest from all
but the essential service industries, utilities and existing joint-venture
mining companies. The Government also decided to accompany the divestiture
program, designed to reduce substantially the number of public enterprises,
by the restructuring and rehabilitation of tu.o few enterprises which will
remain in the its portfolio with a view to improving their performance.
The performance of these enterprises has generally been weak due to a lack
of clarity and consistency in their goals and in their relationship with
the central Government. At present, public enterprises are managed
essentially a3 departments of the central Government and are subject to
excessive controls which impede their operating efficiency. Moreover,
governmental supervision of these enterprises is diffused among sector
ministries (in charge of technical supervision), the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (in charge of fiL:ncial supervision) and the Ministry of Labor
(responsible for employment issues), resulting in the absence of a
coordinated approach.
22.       Notable progress was achieved despite the significant
difficulties encountered d'.e to a lack of adequate accounts, resistance
from parastatal staff, and to the absence of a legal liquidation framework
until the promulgation in November 1987 of the Ordonnance on Parastatal
Liquidation. Twenty industrial public enterprises have been privatized
since the begirnnig of 1986, 69 have been closed and are in an advanced
stage of liquidation, of which 33 were agricultural marketing centers
(EPCOA) and S banks. A further 79 enterprises, mainly commercial
parastatals are currently in iarious stages of privatization or



- 8 -
liquidation. Only 12 public enterprises of the nearly 180 in existence in
1986 are scheduled to remain in the public portfolio.
23.       While quantitative objectives were clearly met, the financial and
economic objectives of the program, i.e. the reduction of the debt burden
and the increases in public revenue through privatization were at times
lost in the process. Liquidation of closed enterprise assets has not
contributed in any significant manner to meeting the enterprises' debt
obligations. Some privatized public enterprises were also sold at
relatively low prices with generous grace periods, often without interest
and with long repayment periods. More importantly, the importance of
maintaining a competitive market environment to foster efficient production
was neglected in certain cases. New monopoly-rights (e.g. ENTAG, the
cigarette factorys BONAGUI, soft drink company; SIPECO, paint factory),
excessive protection (e.g. SOPROCIMENT, cement factory) and generous fiscal
holidays were granted. In these cases, not only have significant potential
tax revenues been foregone but economic efficiency objectives have also
been sacrificed.
24.       Public Investment Prograwmint.  Efficient economic growth in
Guinea will require complementing the liberal incentives framework with
significant medium term investments aimed at overcoming the serious
deficiencies in the country's infrastructure. The Government adopted its
first three-year rolling public investment program (PIP) for 1987-89 which
was presented to the first Consultative Group for Guinea in March 1987.
The PIP reflects the new, enlarged role accorded to the private sector and
places appropriate emphasis on the Government's role in rehabilitating
physical and human infrastructure and public services in support of the
private sector. Despite improvements since 1985, project preparation
continues to be of uneven quality. The sheer size of the public investment
program, the great number of projects in the portfolio, and the continued
weakness in economic and financial project preparation at the technical
ministries, is likely to stretch the Government's planning and
implementation capabilities until institutional capacity is strengthened.
25.       External Debt Policy.  Guinea's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term debt outstanding stood at US$1576 million at end-1985
(or more than 90 percent of GDP), including approximately US$280 million in
payments arrears. Faced with debt service obligations in 1986 of US$154
million, representing 30 percent of exports of goods and servAces, in
addition to its large stock of arrears, the Government requested the
rescheduling of its MLT debt with the Paris Club in April 1986.  At the
meeting with the Paris Club. the Government was asked to seek reecheduling
under similar terms from its non-Paris Club creditors. While the majority
of such official creditors were approached, no formal agreements have yet
been signed. The Government has, however, recently signed an agreement to
reschedule its debt to financial institutions, ifr-luding arrears on
short-term obligations. Case by case discussions have resulted in the
elimination of part of the outstanding commercial arrears and agreement to
reimburse the remainder in Guinean Francs. The Government has also taken
steps to review its debt to the Soviet Union. Finally, with debt service



- 9 -
ratios in excess of 30 percent over the medium term and an active
adjustment program in place, Guinea has qualified to benefit from the
recently created Special Program for Low Income Debt Distressed African
Countries.
26.       Starting in 1986, the Government decided to complement its
efforts to obtain debt relief with stricter controls on the contracting of
further debt. The Minister of Finance was designated as the sole person
authorized to undertake external obligations in the name of the Government
of Guinea. In addition, the Government agreed under the IMF Stand-By
Arrangement not to contract any new public loans with maturities of less
than 12 years. While the Government also undertook to respect its debt
service obligations in an effort to shore up its creditworthiness, it did
not comply with this undertaking and incurred external payments arrears in
1987. The continued weakness of administrative capacity in debt monitoring
and management which is partly responsible for the 1987 arrears, remains a
major handicap to the proper implementation of this policy decision to
remain current on its debt obligations.
27.       The Social Impact of Adiustment.  Government policy has been to
ensure that adjustment with growth is not pursued at the expense of equity.
While the main thrust of the adjustment program has been in favor of rural
producers, the Government adopted a number of transitional measures during
the first phase of the adjustment program in order to cushion its adverse
effects on vulnerable groups in urban areas. These included: (i)
additional payments to civil servants to compensate for the increases in
cost of living and transport resulting from the devaluation and the
increase in petroleum prices; (ii) continued payment on a temporary basis
of salaries to laid-off civil servants; (iii) voluntary departure bonuses
with access to loans at favorable rates for civil servants with bankable
projects; (iv) advisory services to the retrenched civil servants; and,
Cv) labor intensive work programs to create employment in Conakry funded in
part through IDA's Urban Project.
Economic Performance and Current Issues
28.       During the first phase of the adjustment program, Guinea adopted
much of the initial corrective measures needed to eliminate the distortions
inherited from the past and to restore financial stability.   These reforms
have yielded encouraging results. The economy grew by 6 percent in real
terms in 1987, implying an increase of over 3 percent in per capita income.
Specific area studies indicate an important supply response to relative
price changes in the agricultural zones, with the rehabilitation and
renewal of coffee plantations and the significant expansion in areas under
rice cultivation in the last two years. The private sector rapidly
replaced the operations of the state company, PROSECO, and producers have
reportedly received as mu-h as 80 percent of the Conakry fob price for
their coffee. Exports of coffee rose to nearly 7,000 mt in 1987 compared
to negligible amounts in 1985. The small-scale enterprise and services
sectors, principally construction, agroindustry, transport and trade, are
also exhibiting significant increases in their activities. Preliminary



- 10 -
results from an informal-sector survey undertaken by the Ministry of Plan
and International Cooperation point to a 50 percent increase in the
creation of informal businesses since early 1984 with the creation of as
many as 21,000 jobs in Coriakry alone. These supply responses reflect the
shift in the terms of trade away from the public sector towards the rural
and private industry and service sectors. While the record of measures
adopted in 1986-87 constitutes major progress, the underlying weaknesses of
the economy and the scale of adjustment needed to attain self-sustaining
growth are such that Guinea will continue to face a difficult transitional
period over the medium term.
29.       During the second phase of the adjustment program, Guinea's
external environment is likely to be difficult with a projected 24 percent
cumulative deterioration of its terms of trade from 1986 through 1993 (see
Annex II). The economy remains fundamentally vulnerable to adverse trends
in international bauxite and alumina markets. These sectors accounted for
85 percent of Guinea's total recorded merchandise export receipts in 1986
and 75 percent of the Government's budgetary receipts. Under the pricing
formula recently negotiated with the foreign partners in the Guinean
Bauxite Company (CBG), where bauxite exports are priced with reference to
weighted average prices prevailing in world alumina and aluminum markets in
the prior two years, and assuming relatively favorable off-take level of
10.7 million tons, CBG bauxite export earnings in 1988 are projected to
drop by about 13 percent to US$268 million as compared to 1987, and
government tax receipts by about 16 percent, or US$25 million, to US$133
million. Whereas bauxite export earnings in 1989 are expected to increase
to US$270 million and tax revenues to US$151 million on account of an
extraordinary payment of US$ 15 million that is being held in escrow,
export earnings and government revenues are projected to stabilize at
around US$265 million and US$132 million respectively for the period
1990-93.
30.       At international aluminum prices of US$1550/mt and off-take
levels of 7.2 million mt, bauxite export earnings would decline to US$210
million, while government tax revenues frot the company would drop to about
US$104 million, respectively one-half and one-third below the 1987 levels.
This alternative scenario illustrates the vulnerability of the Guinean.
economy to price changes beyond its control and highlights the pressing
need to augment and diversify non-mining revenues.
31.       Prospects for rapid replacement of projected losses of
bauxite-based public resources are limited in the short term. For
instance, the sustainability of the agricultural supply response will
depend critically on the rehabilitation of the country's severely
deteriorated transport network and the reconstitution of the private input
supply and marketing channels. Exports of commodities other than bauxite--
in particular palm kernels, coffee, gold and diamonds--can be expected to
increase significantly but only after improvements to the country's
infrastructure and the strengthening of the institutional arrangements
favoring exports. In the effort to compensate for the revenue shortfalls,
the country's tax base, which is currently heavily biased towards border



- 11 -
taxes, will need to be better balanced between domestic and )order taxes
through increased recovery of existing duties and sources of tax revenue
which require strengthening the tax and customs administrations.
32.       Guinea confronts the drop in export earnings and budgetary
revenue at a time when it needs additional resources to sustain the
structural adjustment process and to restore the country's phyeical infra-
structure. Transport infrastructure, the single most severe impediment to
output recovery at this time, has to be rebuilt almost entirely in order to
restore the links between the capital city and the interiir.  Power, water
and telecommunication networks need to be built up to reduce the structural
costs of investments and to meet the growing demands of the private sector.
33.       While the country's new banking sector has made progress towards
mobilizing domestic financial resources since its establisement in late
1985, it continues to be hampered by institutional weaknesses. Branch
banking has only recently begun, legal issues have not yet been fully
resolved to permit expansion of banking activities, and the Central Bank
continues to dominate the banking sector. The sector needs to be further
developed and expanded to facilitate intermediation and support the growth
of private sector savings and investment throughout the country.
34.       The Guinean administration is, at present, poorly equipped to
effectively manage a liberal, market-oriented economy. Public finance
management remains particularly weak both in expenditure control and in
revenue generation measures. Major efforts will be needed to enhance
Guinea's non-mining revenues, which were less than 2 percent of GDP in
1987, through stricter recovery of existing taxes and duties. Despite
significant improvements in investment programming and budgeting, the
project portfolio remains of uneven quality and physical and financial
execution and monitoring of projects are inadequate.  This is in large part
due to the weakness of institutional links among the technical ministries,
the Ministry of Plan and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Strengthening
the public administration's ability to support and service the
market-oriented economy requires, above all, the transformation of the
unskilled, underpaid, and unmotivated civil service inherited from the
previous regime, into a trained, motivated and effective cadre, responsive
to the needs of the private sector. At a more fundamental level, education
and vocational training demand an extensive overhaul if manpower skills are
to support a steadily expanding private sector and a lean, efficient public
administration.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT' S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
35.       The encouraging acnievements in the first phase of the reform
program notwithstanding, further measures to consolidate the adjustment and
to deepen the reform efforts are required. Under the second phase of the
reform program, the Government will pursue an adjustment strategy aimed at
achieving sustained growth of incomes and private investment over the
medium term. In this context, the Government considers growth of per



- 12 -
capita incomes as a necessary but not sufficient requirement for the
alleviation of poverty. Therefore the Government is committed to
implement, as an integral part of its structural adjustment program, a
comprehensive poverty alleviation etrategy aimed at fostering the
participation of the poor in the process of economic growth while
mitigating the transitional impact of adjustment for the most vulnerable
groups.
36.       The basic strategy adopted by the Government during the first
phase of the Economic and Financial Reform Program will be pursued with
specific measures designed to: (i) consolidate the market-oriented liberal
economic option; (ii) strengthen the management of the national economy;
(iii) rehabilitate the growth potential of key sectors and remove
infrastructural bottlenecks; and (iv) implement a comprehensive social
policy.
Consolidation of the Market-oriented Economic System
37.       While significant progress has been recorded since the inception
of the reform program in 1986 in the areas of (i) monetary policy; (ii)
trade and pricing policy; and (iii) in the creation of a rational legal and
institutional framework, these gains will be consolidated and deepened
during the second phase.
38.       Exchange rate and interest rate volicy.  The premium for foreign
exchange on the parallel market declined from over 20 percent of the
official rate in early 1987 to less than 15 percent at end-1987. During
the second phase of the adjustment prograw the Government is covaitted to
maintaining a flexible and realistic exchlnge rate by holding the
differential between the official and parallel market rate of exchange at
less than 10 percent, and ensuring unrestricted access of the private
sector to the weekly auction for the purposes of financing current account
transactions. While in the past the level of the exchange rate has
remained generally in line with macroeconomic targets, modifications will
need to be brought to the operations of the auction mechanism in order to
further improve the efficiency of foreign exchange allocations. The
current practice more closely resembles a weekly fixing, in the absence of
explicit criteria. Since all demand for foreign exchange has thus far been
fully met by Central Bank sales at the *agreed' weekly price, the rate
setting mechanism is not a true auction system. A study will be undertaken
to assist the Government in analyzing the shortcomings of current foreign
exchange auction practices and to recommend improvements to the functioning
of the system with a view to allocating foreign exchange more efficiently.
Improvements might include the incorporation of government demand for
foreign exchange into the total bids submitted to the auction, an
announcement by the Central Bank of the weekly foreign exchange to be
supplied, the presentation of proposed buying rates in smaller lots so as
to better reflect the demand, and added provisions to permit the private
sector to service its external debts through auction purchases.
Recommendations of the study will be reviewed in close consultation with



- 13 _
IF staff, and agreement reached on a timetable for the adoption of
specific reforms to the auction mechanism.
39.       The BankinR System.  While the new Guinean banking system is
making reasonable progress towards reaching the objectives of improving the
mobilization of financial resources and increasing the flow of credit to
the private sector, it continues to display a number of characteristics
which reflect the fledgling nature of the sector, including the improved
but still insufficient level of confidence in the banking system and the
absence of a legal framework for banking sureties. While private sector
deposits in the banking system have increased from FG 7 billion at end-1986
to FG 16.9 billion at end-1987 21 , implying an increase of 80 percent An
real terms, currency in circulation still comprises as much as 72 percent
of the money supply. The dominance of the Central Bank in the banking
system is, therefore, overwhelming; a position which is reinforced by the
retention of more than 50 percent of public enterprise deposits in the
Central Bank.
40.       Total domestic credit at end-1987 stood at PG 40.4 billion, or
only 7 percent higher than at end-1986, compared to a 6 percent real
increase in GDP and an estimated inflation rate of 33 percent. However,
the evolution of credit during 1987 had some positive features as credit to
the private sector more than doubled during the period from FG 11.2 billion
to FG 25 billion. Short-term credit for trade financing purposes
constituted the bulk of private sector credit. The reluctance of
commercial banks to undertake medium and long-term lending, other than
through donor financed lines of credit, reflects in part general risk
aversion resulting from their limited experience with the Guinean market as
well as from the absence of a legal framework for banking sureties.
41.       The performance of the banking system, as measured in terms of
the increased deposit base and the higher levels of credit to the private
sector, showed notable improvements in 1987. However, banking sector
activity might have expanded more rapidly with a more appropriate interest
rate structure. Interest rates on deposits during 1987 were not high
enough to compensate for the expected level of depreciation of the Guinean
Franc vis a vis other currencies given an average inflation rate of 33
percent for the year as a whole. In recognition of the inadequate level of
incentives to Guinean residents for holding Guinean Francs rather than
foreign exchange or real assets, the Central Bank revised its interest rate
policy in January 1988.  While current rates (17 percent for term deposits
of more than six months) reflect more closely the expected depreciation of
the Guinean Franc during 1988, they still yield lower returns on domestic
currency than on foreign exchange deposits and are still negative in real
terms in light of projected inflation rate of 25 percent for the year. The
21 Including FG 2.5 billion in term deposits compared to FG 0.6 billion
at end-1986.



- 14 -
Government is committed to the principle of attaining positive real
interest rates in 1989 as a central instrument to mobilize domestic
resources. To this end, IDA will assist the Government in the
rationalization of the structure of interest rates in the context of a
financial sector operation which will be appraised during the second half
of 1988. In addition to addressing the weaknesses of the current interest
rate policy, the financial sector operation will seek to improve the
regulatory function of the Central Bank. As a preparatory step to this
operation, the Government has also agreed to undertake a study to analyze
the factors which determined inflation in 1987, disaggregating one-time
adjustments from underlying trends, with a view to gauging the structural
factors expected to drive inflation in the short to medium term.
42.       Trade and pricing regime.  The liberalization of prices and
marketing coupled with the Government's disengagement from commercial and
industrial activity, and the tariff reforms have led to a remarkable
revitalization of the Guinean private sector. The recent measures
announced on January 1, 1988, to harmonize the turnover tax levied on
imports and on domestic production at 10 percent (formerly 8 and 12 percent
respectively) eliminated the bias in favor of imports. Now, in order to
eliminate protection currently granted to local production of luxury goods
consumption surtaxes, currently only applied to imported goods, will be
extended to cover domestically produced goods in order to eliminate
protection currently granted to local production of luxury goods. The
Government will continue to strictly limit export taxation to the 2 percent
export duty levied by the Customs Directorate and eliminate other taxes,
such as the tax on research and processing, currently levied on export
crops. It will also study the most appropriate export promotion measures
to to foster efficient, outward-oriented production including duty
exemptions (admission temooraire) or rebates (drawback schemes). The
Authorities have undertaken to limit derogations from the general tariff
regime to goods imported under the Investment Code, the Vienna Convention,
and special conventions already in effect (i.e. mining companies). In this
context, the Government will review some of the recently concluded special
conventions with a view to reassessing the justification for customs duty
exonerations provided therein.
43.       In an effort to encourage competitive domestic rice production
and to avoid implicit subsidization of consumers of imported food aid rice,
the Government will subject all food imports, including food aid, to full
cost pricing inclusive of the minimum 10 percent import duty. Thus, rather
than periodic review of prices, food aid imports would be priced according
to a formula which applies the prevailing exchange rate to the landed CIF
price plus appropriate allowances for margins and losses.
44.       With the continued restructuring of the public enterprise sector
in the second phase (paras 57-59), the rates for public utilities and
services will be reviewed with a view to attaining tariff and recovery
rates compatible with the goal of fully covering operating costs in the
short term and progressively contributing to investment, thus minimizing
the need for budgetary transfers. A recently appraised second Water Supply



- 15 -
Project proposes to raise the consumer rate by 250 percent, from OF 60/m3
to GF 150/m3 to cover variable operating costs initially, and thereafter,
to transfer over a period of 6 years the sectoral debt service onto the
consumer (para 14). Institutional restructuring of the company envisaged
under this Project is expected to improve collection rates as well as the
quality of services provided. The electricity company will increase
tariffs, adjusting the structure of tariffs as between users if necessary,
in order to cover higher operating costs resulting from the increase in
fuel prices. At the same time, the electricity utility will benefit from
IDA-financed technical assistance under the Second Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Credit to improve further billing and collection
rates. In the urban transport sector, tariffs will be adjusted so as to
limit budgetary subsidies in 1988 and 1989 to no more than GF 1.5 billion
(their 1987 level).
45.       Legal and institutional framework.  Despite recent progress in
creating a viable legal/institutional environment (see para. 15), further
work is required to review other economic and financial laws and to define
more precisely the application measures of the new codes and laws. A
number of the privatization agreements of industrial parastatals, for
instance, were concluded on terms significantly more favorable than those
foreseen under the new Investment Code. While this may reflect low rates
of effective protection, or the high operating costs and the relative
uncertainty in the investment environment, it is also likely that the lack
of implementation details in the Investment Code contributed to the
non-respect of the Code. A National Investment Commission has been set up,
and will be receiving technical assistance financed through the proposed
second Economic Management Support Project. The Comission will oversee
the application of the Investment Code regulations and ensure inter alia
that future privatization agreements and new investments remain within the
framework of the Code. The Government will also promulgate the Public
Procurement Code, the absence of which has at times hampered efficient,
cost effective public contracting and a General Accounting Law by September
1988. Purthermore the Government is in the process of implementing the new
Commercial and Labor Codes. These and other codes will ensure that
competition is fostered and not hindered, and access is unbiased and free.
During the second phase of the adjustment program, evaluation of the legal
implications of the reform measures will be strengthened with the
assistance of three IDA financed, long term legal advisors to the CCEF, to
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Justice Ministry.
Strengthening the Management of the National Economy.
46.       The long term sustainability of the reform process begun in 1986
will depend largely on the Government's ability to create an efficient,
motivated and qualified civil service able to manage the national economy
effectively within the framework of the flexible, market oriented economy.
47.       Administrative Reform.  The administrative reforms will be
pursued during the second phase of the adjustment program through: (i) the
structural reorganization of government departments; (ii) staff testing



- 16 -
and selection; 3/ and, (iii) staff training programs. The medium term
target is to create a core civil service staff of about 50,000 persons --
equivalent to a reduction of about 14 percent of the active civil service
in 1987. The administrative reform program will benefit from an extension
of the UNDP assistance program, which will be supplemented by the proposed
IDA second Economic Management Support Project.
48.       The Government will adopt for each of the ministries and
departments new organizational structures (cadres organiques), currently
under preparation by the Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil
Service (para. 19). Priority will be given to the core ministries
responsible for economic management: The Ministries of Planning and
International Cooperation (MPCI), Economy and Finance (NEF) and
Administrative Reform and Civil Service (MRAPP). Thus, with the exception
of the Ministry of National Education, which will complete the selection
and reorganization process in the context of the Edvcation Sector
Adjustment operation proposed for FY89, the Centra'. Administration will be
zeorganized by mid-1989.
49.       Selection of qualified staff for positions within the new
organizational structures will also be completed during the second phase of
the reform program. Priority will, once more, be given to the core
ministries responsible for economic management. The announcement on
January 1, 1988 of a salary increase to be awarded to tested and selected
staff has given greater impetus to the testing and selection process. In
order to further alleviate the socio-political constraints which delayed
implementation of civil service reforms in the first phase of the reform,
(i) compensatory measures to assist laid off staff will be maintained; (ii)
incentives in the form of salary increases beyond those awarded on January
1, 1988, but commensurate with increases in public resources, will be
granted to staff retained; and (Wii) retraining will be offered to staff
retained through the introduction of permanent civil service staff training
facilities. The Government will define a new severance package to be
extended to employees who, following completion of the civil service staff
testing process and the closure, restructuring or privatization of public
enterprises, will not be retained by the civil service. This severance
package will consist of payments equivalent to no more than 24 months
salary, at salary levels of the last month of employment. At the same
time, the voluntary departure scheme will be extended to civil servants
wishing to leave pliblic employment prior to staff testing. Finally, the
Government has decided to end, on December 31, 1988, the administrative
reserve status and eligibility to the voluntary departure scheme of public
enterprise employees currently on a4ministrative reserve.   The proposed
3/ Staff testing and selection concerns civil servants only. Employees
of closed public enterprises (considered civil servants under the
previous regime) were not given the option of sitting through tests
but instead automatically placed in administrative reserve.



- 17 -
parallel Economic Management Support Project will finance technical
assistance to complete a training needs assessment for the key ministries
which would in turn lead to the establishment of a training plan for the
civil service to be implemented under the proposed EMSP. These measures
will help to attract and retain skilled and motivated staff in the civil
service.
50.       During the second phase of the program, personnel management
procedures will be strengthened through the establishment of a consolidated
staff register. Computerization of the personnel data based on the updated
and verified civil service roster would begin in 1988. In addition, the
personnel administration units (Division des Affaires Administratives et
Financiires) of ministries will be strengthened in order to permit the
coatinuous updating of the central staff register at the Ministry of
Administrative Reform and Civil Service. This list would also serve as the
central payroll list at MEP. Civil service management procedures will be
further strengthened through the promulgation of a new legal framework
(Statut de la Fonction Publique, Grille de Carribre) governing recruitment,
promotion &ad lay-offs. In addition, a new salary grid that consolidates
existing allowances and reestablishes an adequate spread between minimum
and maximum salary grades will be adopted when civil service staff testing
is completed by mid-1989.
S1.       Fiscal Policy.  The overwhelming reliance (for almost 80 percent
of fiscal revenues) of the Government on revenues emanating from the
bauxite sector renders it excessively vulnerable to developments in the
international aluminum industry. A major policy objective in this area is
to expand the non-mining tax effort without stifling the development of the
nascent private sector. The Government recognizes, however, that in the
short term the benefits of the resource mobilization measures will be
largely in the form of institutional reinforcement leading to a progressive
ilcrease in tax and customs duty recovery. The institutional strengthening
and the adjustment to major excise tax rates (petroleum, tobacco and
alcohol) are expected to lead to an increase in non-mining revenues from
about 4.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to over 7 percent by 1993. This projected
increase in the non-mining tax effort notwithstanding, there is a need to
place and maintain stringent controls on the level and nature of
expenditures in the short-term, in light of the expected decline in mining
revenues and given the projected budget deficits of 7.6 and 5.7 percent of
GDP in 1988 and 1989. A core public expenditure program in the social
sectors would be defined, however, as a safety net for the most vulnerable
groups. Rationalization of expenditure policy will involve improving the
quality of projects in the public investment program, increasing the
concessionality of new loans, applying stringent controls on current
expenditures and reinforcing administrative procedures as well as capacity
to ensure compliance with policy decisions. In parallel, the Government
intends to introduce a system of matching funds between Central Government
Budget and local collectivities for the funding of investments and
recurrent expenditures in the social sectors.



- 18 -
52.       (a) Enhancement of Revenue.  Guinea's existing domestic tax
system is inadequate to meet even the most modest financing requirements,
as most customs and tax revenue has historically been drawn from the mining
sector. The tax base was eroded partly due to large, uncontrolled and
discretionary exemptions. The extreme concentration of revenues in the
bauxi.telalumina sector has left public finances highly vulnerable to
developments in the international mining economy. With a view to
diversifying the sources of revenue, the Government will strengthen
substantially customs and tax administrations.
53.       The objectives of these institutional reforms ares ti) a
significant improvement in the exploitation of the available tax and duty
bases without recourse to increases in the customs tariff; (ii) an
equitable application of the customs and tax codes; (iii) avoidance of high
marginal rates of tax and duty and cascade effects so as to minimize
evasion, fraud and disincentive effects; and (iv) implementation of a
progressive income tax system, including exoneration of income tax for
households below the poverty line. These reforms would continue to be
closely coordinated with the IMP tax administration and legal assistance
departments. Specific measures to reform the Customs Directorate would
include:
(i)       retraining the customs administration staff so as to
reinforce the services in the port zone and in the interior
of the country along the major land routes;
(ii)      creating five mobile customs inspection brigades for the
interior of the country;
(iii)     promulgating the Customs Code and its implementation
measures; and
(iv)      computerize customs declarations in Conakry based on the
UNCTADIASYCUDA (Automated System for Customs Data) system.
Reforms to the Tax Directorate would includes
(i)       reorganizing the Tax Directorate and retraining selected
staff;
(ii)      simplifying the tax code to assure equity, efficiency and
yield inter alia by abolishing or consolidating minor, low
yield, discriminatory taxes (stamp duty, apprenticeship tax,
tax on movies and theaters, tax on research and processing
and versement forfaitaire);
(iii)     broadening the direct tax base, especially by including
rental income, reducing exemptions and closing loopholes;
(iv)      budgetizing all taxes, fees and other public revenues,
including the ONATHOL/hotel tax; and,



- 19 -
(v,       subjecting domestically produced tobacco and alcohol
products to consumption surtaxes and further increasing the
specific excise tax on petroleum products.
In addition, tax administration efficiency would be enhanced through the
creation of central taxpayer files, improved audit procedures and effective
legal sanctions to prevent tax evasion. Significant technical assistance
and materiel will be required to implement successfully these reforms in
the Customs and Tax Directorates during the second phase of the reform
program. These resources would be provided by the proposed IDA second
EMSP, the IMF and through French bilateral assistance.
54.       (b) Expenditure Control.  To improve financial management, the
Government intends to strengthen substantially the budgetary process and
expenditure control procedures. The Government's objectives in expenditure
control during the second phase of the adjustment program include the
following measures:
(a) The preparation at the Ministry of Economy and Finance of a
detailed, comprehensive, consolidated budget comprising the
investment, recurrent cost and public debt components well in
advance of the fiscal year, with particular attention to adequate
provision of recurrent budgets for the technical ministries.
The annual budget would be a binding legal document, approved and
revised by the Council of Ministers and signed into law by the
Head of State. The principle of budgetary unity will be strictly
enforced to ensure that no extra-budgetary expenditure is
undertaken and that all government accounts are centralized at
the Treasury. This measure will require the preparation and
adoption of a loi oraanique which spells out the responsibilities
of various ministries in the budgetary process and sets a strict
calendar for the preparation of the annual budget, review of the
existing outdated reilement financier and the updating of the
budget nomenclature.
(b) Strict limits will be placed on current expenditures. The
elaboration of sufficiently precise departmental expenditure
commitments and the adoption by mid-1989 of a unique,
centralized, computerized payroll system will enhance expenditure
control. Further expenditure control measures will seek direct
payment of salaries to civil servants' bank accounts substituting
increasingly for cash payments;
(c) Debt mornitoring and management capabilities will be strengthened
inter alia through strict control over the contracting of
non-concessional debt, the continuous updating of the
Government's computerized external debt statistics with a view to
not only remaining current on its debt service obligations but
also generally strengthening public expenditure programming and
financial management.



- 20 -
(d) Disbursement authorization procedures for Public Investments will
be tightened to minimize recourse to the autorisation de paiement
thereby limiting expenditures to projects included in the
investment budget.
(e) A mechanism allowing for timely and accurate monitoring of the
execution and revision of the budget in the course of the year
will be adopted through the computerization of the budgetary
system and operations.
55.       Public Investment Programming and Budteting.  In the last quarter
of 1987 the Government reviewed with IDA the coherence of the 1988 public
investment program (PIP) with the medium term macroeconomic framework, the
composition of the overall investment portfolio and its compatibility with
sectoral strategies, and the preparation, selection and monitoring
procedures for the projects to be included in the program. The PIP was
found to be largely consistent with the objectives of the economic and
financial adjustment program. Only two projects of dubious justification
(army barracks and 500 classrooms) received partial financing in 1987
despite not having been included in the investment budget, and agreement
was reached on scaling down the size of the barracks and on reducing the
unit cost of the 500 classrooms to regional norms. During the second phase
of the adjustment program public investment programming and budgeting will
be further improved through:
(a) the strengthening of the links and the coherence between the
public investment program and the medium term macroeconomic
framework to ensure the sustainability of the program;
(b) the articulation of clear and coherent sectoral strategies
linking sectoral public investments to the medium term growth
scenario within the macroeconomic framework;
(c) the definition, in the framework of the PIP, of a core investment
program in the social sectors, constituting a safety net for the
poor segments of the population to be protected against possible
future cuts in expenditures;
(d) the development of project preparation and appraisal capacities
within the technical ministries and within the Ministry of Plan
and International Cooperation in order to limit investments to
those projects which have been justified through prior technical,
financial and economic feasibility studies, and for which
financing has been acquired;
(e) the prioritization, among projects with acceptable economic rates
of return or cost effectiveness ratio, of labor intensive
alternatives and projects in the most disadvantaged regions of
the country;



- 21 -
(f) the preparation, according to a strict calendar, of a
comprehensive annual investmernt budget (Budget National de
Ddveloovement. BND) which includes all foreign financed projects
but excludes autonomous public enterprise investments. This
investment budget will impose budgetary discipline on the
Government and donors alike, rigorously exclud4'g all
extrabudgeta.: investments and thereby ensure the coherence of
the overall investment portfolio. Furthermore, all recurrent
project expenditures currently included in the investment budget
will be inscribed in the Government's current budget:
(g) the rationalization of disbursement procedures allowing for more
timely project execution, yet with increased a lposteriori control
of the appropriation limits;
(h) the institution of a system for adequate physical and financial
monitoring of projects for the purposes of both expenditure
control and in order to improve the project portfolio for the
outer years of the rolling investument program.
56.       In this context and in order to ensure that the public investment
program serves as a major tool of public policy, the Directorate of Public
I-nvestments (DGIP) of the Ministry of Plan will benefit from significant
technical assistance under the proposed Economic Management Support
Project.
57.       Public enterprise reform.  During the second phase of the
adjustment program the Government will complete the ongoing process of
liquidation. privatization and restructuring of the public enterprise
sector. All enterprises slated for liquidation will be closed by end 1988
and liquidated over the courae of 1989. The Government will also pursue
the privatization of industrial enterprises and the sale of commercial
enterprise assets. The privatization agreements to be concluded during the
second phase will eliminate the monopoly privileges currently granted to
the public enterprise sector and strictly avoid giving advantages beyond
those foreseen in the Investment Code. Public enterprises slated for
privatization for which no interest has been elicited by second tranche
would be closed and liquidated in 1989.
58.       There has been notable foreign investor interest in the viable
industrial public enterprises. Rowever, in order to reserve a share in
these firms for potential future national investors, the Government has
kept a minority participation in a number of enterprises on a temporary
basis. A number of management plans for this portfolio, including the
creation of a mixed capital trust management firm (Socidt6 Financibre de
Guinee. SFIG), are under discussion. During the second phase of the
adjustment program the Government will consult the Association prior to
taking participation of over 25 percent in any mixed enterprise. The
Government will further define and implement an efficient program to manage
these temporary shares and set out an action plan, including the mechanism



- 22 -
and calendar for divestiture, during the second phase of the privatization
program.
59.       Whereas tha process of privatization and liquidation of public
enterprises will be completed by end 1989, the Government will, in the
foreseeable future, retain in its portfolio a number of fully or partially
owned enterprises. These will consist of agencies responsible for the
public utilities (e.g. electricity, water, telecommunications), services
(e.g. port, airport, railways) and the joint-venture mining companies. The
relationship of state-owned entreprises to the Government will be redefined
in a new loi cadre, the role of the central Government bei:ig limited to
giving final approval to policy and operational decisions taken by the
Boards of Directors of these enterprises and to monitoring financial and
managerial performance. Subsequently, statutes of specific parapublic
enterprises will be revised to conform to the new loi cadre, starting with
key public utilities. These measures will be complemented by the
elaboration of performance contracts between the State and the enterprises
which establish financal and managerial performance criteria for the
enterprises. Full restructuring of these enterprises will permit
improvement not only in the quality of the services provided, but also in
cost recovery rates so that investments can progressively be financed by
the enterprises themselves. Tariffs will be adjusted increasingly to cover
the full cost of services, while institutional restructuring measures will
increase the collection rates.
Sector Strategies
60.       As mentioned previously, growth of the Guinean economy has thus
far depended heavily on its bauxite resources, In order to reduce this
dependence, and to mobilize the country's diverse sectoral growth
potential, the Government will continue to pursue measures to diversify
sources of growth both within the mining sector and outside, emphasizing
development of the rural sector and rebuilding the physical and human
infrastructure.
61.       The Government's objectives in the mining sector are to increase
the exploitation of diamonds and gold, and explore the prospects for
efficient private sector development of the rich iron ore deposits in the
Forest Zone (Mount Nimba). The structural adjustment reforms undertaken in
the first phase have begun to shift the terms of trade in favor of the
rural sector, which has become a key sector in the adjustment process. The
Government will promote efficient production of foodstuffs and encourage
cash crop production for export, largely based on smallholder agriculture,
by building up national support services (research and extension), rural
infrastructure, and through the maintenance of appropriate pricing and
marketing policies. In this context, the Government will apply by first
tranche release full-cost pricing, inclusive of the minimum tariff to
imported food aid rice, which would increase the cost of imported food aid
rice from about GF 155/kg to about GF 200/kg, and thus permit domestic rice
to compete with imports. Agricultural inputs already benefit from a 5
percent, reduced tariff. Furthermore, to encourage export crop production,



- 23 -
the tax on research and processing (taxe de recherche et de
conditionnement) will be abolished and export taxes will be limited to the
2 percent customs tax.   In the infrastructure sector, government
priorities aim at the rehabilitation of the principal east-vest and coastal
road axes, upgrading of the telecommunications network, and major
improvements to the energy and water distribution systems through
institutional reforms accompanied by appropriate priority investments.
Regarding human resource developmen., the recently started dialogue on the
revision of the Education and Training system to make it more consistent
with the socio-economic needs of the changing economy will be pursued, and
action plans for implementing the required chan.3es will be developed over
the next year.
Social Policy
62.       In the framework of the second phase of the Economic and
Financial Recovery Program, the Government intends to implement a social
policy aimed at fostering the participation of the poor in the process of
economic growth and at protecting the groups most affected during the
transition phase of the adjustment. This policy will be based on:
63.       (a) Macroeconomic Measures. The macroeconomic measures to be
implemented by the Government in the framework of its social policy
include:
(iM       Definition, on the basis of sectoral programs, of a core
public expenditure program in the social sectors,
constituting a safety net for the poor segments of the
population;
(ii)      Giving priority, among projects with acceptable rates of
return and cost effectiveness ratios, to labor-intensive
projects and to projects in the most disadvantaged regions
of the country;
(iii)     Implementation of a matching fund mechanism between the
Central Government and local collectivities for the funding
of investments and recurrent expenditures for basic social
services.
64.       (b) Sectoral Measures.  In the context of its social policy over
the next year the Government intends to elaborate and implement medium-teri
development strategies in the education, health, nutrition, population,
housing and basic infrastructure (water and sanitation) sectors. In eac%
of these sectors the Government will implement the following action plan
with special attention being given to measures to protect or assist.
vulnerable groups:
(i)      Definition of sectoral policy objectives, of a medium and
long-term sectoral development strategy and of sectoral



- 24 -
policy reforms to be implemented in the framework of these
strategies;
(ii)      Definition of a program of investments and recurrent
expenditures :ompatible with the medium and long-term
sectoral strategy, including a core program constituting a
safety net for the poor segments of the population;
65.       (c) Institutional Measures. The Government will undertake a
series of institutional measures aimed at strengthening the
Administration's capacity to design and implement its social policy
including, in particular:
Mi)       Implementation of a permanent household survey with the
objective of tracking the evolution of the living conditions
of various population groups in the course of adjustment
based on key indicators in the area of income, consumption,
employment, access to social services, and nutrition;
(ii)      Strengthening the Administration's capacity to carry out
socio-economic studies to serve as a basis for the design of
social policies; and
(iii)     Strengthening the capacity of the Administration to
identify, appraise and monitor specific poverty alleviation
programs and projects.
66.       (d) Priority Action Proiram. In the short term, before completion
of the sectoral development strategies and the sectoral investment
programs, the Government intends to implement a Priority Action Program
consisting of clearly targeted projects with the objective of directly
improving the living conditions of vulnerable groups. A task force
established by the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation and
coordinated by UNICEF, has completed a first overview of the social
sectors.  This overview has included a poverty profile of the Guinean
population, the identification of vulnerable groups in rural and urban
sectors,'the definition of specific criteria for the selection of projects
to be undertaken within the framework of the Priority Action Program, and
the identification of a first series of projects in the areas of basic
education, primary health care, nutrition, employment generation and
micro-credit schemes.
67.       In order to support the implementation of the Priority Action
Program, the Government intends to establish a Social Development Fund
(SDF).- The Fund will be established through an initial contribution from
the proposed Economic Management Support Project. Projects submitted to
the Fund will be evaluated by a Socio-economic Studies and Projects Unit
being established in the context of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
(SDA) Project, and reviewed by the Directorate of Public Investments.
Projects to be undertaken will be required to satisfy a number of criteria,
includings



- 25 -
(i)   Targeting in favor of vulnerable groups;
(ii)  Acceptable cost-effectiveness ratio;
(iii) Minimal recurrent cost implications;
(iv)  Implementation simplicity; and
(v)   Participation of local collectivities.
68.       As the proposed project portfolio to be financed through the SDF
increases, the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation will convene
a donors meeting with the objectives of presenting the portfolio to the
donor community and to mobilize support for the SDP beyond the initial
contribution proposed under the Economic Management Support Project.
69.       (e) Follow-up and strenathenina of actions in suDDort of the
reintegration in the orivate sector of civil servants. During the
transitional phase, the Government's efforts to create a well paid, trained
and motivated core civil service will entail a reduction in the number of
civil servants. In order to ease this transition, the Government intends
to: (i) provide severance packages compatible with domestic financial
resources; (ii) establish vocational training programs at the Ministry of
Labor; and (iii) extend the mandate of the agency assisting civil servants
prepare projects for bank financing IBARAPs Bureau d'Assistance a la
R4insertion des Agents de la Fonction Publioue). In addition, in its
project selection process, the Government will give priority among
otherwise economically justified projects, to more labor intensive
projects, thereby encouraging alternative sources of employment in the
economy.
PART III - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE PROGRAM
Projected Medium Term Prospects for Growth
70.       For the 1988-93 period the Government's basic objectives, as
incorporated in the medium-term scenario presented in Tables 1 and 2 in
this section and Tables 1-4 in Annex II are: (i) to achieve an average
annual rate of economic growth of about 4 percent through 1993, predicated
on a strong private sector supply response to the planned improvements in
infrastructure and the favorable policy environment; (ii) to curb the rate
of inflation to one that by 1990 would approximate that in Guinea's main
trading partners: (iii) to maintain the real effective exchange rate
constant over the period; (iv) to restore the level of available foreign
exchange reserve's to the equivalent of 16 weeks' imports (other than those
of the mining companies and the public investment program); and (v) to
raise steadily the rate of national, savings -- from about 13 percent of GDP
in 1988 to 18 percent of GDP in 1993 -- and to hold the current account
deficit to less than 4 percent of GDP starting in 1989, despite the drop in
bauxite earnings and a projected rise of gross domestic investment from
around 18 percent of GDP in 1988 to almost 21.5 percent in 1993. The ICOR
implied by this growth scenario is 4.2 for the 1988-93 period.



- 26 -
71.       The macroeconomic scenario discussed above yields an increase in
the overall budget deficit on a commitment basis, including grants, from 7
percent of GDP in 1987 to an estimated 7.6 percent of GDP in 1988, stemming
from the projected sharp increases in interest payments and in externally
financed capital expenditures. Progressive improvements in the budgetary
outlook are projected thereafter, with deficits as a share of GDP declining
to 5.7 percent in 1989 and 4.4 percent in 1993. The current budget balance
of the Government, on the other hand, is expected to improve from a deficit
of 1.3 percent of GDP in 1986 to a surplus of nearly 5 percent in 1993,
thereby contributing to the national savings effort (see Table 1 and Annex
II). This outcome would, however, critically depend on Government efforts
to increase non-mining revenues and on strict expenditure controls, both
major objectives of the second phase of the adjustment program. The
realization of this scenario would represent substantial progress toward an
external payments and budgetary position consistent with the restoration of
s4stainable economic growth over the medium term and the maintenance of an
exchange system free of restrictions on payments and transfers for current
international transactions. Even with the increases in national savings,
however, it is expected that by the end of the period Guinea will still
require substantial balance of payments support in the form of debt relief,
new concessional funding or a combination thereof. This is due to both the
expected sharp deterioration of the terms of trade (by a cumulative 24
percent) over the five-year period and the weight of the debt inherited
from the period prior to 1986, which would heavily mortgage foreign
exchange earnings particularly from 1990 onward (see Table 2 and Annex II).
Despite the heavy debt overhang, Guinea must continue to remove the large
infrastructural bottlenecks if the conditions for sustained growth are to
be met and creditworthiness effectively restored in the long run.
72.       IDA's continuing support of Guinea's public investment planning
and implemew-%tion capabilities through the technical assistance project
should result it. further increases in domestic absorption capacity. Public
investment is thus projected to increase at an average annual rate of 7
percent in real terms from 1988 through 1993, with the domestically
financed public investments growing at 9.6 percent. The medium term
scenario also assumes continued growth of private investment at about 10
percent per annum during the period, in response to improved incentivqs.
The expected increases in private investment and the efficiency gains in
public investment are projected to result in overall real growth rates of 4
percent per annum through 1993. Such growth rates would enable real growth
in per capita incomes of about 1.5 perceut per annum. Total final
consumption, on the other hand, is projected to grow at around 3 percent
through 1993, slightly above population growth of 2.8 percent. During the
same period (1987-93), real growth in exports is expected to equal the rate
of growth in imports at 1.5 percent per annum.
73.       The primary sector (agriculture, livestock, fishing and forestry)
is projected to grow at an average rate of 3.8 percent per annum from 1988
through 1993 in response to the liberal pricing and marketing environment,
the continued rehabilitation of infrastructure and support services
including improved research and extension, and efficient investment



- 27 -
projects. A significant supply response is projected for food crops
including basic cereals and vegetables. Output of principal export crops
-- coffee, palm products and pineapple -- is also expected to respond
positively to the liberal pricing and marketing framework, export
incentives and improvements in public infrastructure. The development of
the country's important yet underesploited commercial fishing sector would
result in rapid increases in sector output. Output of the secondary sector
(mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities) is projected to rise by
3.9 percent per annum through 1993. It is assumed that the mining sector
would grow by 2.3 percent during this period with the expansion of mining
activity (gold, diamonds and granite) outside the bauxitelalumina
subsector. Rehabilitation of the country's phyeical infrastructure is
projected to result in growth of 5 and 8 percent in the construction and
utilities sectors respectively. Efficient capacity use is also assumed to
rise sharply in response to the ongoing privatization and rehabilitation of
viable industrial enterprises and the reforms in the incentives framework.
The manufacturing subsector in particular, responding to the restructured
incentives environment and spurred by expanding domestic demand, could grow
annually by more than 5 percent over the period. Extension and
consolidation of the privatization activities in the commercial sector and
higher remuneration for the restructured civil service, on the other hand,
are projected to result in an average annual growth rate of 4.3 percent for
the tertiary sector (trade, transport, administration). The growth in the
transport sector, responding to the expansion in production and
improvements in infrastructure, would average 4.6 percent through 1993.
These growth scenarios constitute a major reversal of past trends in
economic performance but assume the timely and full implementation of the
Government's reform program.
External Financina Requirements
74.       Even with sustained implementation of the Government's
macro-economic structural adjustment program, Guinea's external payments
position is projected to remain under pressure in the medium term. Indeed,
sustained external financial assistance on highly concessional terms will
be required if imports are to be maintained at levels consistent with
growth objectives and if, concurrently Guinea is to remain current on its
external debt obligations. Alternatively further rescheduling will be
required.
75.       The unfavorable external environment over the medium term is
explained by the deterioration in the overall terms of trade and from the
expected decline in bauxite export earnings. These developments, together
with the growth in private sector and imports related to the public
investment program as well as increasing interest payments on the public
debt, result in a projected cumulative current account deficit of US$645
million over 1988-93 period (see Table 2 and Annex II). Given scheduled
debt amortization, repurchases from the Fund, other capital outflows on
account of the mining sector, and targeted reserve accumulation, ex ante
total external financing needs would amount to about US$1.72 billion during
the six year period ending in 1993.



- 28 -
76.        Some US$982 million are expected to be disbursed against the
public investment program, of which US$407 million in IDA project credits.
Resources from other sources, mainly private capital inflows in the form of
direct investment, are projected at US$152 million, leaving total balance
of payments financing needs for 1988-93 of US$589 million. With US$136
million of non-project financing already acquired, the residual financing
requirement amounts to a cumulative US$453 million for the 1988-93 period.
77.       The level of balance of payments support required varies from
year to year. Despite resources amounting to US$95 million in 1987 from
the IMF, IDA and cofinanciers under SAL-I, debt relief obtained under the
1986 Paris Club rescheduling agreement and other reschedulings currently
under negotiation, the Government accumlated arrears in this year of US$24
million. During 1988-89, balance of payments financing needs are projected
to amount to US$246 million over the two-year period. A total of US$136
million in disbursements from IDA and cofinanciers of SAL-I and SAP
resources have been identified, leaving a residual gap of US$110 million,
which would be financed by SAL-II, including new commitments from
cofinanciers. In view of the cost of rescheduling, no additional
rescheduling beyond those concluded with financial institutions and being
negotiated with non-Paris Club creditors is deemed necessary for 1988-89.
In 1990-93, Guinea will make payments on the consolidated principal and
Iaterest rescheduled in 1986, which included the large overhang of arrears
accumulated prior to 1986 and on the assumed rescheduling of the 1987-88
payments to non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. 4I With these increased
payments, the debt service ratio is projected to exceed 35 percent in
1990-93, with rescheduled payments alone accounting for almost one-third of
the total. Even this high ratio, however, does not accurately reflect the
burden of debt service obligations on Guinea's external payments since
exports of goods and nonfactor services (the denominator) include exports
of the mining companies while debt service figures (the numerator) do not
include payments made by the same companies on account of their private
debt. The cumulative impact of these rescheduled obligations, payments to
the Fund, and the deteriorating trade balance results in balance of
payments financing requirements of US$343 million over the 1990-93 period.
This gap could be filled through additional resources provided by the
Special Program for Low Income Debt Distressed Countries, other
concessional assistance and through debt rescheduling if available on
highly concessional terms.
41   The 1987-88 debt rescheduling assumption excludes the USSR.  Debt to
the USSR which is serviced directly out of the proceeds of the Kindia
Bauxite Mine (OBK) will be reviewed in the broader context of
Guineo-Soviet relations.



- 29 -
Tablo 1
KEY MACROECONMIC INDICATORS
II
1                                          1069    1997      199,     1999     19       1991     1992     1993 1
I                                ..          t       .     -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p * o I  * e t  * dI
I                  .'I
Reel Growth Rate*  (in X)
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)                        5.9      5.5      4.8     4.0       8.9      3.9     4.0 1
I GOP per cepit.                                     8.1      2.7      1.4      1.2      1.1      1.1      1.1
I Coneumptlon per capita                            -O.5    -1.8       a.7    -0.6       0.4      9.2      0.4 1
1- -_ ~                  --------- -----------
In Current Price
Debt ServIc. (USS ml lieon)              189.1    176.8   220.6    188.6   196.9   222.9   241.2   288.4 1
Debt Service S * share of
l  Exports of Goods and NFS ()             838.6    29.7    89.8    81.1    81.1        85.4     a7.4     3.0  1
Debt Service as a share of                                                                                    I
I  Gross Domestic Product (M)               9.9      0.4      9.0      6.6      6.5      7.2      7.1      6.4 1
In Current Price.
3 Gross Investment as % of GOP             15.O     18.6    17.8      18.4     19.2     20.0     20.7    21.5 I
Domestic Savings as % of GDP              16.2    18.2    16.9       18.2    19.6    19.8    20.8    21.0 1
l National Savings as % of GDP             19.9    1I.8      12.7     14.6    16.8    16.5       17.1    18.0 1
j Public Investment as X of GDP             5.1      5.6      6.5      6.8      6.4      6.5      8        6.6 
I Private Investment a* X of GOP            9.9    19.8    11.8    12.0    12.6    18.5          14.1    14.9 !
3 Ratio Public to Private Investment       51.0    58.4      57.5    52.s      c0.2     40.8     46.5    48.9 1
I Public Savings as X of OP                 0.6      4.6      5.2      5.7      5.7      6.1      8.4      6.9 i
Private Savingo as % of GOP               19.8      8.8      7.5      8.9     10.5    19.4    19.7    11.1 i
In Current Prices
Government Revenue as X of GDP            11.3     18.9    12.5    18.1       18.2     18.5     18.7    14.0 1
I Govornment Expenditure as X of GOP       20.8     20.0    20.1      18.9     19.0    19.1      19.1    16.9 i
l D elt as X of GOP, excl grants           -9.1    -7.0    -7.6    -5.8        -5.8     -5.6     -6.4     -4.9 j
I Dficit ase  X of GDP,  cil grants        -7.1     -4.9     -4.7    -8.8    -8.7    -8.5    -8.8    -2.7 1
l   In Current Prices
Export of Goods and NFS, Growth Rate               5.6    -5.5       7.9      8.4      9.5      2.4      2.9 1
I Exports as X of GDP 1/                   29.4     27.4    22.8      21.4     21.9    21.2      20.7    20.8 1
Imports of Good, and NFS, Growth Rate              8.8      4.8      4.6      0.8      8.5      8.8      8.7 
Imports as X of GOP 1/                   28.2    25.6    28.2       21.5     21.4     21.3     21.1     20.6 1
Current Account (USS milltons)            -79      -72    -118      -195      -82    -102      -111    -116 I
Current Account as X of GOP              -4.1    -8.8    -5.1       -8.7    -2.9    -8.4    -8.6    -8.5 1
1/ Data relating to external transactions as shown in the balance of paymnts of table differ from thoce included
in the national Income accounts. While the differences have been maintained for the base yer, projections for
gros domestle product ref lect trends assumed for the purpose of b lance of payments projections.



- 30 -
Table 2
Quines: Extornal Financing Requirnmnts 1987-1993
(in millions of US dollar.)
1987   1968   1989   1090   1991   1992   1993 1 Tote I
*st.          -Pr o j * e          o    n a  -     1 1968-981
I                                             S   -   .I   rl   _ . . . _          ^    "   - I       I
JR"ul rmt                                                                                   I         I
I-                                                                                            
I External currnt account defielts      72.8  127.9  195.8   62.4  102.4  111.4  113.7 I  845.1 I
I Amortization of publie debt          111.7  126.6  122.1  120.4  150.5  169.6  159.9 5  846.8
of whicht  1986 Parls Club reach       8.6    8.0    8.9   16.8   88.5   48.0   48.0 I  148.8
1969 reschedulIng                    2.0    2.0    2.0   17.9   17.9   22.4 I   64.0
Other capital outflow (mining)         24.6   16.2   25.5   27.8   22.8   17.7   2S.8 1  184.8
Repaymente to the Fund                  7.0            6.6   18.2    8.6    1.0    2.3 I   30.7
Reserve aceumulation (non-IMF)         85.7    9.2   20.8    0.0    0.0    0.8    0.0 I   29.5
Reductlon 1 arrmars (- Incrase)        -7.5   32.2    4.0                                  1   U8.2 1
I                                                                            .I                       I
I   Total                              244.8  812.8  282.6  249.8  294.8  299.7  808.2 I 1721.6
lAvailable reource                                                                           I        5
I-                                                                                           I        I
IProject-related disbur_emnta          118.0  140.0  164.7  15S.4  167.5  176.0  185.0 I  961.0 7
I  IDA                                   25.2   58.4   72.6   79.2   67.2   69.2   65.8 I  406.9
;Other                                  87.8   66.6   82.1   79.2  190.8   16.8  119.7           V 574.7
Other public capital (non-project)     81.2   17.5   21.2    6.0    6.0    0.0    6.0 1   62.7
Privato sector (direct Invest.)         S.2    5.5   10.0   18.0   18.0   20.0   24.0           8 68.5
Subtota1                         149.4  163.0  185.9  177.4  189.3  202.0  215.0 I 1182.6 5
I DA (SAL 1) and co lnncler            47.1   67.7   10.0                                  I   n.71
I Fund disburemnts                      22.2   28.4   10.5                                  I   83.9
I  of which: SAF                        14.7   28.4   10.5                                  I   88.9
I Dt rel iet                            25.5   24.2                                          I   24.2
j     Subtotal                          94.8  115.8   20.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 I  185.6
|   Grand total                        244.8  278.8  209.4  177.4  169.3  202.0  215.0 5 1268.6
Residual financing gape                  8.9   8.o   76.4   71.9   94.8   67.7   88.2 I  458.0 I
IPoseible source                                                                            JI
I  SAL SS and cofinanciere                      84.0   76.4   16.0                          I  128.4 I
I  Other, lncluding debt relief                  0.o    0.9   58.9   94.8   87.7   88.2 I  824.6 1
I        _urc"t Date provided by the Gainoan authorities; SU" estimates and projoctlI 
Sources: Data pravidsd by teGuineas authorities ; stff 1Xesiae  and projection.



- 31 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Obiectives and Description
78.       The principal objectives of the proposed Credit are to support
the Government's reform program to lay the foundations for sustained
growth. Whereas the adjustment program has already led to substantial
improvements in economic performance, the Administration's weak capacity
for economic and financial management continues to hamper the full
realization of Guinea's growth potential. The proposed Credit aims
particularly at alleviating these constraints in order to deepen and
consolidate the process of adjustment with growth. The proposed Credit
will thus support further reform of public sector management and at the
same time strengthen the incentives environment for private sector
activities through: (i) the rationalization of the civil service; (ii)
resource mobilization and expenditure control measures; (iii) the
continuation of the public enterprise reforms, including the design and
implementation of effective management practices for the public portfolio;
and (iv) further improvements in the legal and institutional incentives
framework to encourage private sector initiative and investment. In
addition, the program incorporates a Social Dimensions of Adjustment
component which will identify complementary income and employment
generation measures geared toward enhancing the participation of vulnerable
groups in the development process as well as compensatory measures designed
to alleviate the transitional costs associated with the adjustment program.
The program will be further supported by a second Economic Management
Support Project (EMSP) prepared for IDA financing which will focus on the
strengthening of the institutions responsible for implementing the second
phase of the adjustment program.
Monitorable Actions and Conditions for Tranche Release
79.       The measures which the proposed Credit will support axe described
in the Government's Declaration of Development Policy and are further
summarized in the action matrix (Annex V). The Credit would be disbursed
in two tranches.
80.       The following actions were taken prior to Board presentation of
the proposed Credits
(a) Adoption by the Council of Ministers and signature by the Head of
State of the 1988 Budget (loi de finances) incorporating an
increase of non-mining revenues to GP 50 billion (or 4 percent of
GDP) and a reduction in government expenditures of goods and
services to about GF 38 billion (or 3 percent of GDP);



- 32 -
(b) Adoption of the revised 1988-90 public investment program
consistent with the medium term macroeconomic framework;
(c) Adoption of a full cost pricing formula for imported food aid
rice.
In addition, agreement was reached with the Government on: (i)
the list of public enterprises slated for privatization, liquidation and
restructuring, including a timetable !or implementation; (ii) the linking
of general salary increases to the prior completion of staff testing and
selection process and to a compensating increase in domestic revenues;
(iii) a moratorium on contracting non-concessional external debt (as
defined by OECD) during the program period. Moreover, assurances were
obtained that only projects for which the technical, economic and financial
justification had been established will be included in the public
investment program.
81.       The first tranche, to be made available at effectiveness, would
depend on the satisfactory fulfillment of the following specific
conditions:s
(a) adoption of the revised organizational structures for the Central
Administration;
(b) promulgation of the legal texts: (i) ending, on December 31,
1988, the administrative reserve status and eligibility for the
voluntary departure scheme of public enterprise employees
currently on administrative reserve; (ii) defining the severance
package to be extended to employees who, following completion of
the civil service staff testing process and the closure,
restructuring or privatization of public enterprises, will not be
retained by the civil services this severance package will
consist of payments equivalent to no more thian 24 months' salary,
at salary levels of the last month of employment and (iii)
extending the voluntary departure scheme to civil servants
wishing to leave public employment prior to staff testing.
Cc) revision of the arrOte on cement production and imports
(No.1713/NEF/1988)s ti) eliminating proposed cement import
licensing, the *anti-dumping' tax on cement imports and price
controls; and tii) setting out a schedule for the elimination of
the import surtax on cement over a period of no more than three
years;
(d) ratification of the new joint venture petroleum company (Soci6t#
Guineenne de Pdtrole) agreement;
(e) promulgation and publication of the Public Procurement Code and
the. Guinean General Accounting law;



- 33 -
(f) application of the full cost pricing formula for imported food
aid rices and
(g)  signature of the proposed second Economic Management Support
Project.
In addition, during negotiations it was agreed that the central
departments of MEF, MPCI and MRAPP (the Ministries of Economy and Finance,
Plern and International Cooperation, and Administrative Reform and Civil
Service), the three Ministries in charge of executing the Structural
Adjustment Program, would be reorganized and their staff confirmed in their
new positions by December 31, 1988.
82. *     It has been agreed with the Government that release of the second
tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory overall progress in
implementing the second phase of the Economic and Financial Reform Program,
and in particular, upon the taking of the following measuress
(a) enactment of financial (including budgeting and accounting)
regulations and procedures (syst&me de comntabilit6 Rublipue)
governing central government finarcial transactions;
(b) adoption of the 1989 Budget (loi de finances), incorporating
approoriate revenue generation efforts (increase of non-mining
revenues to GP 70 billion) and strict control of government
expenditures on goods and services (to GF 45 billion) and
effective implementation of a public accounting system and
submission of report on the execution of the 1988 Budget;
5C) adoption of the 1989-91 public investment program;
(d)  adoption of the new organizational structures for the
Decentralized Administration (administration deconcentree);
(e)  completion of testing and selection process and implementation of
decisions concerning retained and laid-off staff fo- all
ministries except the teaching staff of the Ministry of National
Education (including publication of results, formal nomination of
staff and signature of arr*td laving off non-selected staff);
(f) effective implementation of a central payroll service/file at the
Ministry of Economy and Pinance, and establishment of a permanent
personnel and salary monitoring and control mechanism;
(g) establishment of a central corporate taxpayer file on t-he basis
of a census of corporate taxpayers; and
(h) enactment of the loi cadre governing State relations with the
public enterprise sector.



- 34 -
Financing
83.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 47 million (US$65 million
equivalent) would be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR
21 million (US$29 million equivalent) would be available once effectiveness
conditions including the specific conditions outlined in para. 81 have been
met. The second tranche of SDR 26 million (US$36 million equivalent) would
be released after the Government has made satisfactory progress in
implementing the reform program and has met the specific conditions
outlined in para. 82 above. Assuming satisfactory progress on the program,
the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by December 1989.
84.       Guinea's major economic partners have pledged substantial
complementary financial assistance in support of the Government's Economic
and Financial Reform Program. The African Development Fund will make
available UA 10 million (US$12 million equivalent) through cofinancing. In
addition, France has proposed to provide about FF125 million (US$23
equivalent) in CCCE credits and in budgetary support from the French
Treasury. Japan, through the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF),
intends to provide an untied, highly concessional loan of 1,000 million Yen
(equivalent to US$7.9 million) and a 425 million Yen grant (equivalent to
US$3.3 million).  The EEC would p,rovide a grant of ECU 12 million (US$SA
million equivalent) and the United States is considering parallel financing
support to the program. Thus about US$135 million should be available from
external financial resources in support of the second phase of the
Government's Economic and Financial Reform Program in 1988 and 1989.
Coordination with the IM
85.       The Government's 1985-87 Economic and Financial Reform Program
was supported by a thirteen month IF Stand-By Arrangement which expired in
April 1987 after being extended for an additional month. On July 29, 1987,
the IV Board approved a new thirteen month cautionary Stand-By Arrangement
as well as the first annual arrangement under the SAP. Coordination
between IDA and the IW has been close since the launching of the economic
and financial reform program and will continue during the updating of
Policy Framework Paper covering 1988-89 scheduled to take place in late
June when the second annual arrangement under the SAP is to be negotiated.
IDA and the IMP have closely collaborated on issues of mutual concern,
including the strengthening of the HEF Customs and Tax Directorates and
will continue to coordinate their efforts in the areas of financial sector
reforms.
Credit Administration r   Manaxement
86.       Disbursements under the IDA Credit would be facilitated by the
establishment of a Special Account in the Central Bank into which US$5
million would be disbursed at Credit effectiveness. Replenishment of this



- 3S -
account, up to the limit of the first tranche of SDR 21 million (US$29
million equivalent) would be made regularly on the basis of statements of
expenditure aggregated in amounts of not less than US$1 million equivalent
and on evidence that funds have been used for imports eligible for
financing under the Credit. The Govezrment s Economic and Financial
Coordinating Coamittee (CCEF), which has coordinated the preparation of the
reform program, would have the overall responsibility for its
implementation and for the mobilization and use of external financial
assistance. To support the CCEF in this task, a small secretariat is to be
created, headed by a secretary-general. The Central Bank would review
import declarations to verify eligibility for financing, prepare and
certify the withdrawal applications.
Procurement and Disbursements
87.       The proposed Credit would finance imports other than those
intended for military use. Petroleum products and food items are incOided
up to a maximum total of 25 percent each of disbursements of the proposed
Credit. Imports and distribution of goods would be handled through normal
commercial channels selected by the importers. Direct imports by the
public sector would follow public procurement regulations; which call for
international competitive bidding would be required for amounts exceeding
US$500,000 equivalent. The proposed Credit would finance only CIF costs of
eligible imports subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid
for on or after the date of Credit signing.
88.       Auntervart Funds.  Local currency counterpart funds generated by
the sale of foreign exchange provided by the Credit would be included in
the national budget and subject to acceptable public finance expenditure
controlq.
89.       Auditini.  An audit report conforming to internationally accepted
standards and prepared by auditors approved by the Association, will be
submitted within six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
90.       The far-reaching Economic and Financial Reform Program carried
out by the Guinean Government since 1986 Is expected to lead to real growth
in per capita incomes of about 1 percent per annum over the next five years
(see para. 72) and create the institutional basis for more rapid growth
thereafter. Purthermore, such income growth would be achieved with greater
equity as the realignment of relative prices that is taking place as a
result of the reforms will benefit in the first instance the rural
population, which accounts for nearly three-quarters of Guinea's population
(para. 28). Compensatory measures in the context of the Social Dimensions
of Adjustment component would ease the transitional costs as terms of trade
shift away from the urban, public sector while complementary programs would
seek to enhance the participation of the poor in future growth (paras



- 36 -
63-70). The efficiency gains in public administration expected from civil
service reforms, from reforms in public finance management and in the
parastatal sector should improve the responsiveness of the public sector
and thereby enhance the productivity of the private sector investments.
91        The Government's program has two major risks, however, which
could hamper realization of the benefits described above. The principal
risks of the program ares
(i)       A sharp decline in the international aluminum (bauxite)
Price. While the medium term growth scenarios have taken
prudent price projections, a sharp downturn in international
demand would result in an aggravation of Guinea's external
balances and jeopardize the target growth rates. This risk
is mitigated by projected tightness in supply conditions in
the aluminum industry over the next two years, whicb should
reduce the likelihood a sharp decline in world prices.
Furthermore the recently negotiated pricing formula for CBG
bauxite, which prices exports at the weighted average of
prices realized in the previous two years, would protect
Guinea's export earnings and revenues against a decline in
1988 and 1989. Finally, in view of the very high ore
content of Guinean bauxite which is available at highly
competitive prices, it is unlikely that Guinea would lose
its market share in the event of a downturn in the 1990-93
period.
(ii)      The most critical factor in the continued success of the
-,      reform process is the administration's ability to execute
the adjustment protram effectively and in a timely manner.
The lack of appropriate skills, the low level of
remuneration and motivation of staff to implement the
reforms, coupled with anticipated resistance to change from
the interest lobbies could pose a challenge to the
Administration reform efforts. The appointment of a strong,
technically competent adjustment program monitoring
Secretariat to the CCEF, and the significant technical
assistance support to be provided by the proposed second
Economic Management Support Project should mnintmize this
risk.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
92.       The Bank Group has had 24 operations in Guinea including 2 Bank
loans totalling US$73.5 million and 22 IDA credits totalling US$272.5
million. In addition, IFC made two investments totalling US$15.8 million.



- 37 -
Guinea's disbursement rate compares favorably with that of other countries
at similar levels of per capita income and development.
93,       Bank Groul Operations Throuah 1984. Following two loans granted
in support of the Boke bauxite mining project the first IDA credit was
approved in the mid-1970s for pineapple production. Although technically
sound project, this project like most non-mining sector operations,
encountered enormous problems arising from the distorted pricing
environment, the inappropriate institutional framework and the severely
deteriorated physical infrastructure. In the late 19709 the Bank Group
began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon broad
priorities agreed with the Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector.
94.       The first Power Project (FY81) aimed at the rehabilitation of the
Conakry power system followed by a Second Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project designed to strengthen the power utility and prepare a
major hydroelectric project to meet electricity demand in the early 1990s.
A water supply project (FY79) provided similar assistance, and was the
precursor to the Conakry Urban Development project (FY84). The
successfully completed Second Highway Project was followed by Highways III
(FT84), which includes the reconstruction of the country's priority road
link and continues the maintenance and rehabilitation program under a
revamped highway organization. Implementation of the renovation works
under the Conakry Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. The Industrial
Rehabilitation Promotion Project (FY81) was reoriented in 1986 after the
change in regime, to promote small and medium private enterprises. Other
operations to assist efforts to promote private investment include the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84). A rice development project
which supported smallholder production in a pilot area of the Forest zone
and three regional rice research centers became effective in April 1980. A
livestock development project, approved in FY81, was subsequently cancelled
due to implementation difficulties linked to government controls on cattle
marketing and lack of counterpart funds. The successful PY79 First
Education project was followed by a Second Education Project. The latter
is currently being redesigned with IDA assistance in light of a new sector
strategy that better responds to the new Guinean context.  IFC has made
two loans (AREDOR diamond and SIGMAR granite mining companies) and two
investments (BICI-GUI a joint-venture bank and AREDOR diamond mining
company) in Guinea.
95.       Bank Group Operations Since 1984. Since 1984, the major change
in Government policy orientation has enabled the Bank to expand its
operations in Guinea. In the agticulture sector, the Government and the
Association have agreed on a policy which emphasizes support for
smallholders including marketing and financial incentives, and access to
modern technology and applied research. This led to the preparation of the
Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project and the Agricultural Services



- 38 -
Project, approved by the Executive Directors in November 1985. A second
livestock credit, incorporating the lessons of the first project, was
approved on July 8, 1986 but became effective only in July 1987 due to
delays encountered in testing ministry staff and appointing senior project
staff. A National Seeds Project supporting the setting up of the first
national seed production system in Guinea was approved by the Executive
Directors on November 16, 1987. In the minina sector, the Bank is
providing technical advice to the Government for possible diversification
of activities through the Mineral Sector Management Project approved by the
Executive Directors in November 1987. A transport sector operation,
including a follow-up to the successful port project, was cpproved in June
1987. A project to improve rural health services and overall sector
management, with family planning activities, was approved in July, 1987.
96.       To support the Government's far-reaching reforms, the Executive
Directors-approved a Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management
(Credit 1559-GUI) in March 1985 and a first structural adjustment operation
to Guinea in February 1986 (Credits 1659-GUI and A-ll GUI). The Technical
Assistance project centered principally in the Ministries of Plan and
International Cooperation and Economy and Finance, had as its main
components the strengthening of macroeconomic management and training of
local cadres. Whereas many of the project's outputs were successfully
completed, the institutional development and training component was only
partially Implemented owing to delays in Ministry reorganization and the
appointment of counterpart staff. In addition to these measures in support
of the first phase of the structural adjustment program, the Bank has
sought to enhance the employment creation impact of the program through a
priority public works program in Conakry. An IFC equitv investment of
US$1.0 million was approved in BICI-GUI, a multi-purpose bank sponsored by
the Government and the Banque Nationale de Paris, and one of three new
banks established after the closure of the former state-owned banks.
97.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national,
sector and project levels. More specifically the Bank Group's targets are:
(i) supporting policy reform through SALs and sector operations which in
turn contribute to a more coherent, higher quality and more effective
lending program; (ii) providing technical assistance to assist in the
implementation of policy reforms; (iii) promoting economic growth through
selective rehabilitation and investments in support of directly productive
private sector activities, Including physical and social infrastructure and
agricultural support services; and (iv) coordinating external aid and
mobilizing donor support, especially non-project assistance for structural
adjustment.



- 39 -
RECMNKENDATION
98.       1 am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Asreement of the Association;
99.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the propesed
Development Credit.
Barber S. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 24, 1988
Attachments



- 40 -                                ANNEX I
40                         P~~~~~~a~ge  -1!o  4
Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may    Totalfertility rate - Average number of children that
vary among countries or within one country over    would be born alive to a woman during her lifetime,
time. For instance, different countries define 'urban    if during her childbearing years she were to bear
area" or "safe water" in different ways. For more    children at each age in accordance with prevailing
detailed definitions, see the technical notes to the    age-specific fertility rates.
World Development Indicators.                  Infant (aged 0-I) mortality rate - Number of infants
per thousand live births. in a given year, who die
AREA (thousand square kilometers)               before reaching one year of age.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and    Child (aged 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
inland waters.                                  of children, aged 1-4, per thousand children in the
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-   same age group. in a given year.
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and    Family planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
kitchen gardens or lying fallow, as a percentage of    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
total.                                          ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
ning program.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - 1986 GNP per capita    Family planning - users (percentage of married wm-
estimates at current market prices, calculated by the    en) - Percentage of married women of childbearing
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas.    age who are practicing, or whose husbands are
practicing, any form of contraception. Child-bearing
POPULATION AND VfTAL STATISTCS                 age is generally 15 to 44, although for some coun-
Total population - mid-year (millions), 1986 data.  tries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    groups.
countries follow different definitions of urban pop-
ulation which may affect comparability of data    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
among countries.                               Index offoodproduction per capita (1979- 81 = 1W1)
P'opulation growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
tions.                                         seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Life e.xpectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a    mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the    trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
same throughout its life.                       They include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals, vegetables,
Population projections                          oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
Population in 2000 - Projections of population    livestock products. Agegate production of each
given total population by age and sex. fertility and    country is based on nadional average producer price
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and    weights.
migration in the base year 1980.                Per capita supply of calories - Computed from energy
Stationary population - Projected population level    equivalent of net food supplies available in a coun-
when zero population growth is achieved: i.e., the    try, per capita, per day. Available supplies comprise
birth rate is constant and is equal to the death rate,    domestic production, imports less exports, and
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    changes in stock. Net supplies exclude animal feed,
zero.                                           seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in food
Population density, agricultural land - Population per    processing, and losses in distribution.
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    Per capita supply ofprotein (grams per day) - Protein
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14    content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
years, working age group 15-64 years, and people of    supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
65 years and over as percentages of population.  all countries, established by United States Depart-
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand    ment of Agriculture, provide for minimum allow-
population.                                     ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    grams of animal or pulse protein.
population.                                     Population per physician - Population divided by the



- 41 -                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
number of practicing physicians qualied from a    and rural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
medical whool at university level.             living quarters, as a percentage of all dwellings
PopulauWon per nursing person - Pbpulation divided by
the number of practicing griduate nurses,. assistant    EDUCATION
nure practical nurses and nursing auxilaries.   Enrollnent rates
Popultion per hospital bed - Population divided by  Prinary school enrolmnent - total, male andfemate
the number of hospital beds available in public and    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
pnvate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    percentage of school-age children as defined by each
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments per-    country, and reported to Unesco. While many coun-
manently staffed by at least one physician.    tries consider primary school age to be 6-11 years,
Access to safe water (percentage of population) -    others use different age groups. Fot some countries
total, urban. and rurat - People (total, urban, and    with universal education, gross enrollment may ex-
rural) with reasonable access to safe water supply    ceed 100 percent since some pupils are younger
(includes treated surface waters or untreated but    or older than the country's own standard primary
uncontaminated water such as that from springs,    school age;
sanitary wells, and protected boreholes). In an urban  Second&y school enrollment - total, male andfem-
area this may be a public fountain or standpost    ate - Computed in a similar manner, but intluding
located not more than 200 meters away. In rural    pupils enrolled in vocational, or teacher training
areas this implies that members of the household do    secondary schools. The age group is usualy 12 to 17.
not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, and sconday - Total
fetching water.                                stuidents enrolled in school divided by the total
number of teachers.
LABOR FORCE                                       Percentage pupis reaching grade six - The percent-
Total labor force (miltions) - Economnically active,    age of children starting primary school, that contin-
including armed forces and unemployed but exclud-    ue until grade six.
ing housewives and students.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percent-   INCOME, CONSUMPrION, AND POVERTY
age of total labor force.                       Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil
Agridture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    equivalent) - Annual consunption of commercial
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    primary energy (coal, lignite, petroklum, natural gas,
labor force.                                    and hydro, nuclear and geothemal elericity).
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Income distribion - Income (both in cash and kind)
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    accruing to prcentile groups of households ranked
a percentage of total labor force.              by total household income.
Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
- Participation rates are the percentage of population    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons.
of all ages in the labor force. These are based on ILO  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
data on the age-sex structure of the population.  Average circulation of a "daily, general interest
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    newspaper," defined as a news penodical published
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    at least four times a werk.
15-64).                                        Estinated absolute poverty income level (USS per
capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
HOUSING                                         level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Average size of household (persons per household) -    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
total,' urban, and rural - A household consists of a    are not affordable.
group of individuals who share living quarters and    Estimated populatin below absolute poverty income
main meals.                                    level (percent) - Percentage of urban and rural pop-
Percenvige of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,    ulations who live in "absolute poverty."



- 42-                                 ANEX I
1987 SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA SHEET                         Page 3-of 4
WUINEA
Reference Groups (PRE)
most
Recent                    Lower mid
i968       1973    Estimate   Low-income        income
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    245.9        245.9      245.9
Agricultural (% of total)         18.6        18.6        18.6
GNP PER CAPITA (current US$)                                     a      260        820
POPULATiON AD VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)          4.t37       4.769      6.331
Urban pop. (X of total)              12         1S         22          22         36
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        1.8        2.2         2.1        2.5
Urban                                        5.6        5.8         3.8        4.2
Life expect.,at birth (yre)         35          38         40          60         58
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                   8, 288
Stationary pop. (thou)                               24.044
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                91         104         132        349        284
Pop. age structure (%):
O-i4 yrs                          43          43         43          37         39
15-64 yrs                         5           54         54          59         55
6  and above                       3           3          3           4          6
Crude birth rate (per thou)         46          46         SO          29         36
Crude death rate (per thou)         29          27         24          10          11
Total fertility rate               5.9         8.9        6.0         3.2        3.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)       196         179        153          72         82
Child death rate (per thou)         53          48         34           9          11
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)
Users (% of married women)
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81 * 1O0)              .          109        100         115         108
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)             1.899       1.925      1.731       2.339      2.514
Proteins (grams per day)          39          40         37          55         s6
Pop, per physician (thou)                                 8.1         8.9        6.9
Pop, per nurse (thou)              4.8         4.4        6.2         2.4        1.4
Pop, per hospital bed (thou)                   0.7        0.6         1.1        0.8
Access to safe water
(X of population):  Total                     10         20
Urban                    69         91
Rural                     3          2
Population Growth            Infant Mortaliy         Primory School Enrollment
4                          *0
S.S - -  -                                                            ,     , 
2                                   isne
4011 WIt...
C  94n 1 m93s n too0oQ|tQ  2U



-43-                                ANNEX I
1987 SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA SHEET                       Pag'e 4of 4
GUINEA
Rdeference Groups (CRE)
most
Recent                    Lower mid
1965       1973    Estimate   Low-income       1ncome
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)         2,026      2.314       2.895
Female (%)                        42         42         41          31         29
Agriculture (%)                   87         84          81         72         es
Industry (%)                       6          8          9          13         16
Participation rate (%):
Total                             Si         49          47         41         35
Male                              59         58        S           54         49
Female                            43         41         38          28         20
Age de,pendency ratio              0.8        0.9        0.9         0.7        0.8
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                             ..         ..
Urban                             ..         ..
Rural                             ..         ..
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
total                             ..                      5 .. .b
Urban                             ..         ..
Rural                             ..         ..
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    3          30          32         97         103
Male                                40         44         109        110
Female                   9          20         20          84         97
Secondary: Total                   5         14          13         32         40
Male                   9          20         20          41         48
Female                 2           7          7          25         39
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           41         36         31          36         32
Secondary                         24         23          19         18         20
Pupils reaching grade 6 (X)         ..         ..         60          49         71
INCOME. CONSUMTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)              56         55         53         310,       345
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households                          ..          ..
Highest 20%                       ..         ..
Lowest 20%                        ..         ..
Lowest 40%                        ..         ..
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                             ..         ..
Rural                             ..         ..
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                             ..         ...
Rural                             ..         ..
Passenger cars/thou pop.           2.2        2.1          ..        0.3        4.0
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)           ..        1.0          *-       16.0       14.0
IECSE August 1987
Not avatebla. Noet Mast ea estmats of poet letie  nd GP o ouPta a to 1for I Is otetwse ntd.
G eup aV0190* et bpUltli wegted. Coitety eowta dosnds an date aelalbility aWd ts cot unim. Unls 6tamiss ntetd.
1= tafet to anv yete batwen IOU asd IM 1W between 10Oa 197 ;d most moenat estimate between 10 and 1M.
e. eumatad to be befow $430. b. 1M.



- 44 -
Table 1                        ~~~~~ANNEX II
Table 1                                     Page 1 of 3
GUINEA: DALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in OUS mtIlons)
1986    1967    19m       1969    1990    1991    1992    1998 1
* t.-- p r              o j *  c t I o n                  I
Tradebalance                           168.8   116.8      6.it    76.8    96.6    79.4    73.6    79.1 I
Exports, fob                          554.6    68a.9   548.0   591.6   612.6   615.6   630.2   646.6 l
of which: Bauxite                    873.9   892.0   343.4   348.8   841.8    386.6   841.8   346.8 I
Iports, citf                         -461.2  -407.6  -491.2  -513.8  -516.0  -538.0  -556.6  -578.8 I
Public 1e trt4                      -2 U.9   -184.5  -182.4  -190.1  -198.1  -201.9  -209.9  -217.9
Mlangtt Co p ntes                   -10.8.  -124.7  -128.S  -127.7  -124.1  -128.2  -130.9  -130.0
Pbict Imports                       -129.3  -168.3  -180.4  -196.1  -198.1  -207.9  -21C.0  -224.7
Servlces A private transfers          -222.2  -283.8  -235.4  -289.6  -287.9  -242.7  -249.8  -254.1 1
Non-ftctr sorvios, net                -60.7   -92.0   -79.0   -68.5   -82.7   -68.8   -85.7   -67.8 I
Factor s*rvices, net                 -142.2  -181.6  -140.8  -141.9  -144.0  -148.2  -153.9  -154.8 I
I 2nterest on reerves, or                 O.6      1.9     1.9      2.8      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.8
|  Interest due                         -4J.8   -46.1   -61.6   -62.5   -86.5   -72.2   -78.4   -t7.6
of which:
I    Int on ond-86 publie debt          -39.2   -44.1   -48.2   -36.5   -86.4   -33.6   -28.9   -23.9 1
I    Interest on WuSS rescheduling      -9.8   -15.5   -15.5   -15.4   -16.7   -18.5   -10.7    -7.6
I    Intereet on 1966 rescheduling                        -7.1    -B.9    -6.8    -6.7    -5.6    -4.8
m Mining companies                      -89.8   -62.4   -51.9   -49.9   -45.6   -44.4   -43.1   -41.8
!  Other prIvate                        -19.2   -28.2   -28.6   -31.8   -82.7   -34.4   -88.8   -38.2 I
Private transfer., net                  0.7   -19.5   -16.1   -14.2   -19.3   -10.7   -11.1   -11.4
M Mining companies, nt                   10.4    -8.6    -8.9    -9.1    -9.1    -9.1    -9.1    -9.1 1
-  Other                                 -9.7   -10.9    -7.2    -6.1    -1.2    -1.6    -2.0    -2.8 !
lofficial transfer.                      40.4    45.0    59.6    56.0    58.2    69.6    64.6    66.2 T
iCurrent account balance                -78.5   -72.0  -127.9  -105.8   -62.4   -102.4   -111.4  -115.7
iCapital ovements                       -13.0    -1.4    19.5    28.1    23.7    16.2    24.7    29.8 1
I Public MLT                             31.6    16.2    30.2    86.6    88.0    23.0    22.4    31.1
I  Drawings                             151.4   129.9   157.0   160.7   164.4   178.6   182.0   191.0 1
Amortization, total                -119.8  -111.7  -126.6  -122.1  -126.4  -150.5  -159.0  -169.9
of which;
Amortization, nd-88 debt         -119.8  -111.7  -124.6  -120.1  -124.4  -132.5  -140.9  -138.4
Amortiztion, 1988 rescheduling    -4.4    -8.6    -8.6    -8.9   -16.8   -38.5   -43.0   -43.0
AIort atlon  19S8 rescheduling                       -2.0    -2.0    -2.0   -17.6   -17.8   -22.4 1
Public, short ter                    -16.2
Mining companies                     -34.4   -24.8   -16.2   -25.6    -" .2   -22.8   -17.7   -26.3
other private                          5.9      5.2      5.5    10.0    18.9    16.9    20.0    24.0 1
Other K A Errorn A Omissions             0.2    14.3       0.6    15.2                                     I
lOverall balance                        -91.8   -59.1  -197.8   -67.0   -56.7   -68.2   -68.7   -85.9 I
iFinancing                               91.8    69.1   107.6    87.0        4.6    -8.6    -1.0    -2.3 1
IDA and cotinanclirs  SALI            31.5    44.9    67.7
Lines of Credit                                 2.2    19.0    10.0                                      1
IDA and cofinanclira, SALII                             34.0    76.4    16.0                             I
Changes In arrears, net 2/            -5.5      7.5   -32.8    -4.0                                      1
Changes In reserves                  -12.5   -21.9    14.2   -15.4   -13.2    -6.6    -1.0    -2.3 I
I     IPIF net                           10.5    14.7    28.4       4.9   -13.2    -8.6    -1.9    -2.3 1
l o which: SAF                  10.5    14.7    23.4   1l.5                                   -2.5 l
I     Other                             -23.0   -35.7    -9.2   -20.8          0        0        0        0
I Debt Rellef                             7.8     25.5    24.2                                              I
IFinanoing gap                            9.9     0.0      6.o      o.o    53.9    94.6    87.7    68.2 l
I11emorandum:                                                                                               I
JGDP (US * millions)                   1915.9  2160.4  2621.3  2834.8  2862.1   2974.0   8107.5  3289.1 j
Resource balance as X of CDP             1.2      1.6    -9.9    -0.2        9.S    -0.1    -0.4    -0.6
Interest payments as X of COP            2.3      2.2      2.4     2.2      2.4      2.4      2.5      2.4 I
ICurrent account balance as X of CDP     -4.1    -8.8    -C.1    -3.7    -2.9    -3.4    -3.6    -3.5 
IDebt service due as X of exports        33.6    29.6    39.4    31.3    81.3    35.6    37.6    36.1
IReserves in months of non-PIP,
I  non-mining imports                     1.1      2.4     1.4      2.3      3.2      3.6      3.6      8.7
I 



ANNEX I1
Page 2 c
Tabl- 2
GUINEA: EXPORTS AND IUPORTS
(in acurent US8 mIliIons)
1998    197       988    1999    1990    19l    1992    1998 I
*st           ~~~p r o 3 * a t I o n *         
_, sat .. --. ...pro jec. ons-... .-. .j
Exports, fob                   654.5 SU.S   548.1   191.6   612.6   615.6   680.2   049.8 |
Bauxite                       878.9   892.0   a43.4   848.9   341.9   3s0.9   841.9    4 848
Alumina                        87.9    87.8    84.8    98.9    96.5    88.0    86.6    91.2
Diamonds                       60.9    59.8    59.4    64.9    64.8    04.8    64.8    e4.8
Gold                           11.2    17.9    24.5    84.0    4B.9    47.8    48.7    49.5
Coff.e                         19.8    14.1    17.1    20.2    24.5    80.3    89.0    40.2
Fish                            09      6.0      8.6    11.8    28.4    28.4    29.4    88.1 I
Other                          11.8    18.8    16.4    18.6    20.7    20.8    21.0    21.2 1
Total imports                   451.2   467.6   491.2   518.8    16.9  65.0   566.0   570.6
Foodstuffs                    78.6    02.8    02.8    96.8    59.9    61.2    62.6    64.
Consumr 1/                   898.8    69.4    61.9    656.5       .       0.e 6    7.6    68.7
Intermedat                   168.7   194.5   215.7   281.6   282.4   289.2   240.8   254.8
Petroleum                     55.6    05.8    07.8    F6.0    65.2    71.8    77.2    88.7
Capital                       70.8    75.0    88.5    90.9    9a.2    97.8   102.8   167.1
1/ Includes purchase of mliltary equipment of approximately US8 40 millon In 1980 ande
US8 6.7 million In 1987.
Table 8
GUINEA: EXPORTS AND IMPORTS
(n millIons of 1980 US8)
1986    197    1988    1989    1990    1991    19m 2    199
est.                pr o Je  t I o n  s-
II
Exports, fob                   554.5   965.6   683.2   028.0   080.2   6B.8   077.0   681.8
Bauxite                       878.9   424.2   445.7   421.6   421.5   421.8   421.5   421.8 I
Alumina                        87.9    82.6    87.2    87.2    87.2    98.8    90.2    91.8
Diamonds                       60.9    52.4    44.9    40.2    40.2    40.2    40.2    48.2 I
Gold                           11.2    14.7    18.2    24.5    85.6    86.0    86.7    85.6 1
Coff..                         19.8    19.8    20.6    23.4    27.5    88.6    41.8    41.8 I
Fish                            0.0     0.0      3.0    10.7    21.8    28.4    25.8    28.8 1
Other                          11.8    12.0    18.9    15.6    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Total imports                   41.2 4.4.1   427.2   40.9   489.8   446.4   468.4   461.1 |
Foodstuffs                    73.0    ?6.0    e7.4    e.2    e1.o    eo.6    ss.           60.
co ,wm  1/                    Be.*    es.4    52.1    52.7    $a.7    54.3    54.8    55.2
Interediate                  1s.7   176.9   181.8   188.4   191.3   19s.s   199.9   204.5 
Petrole                       65.0    62.0    56.4    6e.3    se.5    6T.         5 T      S.0 l7.
Capital                       I0.8    e7.8    70.4    73.2    78.7    ?9.9    02.0    se.o
Mmeorandoum
IExport Price Index             106.0    98.5    98.6    94. 1    98.8    92.6    98.0    95.1
Import Price Index              190.0   167.7   115.0   119.1   117.5   120.1   122.8   126.5
Tors of Trade Index             100.0    89.      758.    79.09   79.5 77.0675              758.
11/ Includes  rchase of milIltary equipment of approximately USS 40 million In 1980 and
I  US$ 0.7 millIon In 1987.



- '.6-                                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Tablt 4
GWINFAE FINANCIAL OPERATIW4S OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(in billions of Gulnan Francea)
1906    1967   lw        1969    1990    1991    1m         1093   1969J
*St.  -  ----proJect i 0 n a   -- - --  1993
1Total revenues                         77.n   120.5   149.7   198.0   211.7   235.1   260.4   291.5 I  14.8
Tax revenues                          74.6   113.5   140.1   161.0   199.1   1,2.2   247.1   277.8 |  14.7 1
Mining sector revenues 1/            64.1    92.8    67.9    111.0   198.4  1O.4   112.9   123.3            7.9
of which: C8        .              47.4    70.2    68.6    76.8    78.9    75.4    80.6    66.4 I
Non-mining sector rev_nue             10.7    20.9    52.2    78.9    95.7   116.8   184.2   154.5    24.2
Txes on income and profIts           1.2     1.7      4.0      6.9    12.1    21.2    26.5    83.1    5 53.0
Taxes on goods and sorviess          8.9    10.1    87.4    55.6    67.9    77.9    68.0    99.9 1  21.7
of which: petroleum products       0.0     1.7    24.0    87.6    45.6    49.6    52.6    52.9    171.
Taxes ou international trade         5.4     6.4    10.8    12.8    18.9    16.3    16.7    16.8 1  12.2
Other                               0.2      9.7      9.6      1.2      1.8     2.4      8.0      8.2 l  898:
Uon-tax revenue                         8.0     7.0      9.6    12.0    12.6    12.9    18.8    18.7          7.
Total Expenditure                     187.7   166.9   240.9   278.1   864.0   882.0   8$63.0    92.0 1  10.3 1
Cutrtnt Expediture                   86.7   198.6   122.4   141.4   152.9   166.7   189.2   192.4 1   9.5 1
Wagen and Salaries                  16.2    21.8    86.6    46.1    58.9    59.4    85.2    69.8 1  18.7 1
I   Other goods and services            45.6    51.8    S7.7    44.5    48.5    52.8    68.3    60.6 1   9.9 1
Subsidle and transfers              9.5    15.3    20.2    20.0    14.6    12.9    18.1    18.7 1  -7.5
of which: *everance payment.               8.4      6.5      6.5      2.      0.8    90.0       0.0 t        I
nOrest pamnts due                   18.2    16.5    27.7    89.6    86.6    41.1    45.6    46.8 1  11.8
ptl *xpenditur                       51.9    79.1   116.5   186.7   151.1   199.3   162.6   200.2    11.1l
I                                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
i Deficit, comitment baosi             -59.9   -O6.4   -91.8   -65.O   -92.8   -98.6  -102.7  -191.2 |             I
IChanes In external arrers (red -)       8.2      1.7   -15.8    -2.1
Change" in domestic arrears (red -)              4.6    -1.9                       l                       l
Deficit cash basli                     -56.7   -56.9  -198.5   -67.1   -92.3   -98.6  -102.7  -101.2
IFinancing                              57.1    568.6     8.4    52.7    54.8    49.9    54.0    68.9
1 Foreign Financing, ne                 54.1    62.6    68.4    52.7    54.6    49.9    54.9    68.9
fraonts                               12.9    28.2    84.7    82.6    88.8    88.8    40.3    44.1 I   4.9 I
Drawings on loans                     59.0    69.8    97.5    68.6    92.1   191.5   111.0   121.8 1 
Amortization                         -88.6   -45.9   -59.8   -62.4   -49.7   -7.6   -06.4   -67.8 I   6.0
Debt relief                           27.0    10.9    11.5
Changes in amrtization arrears        -8.0             -1.9    -1.9    -1.1   -10.4   -10.9   -14.2
DOmetic Fln nctngt not                  a.o    -4.0
Finaening gap                             0        9    25.0    84.5    87.7    47.0    48.6    87.4
SL lI and cofinanciera                                16.2    89.7    19.1                             I
-  SA                                                 l. 11.1                                          I
Residual gap (- surplus)                                 -2.2    -5.2    27.8    47.0    48.6    87.4
M_ rndum:
Exchonu: ro  FC/2                     845   426.5       475      520      se5      SS      619      835 II
lGro"s domestle product, FG billion   S6l   926.8  1197.6  1474.0  1602.6  1789.8   16.8  2075.9    11.6
Revenues as X of GDP                  11.6    13.0    12.5    13.1       UAW    13.5 18. .         14.0
Non-mining revenues as X of GDP        1.6     2.8      4.4      5.2     0.9       6.?     7.1      7.4
Salaries as X of eurrent oxp.         21.0    19.9    80.1    82.6    34.7    85.8    86.2    36.8 3            1
Debt service as X of revenues        -36.7   -88.9   -62.6   -49.9   -509.   -54.9   -54.9   -51.4
Public investment as X of total exp.  87.0    42.6    49.2    49.1    49.7    50.1    50.4    51. 0 
Current deficit as X of CDP           -1.8     1.5      2.8      s.5      8.7     4.0      4.2      4.6
Deficit (commitment) as X of GOP     -9.1    -7.0    -7.6    -5.6    -5.6    -5.6    -5.4    -4.9 I
Inflation rate, CPI                   74.6   19.9   126.0   143.6   159.9    1S6.5   168.4   174.7 1   6.9 1



- 47 -
AMNE III
Page 1 of 2
NEUBIC  OP GEINEA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLZMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section 1s Timetable of Rey Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Bank.      January 1988
(b) Appraisal mission ...............   ...   March 1988
(c)  Completion of negotiations ........................a.............. May 1988
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness ............. September 1988
Section 2: Special Bank Imnlement.tion Actions
None
Section 3: Special Conditions
The first tranche, to be made available at effectiveness,
would be released upon the satisfactory conclusion of the following
specific conditions:
(a) Adoption of the revised organizational structures for the Central
Administration;
(b) Promulgation of the legal texts: (i) ending, on December 31,
1988, the administrative reserve status and eligibility to the
voluntary departure schem of public enterprise employees
currently on administrative reserve; (il) defining the severance
package to be extended to employees who, following completion of
the civil service staff testing process and the closure,
restructuring or privatization of public enterprises, will not be
retained by the civil services this severance package will
consisr of payments equivalent to no more than 24 months salary,
at salary levels of the last month of emploympnt and (iii)
extending the voluntary departure scheme to civil servants
wishing to leave public employment prior to staff testing.
(c)  Revision of the arrQtd on cement production and imports
(No.1713/ME111988)s (i) eliminating proposed cement import
licensing, the anti-dumping tax on cement imports and price
controls; and (ii) setting out a schedule for the elimination of
the import surtax on cement over a period of no more than three
years;
(d) Ratification of the new joint venture petroleum company (Socidtd
Guin6enne de Petrole) agreement;
(e) Promulgation and publication of the Public Procurement Code and
the Guinean General Accounting law;



-48-
\ Ji,llEX II1
Page 2 of 2
(f) Application of the full cost pricing formula for imported food
aid rice; and
(g) Signature of the proposed second Economic Management Support
Project.
In addition, during negotiations it was agreed that the central
departments of NEF, ZPCI and MRAFP (the Ministries of Economy and Finance,
Plan and International Cooperation, and Administrative Reform and Civil
Service), the three Ministries in charge of executing the Structural
Adjustment Program, would be reorganized and their staff confirmed in their
new positions by December 31, 1988.
It has been agreed with the Government that release of the
second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory overall progress in
implem-nting the second phase of the.Economic and Financial Reform
Program, and in particular, upon the taking of the following measures:
(a)  Enactment of finarial (including budgeting and accounting)
regulations and procedures (svstame de comatabilit6 publigue)
governing central government financial transactions;
(b) Adoption of the 1989 Budget (loi de finances), and effective
implementation of a public accounting system and submission of
report on the execution of the 1988 Budget;
(c) Adoption of the 1989-91 public investment program;
(d) Adoption of the new organizational structures for the
Decentralized Administration (administration deconcentree);
(e) Completion of testing and selection process and implementation of
decisions concerning retained and laid-off staff for all
ministries but the teaching staff of the Ministry of National
Education (including publication of results, formal nomination of
staff and signature of arrOte laying off non-selected staff);
(f) Effective implementation of a central payroll service/file at the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and establishbment of a permanent
personnel and salary monitoring and control mechanism;
(g)  Establishment of a central corporate taxpayer file on the basis
of a census of corporate taxpayers; and
(h)  Enactment of the loi cadre governing State relations with the
public enterprise sector.



49 
ANNEX IV
REULIC OF GUIE
SECOtD S§UTAL  AD
STATUS OF WRLD  N   OPERTIONS I GUA
A. Statment of Bank Loon. and IDA Credlt_ (as of April 14. 1988)
Nur Year                    Borrwer         Puroe                                  IDA     Undisburd
Twelve crdits and loans closed                                           78.19    95.26
12UI             1982       Guines          Industry RetabiIItation (IDF)         19.0.        1.76
1841-G           1988       Gulna      .    Education II                          11.01        6.88
I882-GI          1988       Gunea           Conakry Port                          18.00         .42
1488-GUI         1984       Guine           Petroloum Exploratton                  8.90        1.90
1457-GUI         1984       Guine           Highway. II                           28.00       20.92
1486-GUI         1984       Guinea          Urban I                               10.70        8.94
1466-4ut         :984       Guinea          Urban UI                               8.81        8.31
1559-GUI        18ot        Guia            Tochnical Assistanceo                  0.6         4.U
1595-WUI         198;       Gun             Pocr Engilerling II                    8.00        4.02
1635-WI         1986        Guine           Gueked4ou Asric. Dowt.                 8.66        8.59
168-UtI          18         Guilne          First Agr. Service                     7.59        1.00
1687-GUI        1980        Guinea          minerat Secor Ifahab.                  8.98        1.22
16S9-GUI        1986        Guinea          SAL I .                               24.80        5.91
1725-GUI        1987        Guinea          Livestock Sector Rehab.                9.60        9.24
815s-GUI        1987        Guie            Transprt Sector                       64.87       54.8?
1887-GUI W      1988        GuInea          Health Services Development           19.70       19.70
1864-GUI        1988        Guina           Aaricultural Seds                      9.90        9.00
T.t.l numbor of credits: 17                                              71.U0  'Dr.         i.7
Total (Net Approved) /                                                    M78.W   842.CO
of which has bien repaid to tho Bank (aort. + lintrest)               4C.14' 18.20
Total Kmo Outstanding                                                    28.86   829.SO
Total Undlebursed                                                                   _5.
O/Not 704 effective
Total approved, ropayments, and outstanding balance represent beth active and Inactive
Loane and Credits.
The approved, cancel lation, and disbursement amount* for IDA-0/IOA-7 Credits as taken fre
accounting have ben converte  to their dollag equivalents based on the current exchange rats.
B. Statement of IFC Investmnts
IFC 1988        Soct6" Mixte Aredor 4uln6, S.A.                          14.8
IK  1986         Banqu IntornationaeI pour Io Commerce et
l'Industrie do is  uide (BICI-GUI)                     1.0
IFC 1987        Socl6t6 International. deo Granite Marbres
*t Roebos Aasiml les (SIGOMR)                          0.1



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 44
50
DECI  SION OF TIE GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA'S DEVELOPENTW POLICY
I - INTRODUCTION
1.        In the quarter century before 1984, Guinea experienced continued
economic decline despite its considerable potential in agriculture, mining
and energy. The collectivist and centralizing policies pursued in that
period failed to make full use of Guinea's human resources, foster
production-oriented initiatives by the private sector or develop the
economic and social infrastructure required for a smoothly running economy.
There was a serious deterioration in the standard of living: per capita
gross domestic product dropped steadily in real terms, except between 1973
and 1979, when the bauxite industry was expanding. In 1986, Guinea's per
capita income was US$300, among the lowest in Africa.
2.        The continuous decline in output and the growth of the parallel
economy exacerbated the impact of the Government's inappropriate economic
policies and worsened the country's financial problems. Tax receipts
dropped, while subsidies to public e=terprises rose.  The return on
intestments by the Government and public enterprises was insufficient to
geuevate the funds needed to service related debts. The balance of payments
worsened, as did the external position of the Central Bank as the arrears on
foreign payments accumulated.
II - PIBST PHASE OF THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL BEFORK PROGRAM
3.        In response to the severe economic, financial and social problems,
the Military Committee for National Recovery that took power on April 3,
1984, committed itself to a path of liberalization and economic recovery.
At the end of 1985, it adopted a wide-ranging Economic and Financial Reform
Program, designed-to achieve the country's potential and ensure sustained
long-term growth. In support of the program, the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) approved a Stand-By Arrangement of SDR 33 million, while the
International Development Association (IDA) approved a structural adjustment
credit and Special Facility for Africa of SDR 38.5 million. Other donors
also provided support, while member countries of the Paris Club rescheduled
the payments in arrears at the end of 1985 and the service payments that
were to come due between January 1986 and February 1987.
Obiectives of the Reform Pronran
4.        The Government's reform program aimed to improve the system of
economic incentives and strengthen the legal and institutional environment
in order to promote initiatives by the private sector. The program included
measures to correct the significant overvaluation of the currency, establish
a new and reliable banking ay.tem to replace the state banks, liberalize



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 44
51
trade and prices, restructure the central administration, reduce employment
in the civil service and create an efficient, responsive cadre of skilled
Government employees, disengage th. state from the industrial and
commercial sectors, and increase management efficiency and performance in
the public sector.
Actions Taken and Results to Date
5.        In 1986 and 1987, Guinea made significant progress toward
establishing a free-market economy. The most radical economic reforms
involved monetary and banking adjustment, a precondition for economic
growth. As of the end of 1985 and early 1986, the Government had liquidated
the six state banks and seen the opening of new private commercial banks in
Conakry, with branches in 10 cities In the interior, replaced the Guinean
syli with the new Guinean franc (GP', reorganized the Central Bank, and
instituted a weekly foreign exchange auction. The Central Bank adopted a
flexible and realistic exchange rate policy, and the rate of exchange on the
auction market went from an average of GF 365 per US dollar to GF 428 on
average in 1987 and 450 today (April 1988). In addition, the Central Bank
initiated a credit policy to foster production, consistent with the
constraints of the balance of payments.
6.        The Government also abolished the price controls (except for rice,
petroleum products and public services,- liberalized imports and adopted a
new, more rational customs tariff in order to bring about uniformity in the
rate of protection and discourage fraud. To ensure a favorable regulatory
and institutional framework for the private sector, the administration
adopted new Petroleum, Mining and Investment Codes, as well as a new
commercial law and Labor, Electricity and Environment Codes. The Council of
Ministers also approved a new General Accounting Code (PCGG).
7.        Another Important measure what the adoption of a rolling three-
year Public Investment Program (PIP). The first PIP, which covered the
period 1987-89, emphasized private initiatives, rural development and
rebuilding of the economic infrastructure. The Government presented the
program to the Consultative Group for Guinea in March 1987. It also
privatized or closed and liquidated most public industrial or commercial
enterprises.
8.        With regard to reform of the central administration and civil
service, the Government is implementing a program that will result in better
control over the number of employees and the wage bill and that involves
restructuring the central agencies. The Government has drawn up new
regulations and begun registering the civil servants. Provisions governing
the establishment. organization and operation of public agencies have been
adopted; they establish general principles for the administration of the
civil service and the use of contract employees in public administration and
create administrative and financial divisions in the Ministries. Ten out of
27 departments have adopted new organization charts, and the desired numbers
of employees have been determined for nine departments. Of the 90,300
employees in the civil service who were registered at the end of 1985, 3,581
retired, 4,619 were given early retirement and 5,500 were placed on



ANNEE V
Page 3 of 44
52
administrative reserve status, while 1,473 elected to leave voluntarily and
14,444 in the mining sector were removed from the civil service and taken
out of the budget. Of the 60,800 employees remain.(ng in the civil service
in 1988, about 15,000 in categories B, C and D were evaluated, and about
13,000 in categorie. ', E, F and G were removed from the civil service but
not from the budgt...
9.        The IDA-funded Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Management, which is supporting the reform program, contriiuted a great deal
to the preparation of the reforms. In particular. it helped draw up the
codes and laws and the three-year PIP and helped prepare the national
accounts and macroeconomic projections necessary for understanding the
economic, financial and social structure. It has also provided support for
the training of staff at the National Center for Management Training (CNPG).
10.       Several weaknesses persist in the administration of technical
assistancet insufficient integration into the institutional environment,
inadequate training of counterpart staff, and a failure to disseminate the
goals of the technical assistance. In addition, the results of the on-the-
job training and the project's contribution to strengthening agency
structures are unclear. Further, the project was not designed to assist
vith the development of a monitoring and guidance system for the economy and
the reform program, two areas that need strengthening.
11.       Adjustment of the exchange rate and other reforms have led to
improved domestic terms of trade and have fostered a shift in resources
into the production of agricultural and other tradable goods and away from
the public sector and non-tradable goods. Agriculture has reacted
favorably to the changes in prices, especially the coffee and rice
subsectors; plantations have been rehabilitated, and more acreage is being
cultivated. The activity of small- and medium-scale enterprises,
handicraft operations and the service sector has grown remarkably. A recent
survey the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation revealed that of
the 12,000 fixed establishments registered in Conakry in the small-scale
commercial sector, 6,000 (50 percent) were created between 1984 and 1987.
These businesses have produced 21,000 new jobs, bringing the total number of
jobs in Conakry's informal sector to 40,000. Even though this increased
activity is less noticeable in the interior, it is a national phenomenon.
Inadequacies of the First Phase
12.       The commendable performance in the agricultural and small business
sectors is proof of the soundness of the directions in which the Government
has been moving under its national recovery program. At the same time, the
Government recognizes that more work is required on the path of adjustment.
Even though inflation is down from the 78 percent of 1986, it was still a
troubling 33 percent in 1987. It is true, however, that economic and
financial recovery is generally a long-term undertaking.
13.       More specifically, the Government recognizes the need to resolve
some fundamental structural problems in various areas of national economic
management, and there are large obstacles in the administrative and civil



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 44
53
service refozm to be overcome. The reform and cutbacks in the civil
service, withdrawal of the state from the productive sector and improvements
in the management of public enterprises and public finance are not yet
complete. The poor condition of the physical infrastructure, the lack of
motivation in certain ministries and the resistance of employees who feel
threatened by the reforms have slowed the design and implementation of
proposed measures. The absence of clearly defined procedures and of
automated data processing have seriously hindered installation of a
permanent system for monitoring the number of employees and controlling the
wage bill. A lack of understanding and cooperation on the part of certain
Ministries has led to slow progress in evaluating and hiring personnel,
implementing the voluntary departure program, adopting the new
organizational structures quickly,.and instituting measures to motivate
retained staff and release those employees whose services are not needed.
The Government is aware of these problems and of what must be done to
complete the restructuring of the central administration, in particular, the
development of measures for the continued decentralization of the
administration.
14.       In privatizing, liquidating and restructuring the public
enterprises, the Government has sometimes provided monopolies and excessive
incentives that do not conform to the new Investment Code. The cost of
these concessions to the economy and the public treasury has been
considerable. Coordination and control in the area of privatization need
strengthening. Moreover, the limited capacity of the administration to
implement proposed measures has slowed the reform program and the economic
liberalization. The Government needs to disseminate the objectives and
cornerstones of the reform program more widely to speed the process and
foster implementation of an institutional framework appropriate to the
development of the private sector.
15.       Substantial progress has been made in improving the collection of
customs duties. Nevertheless, management of public finances is inadequates
there was no budget law until 1988, and tax and customs revenues are too low
except from the bauxite and aluminum sector. Economic and financial
recovery cannot be consolidated without correcting these weaknesses.
Obstacles to Develogment
16.       Over the last 25 years, the Guinean economy has relied very
heavily on the exploitation of bauxite resources. Agriculture has declined,
and the public manufacturing sector has recorded only mediocre results.
The economy cannot continue to depend on exports of bauxite and aluminum.
Instead, economic growth will be closely linked to the country's ability to
realize the unexploited potential of agriculture (which is considerable),
fishing, to diversify the mining industry (particularly, gold and
diamonds), and to promote small- and medium-scale private enterprises.
Mobilizing Guinea's economic potential means, however, overcoming serious



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 44
54
obstacles, including the inadequacy of the economic infrastructure, the
shortage of human resources and the external public debt burden.
17.       Despite the rehabilitation efforts undertaken under the PIP, the
basic economic infrastructure (transportation, telecomunications, energy
and water) is generally in poor condition and is hampering economic
development. The inadequacies of the transportation network in particular
continue to be a major obstacle to economic recovery. Agricultural
development cannot be achieved without a sound infrastructure.
18.       Another constraint on long-term development is the educational
system, which has not adapted to meet the need of the private sector for
occupational training of the labor force, without which its expansion is
constrained. The educational system also does not support the creation of
an efficient and streamlined development administration.
19.       The economic and financial outlook in the near to medium term is
precarious. The contribution of the bauxite and aluminum subsector to
Government revenues is projected to drop appreciably in 1988, due to the new
agreement signed with the foreign partners of the Compagnie des Bauxites de
Guinee (CBG). In addition, servicing of the large external debt is
absorbing a large portion of export revenues.
III - SECOND PHASE OF THE ECONOMIC AND FINNCIAL REFOM PROGRAM
20.       Under the first phase of the reform program, the Government
committed itself to liberalizing the economy. Under the current second
phase, the focus is on broadening and deepening the reforms already
undertaken in order to overcome the constraints on economic and social
development and to mobilize the country's growth potential.
Develogment Strategy
21.       The Government's objective in the 1988-93 period is to achieve an
average annual real growth rate of 4.0 percent in gross domestic product
(GDP), a level that would mean a rise in per capita real income of around
1.2 percent per year. Reaching these targets would mean a significant
improvement in the standard of living. The Government intends to intensify
the execution of its policies to free the economy from state intervention
and will extend the free-market economic framework. Specifically, the
Government's development strategy during the second phase involvest
(i) consolidating the liberal economic system by disengaging the state
from productive activities and expanding the incentives for the
private sector production;
(ii) improving the management of the national economy by allocating
resources in the public sector efficiently, implementing
administrative and civil service reforms, and restructuring and
rehabilitating public finances; and



' ANNEX V I
Page 6 of 44
55
(iii) removing the obstacles that hinder mobilization of the potential
for economic growth by implementing appropriate sectoral
policies, restorinlg the economic infrastructure, upgrading the
human resources, ensuring that the neediest sectors participate
in the growth and protecting the most vulnerable groups.
The steps planned to implement this strategy are contained in the attached
matrix of economic policy measures.
Consolidation of the Liberal Economic System
22.       In keeping with the new liberal orientation of the economy, the
private sector has primary responsibility for economic growth. The
Government will support the private sector bys (i) maintaining economic
policies that encourage private businesses to increase production; (ii)
guiding these same businesses toward sectors that are priorities in the
adjustment and economic development strategy; and finally (iii) eliminating
the principal obstacles to the creation of a dynamic private sector.
23.       These three objectives, which were also integral to the first
phase of the structural adjustment program, will be executed during the
second phase through thet (i) pursuit of a flexible policy in the area of
the exchange rate and harmonization of the tariff rates; (ii)
liberalization of trade and prices; (iii) promotion of private investment
and small- and medium-scale enterprises; (iv) disengagement of the state
from the productive sectors; and (v) Improvement of the legal framework and
institutional environment.
Flexible Uxchane Rate Policy ad famonization of the
customs Tariffs
24.       The progressive devaluation of the Guinean franc since January 6,
1986, is evidence of an active and realistic exchange policy. The evolution
of the exchange rate will continue to reflect the supply of foreign exchange
and the reserve objectives of the Central Bank, the demand for foreign
exchange of the economic agents, the inflation differential with trading
partners and other macroeconomic variables. The Government intends to
strengthen the policy of a flexible national exchange rate as a means of
protecting national production, which will become more competitive with
imports. The initial objective is to maintain the differential between the
official and parallel market rates at less than 10 percent.
25.       On January 15, 1986, the Government adopted a new customs tariff
regime that simplified and substantially lowered the tariffs. The base rate
is now 10 percent (consisting of a fiscal duty of 7 percent and a customs
duty of 3 percent). This rate is one of the lowest in the subregion.
Rather than adjust upwards the tariff rates to increase revenue, the
Government will improve the rate of collection of duties and taxes. Already
in 1987, the tax receipts from increased a significant 80.9 percent,
compared to a nominal increase of 43.5 percent from private .
Strengthening the collection rate is indispensable both for increased state



ANNEX V
Page 7-of 44
56
revenues and the health of the national currency, as well as the
harmonization of effective protection.
26.       Although the Investment Code was officially promulgated on January
3, 1987, the privatizations and special agreements between the state and
private operators sometimes allowed certain exemptions, protection and
other incentives that were not always justified. Henceforth, only
incentives provided for in the Investment Code will be granted. Moreover,
the Government will try over time to eliminate or reduce in value those
incentives previously granted.
27.       Realistic exchange rates and prices, vigorous enforcement of the
still weak customs tariff and uniform application of the Investment Code
will progressively reduce the distortions in the Guinean economy and
harmonize the effective protection rates at a level compatible with the
liberal economic policy, while at the same time ensuring the productive
sectors have a real comparative advantage over the long term.
Trade and Price Liberalization
28.       During the first phase of the Economic and Financial Reform
Program, the Government removed the controls on distribution and import-
export channels and allowed the market to govern prices, except in the case
of rice, petroleum products and public services (electricity, vater,
telecommunications and public transportation). The Government also enacted
a commercial law to organize the business sector and put into operation a
monitoring mechanism to enhance the cost and quality control of Guinean
29.       In the second phase of the program, the Government will extend
and consolidate the liberalization of marketing and pricing. In the area
of prices, the policy of decontrol followed since 1985 will be reinforced by
the enactment of a law that reconfirms the rule of free pricing; this law is
now being prepared. The intent is to avoid monopolies and distortions of
competition and to eliminate the need for prior approvals or controls over
prices. The law will, however, identify a limited category of strategic
and/or socially sensitive goods that will receive special attention In the
administration of marketing and prices.
30.       As to rice, there are three sources of suppliess local parboiled
rice, which is preferred by consumers; rice imported by private traders;
and rice provided as food aid. Supply and demand determine the prices of
local and privately imported rice, and the costs of production or
importation are reflected in the prices. Food aid rice has been subject to
administrative wholesale price-setting. However, at the beginning of
January 1988, the Government increased the administrative price from 100 GF
per kg to 120 GF per kg. Henceforth, the price is to be aligned with the
price of rice imported by traders. The Government will also initiate
measures to stimulate greater local production in order to attain self-
sufficiency over time. Not only will food aid rice be sold at a price that
reflects conditions in the world market, but the duties on rice will also
be adjusted should world prices fall low enough to threaten local



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 44
57
production and the income of farmers. The Government will complement this
policy with progressive increases in the nominal wages of workers.
31.       The prices of petroleum products already reflect the costs of
importation, taking into account the exchange rate. The Government raised
the price by 80 percent at the beginning of January 1988 when it increased
the special tax on petroleum products from 25 GF per liter to 135 GP per
liter. This increase will limit the growth of consumption, reduce
clandestine re-exportation to neighboring countries, and increase and
diversify Government revenues. During the second phase of the reform '
program, the Government will pursue a flexible policy on the pricing and
taxation of petroleum products in keeping with its objective of boosting
Government revenue.
32.       With regard to the pricing of water, electricity and public
transportation, the Government will initially pursue a rate adjustment
policy aimed at producing sufficient receipts to cover the costs of
production so that Government budget subsidies can be minimized. Over the
long term, the goal is to cover the debt service generated by investments in
the sector. This new policy for public service rates is an essential
component of the restructuring program for the enterprises concerned, which
is expected to begin by October 1988.
33.       In the area of marketing and foreign trade, the Government will
complete and disseminate the legal framework for free trade put into place
as a result of the new commercial law. It also intends to accelerate the
processing of import requests from businessmen for the weekly foreign
currency auctions, the goal being to eliminate any constraints on
competition in the trade sector. In this context, the Government will soon
initiate a study of the import channels for goods and services.
34.       Other measures include strengthening the Chamber of Commerce,
encouraging companies to form employer associations and studying the
mechanisms for promoting exports (such as export bonuses, product marketing
assistance, credit facilities, temporary intake and drawbacks).
Promotion of Private Investment and Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises
35.       The Government will encourage private investment, an indispensable
instrument in the privatization of the economy, by harmonizing the
effective protection rates, liberalizing trade and prices, maintaining a
realistic exchange rate, and applying the provisions of the Investment Code,
which are designed to support the economic liberalization. Another measure
will be improved access of the productive sectors to credit. The Central
Bank has modified the policy on foreign credit lines to allow preferential
credit for small- and medium-scale enterprises, without increasing the
pressure on the auction market.
36.       The Government will pursue an active savings and bank deposit
policy. Realistic interest rates (para. 80) and appropriate banking
conditions will be key measures. The Government will also simplify the



ANNEX V
Page'9 of 44
58
administrative procedures and provide sustained support for small- and
medium-scale enterprises, particularly in terms of supplying rehabilitated
and efficient public services. Finally, small- and medium-scale
enterprises, which are vital to the diversification of the economy and to
the creation of jobs will be encouraged by streamlining procedures and
providing special treatment in public procurement, especially in
construction.
Goverrment Withdrwal from the Productive Sectors
37.       Reform of the public enterprise sector involves a broad program of
restructuring, privatization and liquidation. Of the 178 public-
enterprises in existence in 1985, 70, including 6 banks, have been closed
and liquidated, and 21 have been privatized. During the second phase of the
reform program, 51 enterprises (ORAN and its network of 50 ohydroveutes'
will be privatized or liquidated following the creation of a new petroleum
company, which is expected to be operational by the end of 1988. As to the
remaining 36 enterprises, the Government will initiate a second program of
restructuring, privatization and liquidation.
38.       The objective of disengagement is to reduce the state's portfolio
essentially to public utilities and services and Joint-venture mining
companies. Within the framework of the second program of restructuring,
privatization and liquidation, the Government will close and liquidate any
enterprise in which no interest has been shown by the end of December 1988.
39.       Because the Guinean private sector has limited absorption
capacity, at the same time that Guinean shareholding is to be promoted, the
Government'will temporarily retain minority participations in some companies
that are or will be privatized, with the intention of divesting later.
Government participation will not, however, afford the enterprises any
unusual rights or privileges. By July 1989, the Government will develop a
system for monitoring and managing its shareholdings. In particular, it
will draw up transparent mechanisms for divesting the temporary
shareholdings to small Guinean shareholders.
40.       The Government has achieved the quantitative objectives of its
disengagement program. However, in many cases the liquidations and
privatizations have not been monitored, notably in terms of sales of
assets, payment of claims and the elimination of monopolies and other
privileges. Failure to do so has increased the costs of the agreements to
the national economy and the public treasury. To carry out the state's
withdrawal at least cost, the Government will strengthen coordination and
control of the privatization operations.
41.       In November 1987, the Government promulgated a liquidation law
that includes a provision for a-liquidation fund. It will do whatever is
necessary to. set up the fund and ensure its effective operation. It will
also ensure that future agreements comply with the objectives of the reform
program and provisions of the Investment Code. In particular, the
Government will abstain from granting monopoly rights and excessive
advantages to enterprises that have been or will be privatized. It will



ANNEX V
Page 10 of 44
59
also appraise the economic and financial justification for privatizations
before signing any draft agreements.
Legal Framework and Institutional nvilronment
42.       As stated in section 1I, the Government has made significant
progress in implementing a regulatory and institutional environment that
fosters economic liberalization. During the second phase of the reform
program, the Government will pursue and consolidate this policy while
establishing a legal and institutional framework that clarifies the rules
for economic activity, so that the economic agents have all the facts when
making decisions.
43.       To that end, the Government will promulgate the new Guinean
General Accounting Law, which is to take effect in fiscal year 1988, as well
as other new laws, particularly in the areas of economic legislation,
pricing and land and the public domain.. The Government will strengthen the
provision of legal advice to the Financial and Economic Coordination
Committee, Ministry of Justice and various economic and financial management
departments in order to strengthen their ability to analyze laws,
regulations and conventions in order to adapt them to the liberal economic
system.
44.       Along the same lines, the Government will prepare a Civil Code, a
Code of Civil Procedures and a Code of Commercial Obligations. Fitally, to
clarify the rights and obligations of the private sector in its relations
with the financial administration, it will enact a Tax, Customs and Public
Procurement Codes, which will spell out the legal provisions applicable to
privatization and liquidation and to the by-laws of public enterprises.
Imroved Manamsement of the National Economy
45.       The success of the reform program will depend in large measure on
the progress made in strengthening the management of the national economy.
To that end, it will be necessary to institute an efficient financial
administration as soon as possible, as well as a streamlined and efficient
development administration. To achieve these objectives, the Government
wills ti) complete the administrative reform; (ii) rationalize public
finance procedures; (iii) improve management of the external public debt;
(iv) consolidate the progress in preparing public investments; (v)
rationalize the management of public enterprises; and (vi) pursue a prudent
monetary and credit policy.
Administrative Reform-
46.       The administrative reform program during the first phase of the
reform program involved drawing up and applying new rules governing the
organization, operation and procedures of Government agencies in order to
create a streamlined and efficient development administration and to
revitalize the economy. This operation proved the most complicated and
sensitive of the activities of the first phase. It requires substantial



ANNE V
Page I1 of 44
60
mobilization of resources and energy, as well as close attention to the
links between these reforms and progress in other sectors.
47.       Despite the complexity of the administrative reform, the
Government made appreciable progress. However, the goals of the first
phase proved unattainable. During the second phase, the Government intends
to continue pursuing the administrative reform, especially: the
establishment of the new organizational structures in the central and
decentralized agencies; restructuring of the municipality of Conakry;
creation of a central computerized personnel file; and enhance control over
the number of Government employees and of the results of the special
programs of voluntary departure, early retirement and retirement,
administrative reserve status, and evaluation and selection of civil
servants.
48.       The year 1988 will be decisive in determining the success of the
administrative reform. It is a turning point because of the need to
conclude the restructuring of the agencies and the reductions in the number
of employees and because of the intended start-up of the Priority Action
Program for strengthening development administration. The Government will
finalize the following initiatives:
(i) testing, evaluation and selection of Government employees,
confirmation of employees who have been retained in the new
administration, with significant increases in their salaries.
(ii) separation from the Government of public enterprise employees and
reduction in the numbers of auxiliary employees (categories 3, F
and G); separation from the civil service of employees who did not
opt for voluntary departure as of December 31. 1988 and who are
already on administrative reserve status because of the closure of
public enterprises; placement of employees laid off as a result
of the testing and evaluations, closures or restructuring of
public enterprises into a new regime for employees leaving the
civil service, which regime is to be defined in a legal text to be
promulgated by the Government by August 1988.
(iii) design of the organizational structures for the central and
provincial departments, as well as the decentralized authorities,
and implementation of the procedures for contractual and
decentralized planning.
49.       As to the Priority Action Program, the Government will emphasize
implementation of the organizational structures of the following
ministries: Economy and Finance; Planning and International Cooperation;
and Administrative Reform and the Civil Service. For these Ministries,
whose role is central to the execution of the reform program, the allocation
and confirmation of personnel in the positions provided for in the
organizational structures will be effectuated no later than December 31,
1988.



ANNEX V
Page 12 of 44
61
50.       During the second phase of the reform program, administrative
reform measures will includes
(i) restructuring of the public administrotions (central, territorial
and decentralized administration).
Iii) improvement of persennel management in the civil service through
strengthening the administrative and financial management of
employees, auditing their files and creating a central
computerized personnel file, to be updated regularly to facilitate
monitoring and control of the employee list and wage bill.
(iii) establishing streamlined procedures and operations for public
administration.
(iv) implementation of measures to facilitate the integration of former
civil servants into the private sector and the hiring of young
graduates; while the early retirement program will used, access to
the voluntary departure program will be limited to employees who
have not yet been evaluated.
(v) implementation of a program to train and retrain retained
Government employees.
Public Finances
5:.       Streamlining the Budgetary Procedures and Integratint the ARnroach
to Public Finances. Law 220 of September 11, 1985, states that no
Government revenue can be collected and no expenditures committed if they
are not included in the budget. Until the end of 1987, however, Guinea did
not have a budget that carried the force of law, nor a reliable system for
controlling Government spending, managing the external public debt and
monitoring disbursements on external financing.
52.       In response to this problem, the Government drew up and
promulgated a budget law for 1988.  According to its provisions, budgetary
credits are opened by titles, chapters and articles and are distributed by
user departments. Moreover, the expenditures on each line of the budget can
be committed only in accordance with the specific purpose stated in the
heading for the line, and budgetary credits are strictly binding in nature.
The Government will also prepare a law detailing the financial regime, which
will have the force of organic law; it will also implement decrees that
specify the procedures for administration, authorization, commitment and
execution of Government expenditures, and it will draw up rules governing
public accounting. Once the implementation decrees are drawn up, the
Government will reorganize the agencies under the Director General of the
Budget and the Director General of the Treasury so as to establish a
consolidated approach to financial operations.
53.       Beginning in 1988, following the implementation of the new
procedures, no expenditure will be made that is not authorized in the
budget. In particular, no special payments will be allowed except under



ANNEX V
Page 13 of 44
62
exceptional circumstances, and they will be subject to a simultaneous
commitment of expenditures against budget appropriations. To ensure that
Government expenditures are transparent, the decree establishing the
organizational structure of the Ministry of Economy and Finance created a
Directorate of Public Procurement within the Directorate General of the
Budget, and a draft Public Procurement Code has been written. This code,
which will be approved before the end of September 1988, will be applied
strictly.
54.       The Government's objectives in the area of public finance
management are to diversify and augment revenues and to ensure financing of
essential recurrent expenditures. Despite the increase in the size of the
PIP, the ratio of the deficit in the Government's financial operations to
GDP will fall gradually from 7.6 percent in 1988 to 4.9 percent in 1993.
This improvement will result from greater mobilization of fiscal receipts.
In more precise quantitative terms, the share of Government non-mining
revenues is to rise from less than 2 percent of GDP (18 percent of total
revenues) in 1986 to more than 7 percent of GDP (58 percent of total
revenues) in 1993; domestic revenues are to cover current Government
expenditures beginning in 1988; and budgetary saving is to grow to about 5
percent by 1993. Achievement of these targets will create a self-financing
capacity for public investments.
55.       Diversification of Government Revenues.  As stated above, more
than 75 percent of state revenues come from the exploitation of bauxite and
aluminum. The Government wants to lessen this structural dependence on
mining, all the more so because bauxite revenues will drop in 1988. One
approach is to rehabilitate the tax base for both corporations and
individuals. As regards the taxation of individuals, the Government will
introduce a progressive income tax that will include an exemption for
households below the poverty line. This measure and improved collection of
taxes and duties will be addressed by reorganizing and strengthening the
Directorate General of Taxes and the Directorate General of Customs. The
reorganization and strengthening will require foreign technical assistance,
as well as the training of managers in tax and customs administration.
56.       The Government is now reforming the Tax Code. It also intends to
create a file of taxpayers and promulgate a new Guinean General Chart of
Accounts. The apprenticeship tax and the research and processing tax will
be repealed, and taxation of exports of non-mining products will be limited
to the 2 percent duty the customs agents now levy when the goods leave the
country. On the other hand, the Government has increased the special tax on
petroleum products and improved its 'efforts to collect it. Beginning in
January 1989, the Government will incorporate the tourism promotion tax in
the budget and harmonize the taxes on tobacco and alcoholic beverages with
the import surcharge on these products. It has already raised the turnover
tax rate to 10 percent; the tax applies equally to and local products. The
Government will levy a tax on real estate revenues, implement a land survey
(cadastre) service, and consolidate several low-yielding real estate taxes
with the dwelling and rental taxes.



ANNEX V
Page 14 of 44
63
57.       in the area of customs reform, the Government will adopt a new
Customs Code by the end of June 1989 and improve the collection of import
duties and taxes. To address the problem of under-invoicing of imports,
the Directorate General of Customs has drawn up a chart of reference values,
which it will update regularly. More generally, the Directorate General
will be implementing the UNCTADIASYCUNDA computerized customs data
processing system, which will be operational in June 1989. The goal is to
increase the rate of customs payments, to improve the statistics on foreign
trade and to permit the calculation of the customs rates envisaged within
the framework of the Economic Community of West African States. Finally,
the Government will strengthen the system that encourages customs agents to
combat fraud, will centralize all the customs offices (inspection,
regiotration and verification) involved with the port of Conakry within the
environs of the port, and- ill upgrade the customs offices along the
principal land routes at the borders.
58.       Control of the Government's Current Expenditures.  Application of
the new budgetary procedures, the administrative reforms, the cutbacks in
the civil service, and the planned increase in salaries will determine the
profile of the Government's current expenditures during the second phase of
the structural adjustment program. With regard to non-personnel current
expenditures, the emphasis will be on financing recurrent expenditures
related to the PIP and on budgetary appropriations and authorizations for
agriculture, maintenance of the economic infrastructure, education and
basic health services. To avoid slippage in investments and ensure that
expenditure priorities are respected, the Government has set up divisions in
all the Ministries to handle administrative and financial matters. The
provision in the 1988 budget law for committing expenditures should
strengthen the capacity of the Directorate General of the Budget to control
expenditures.
59.       Manaftement of Personnel Expenditures.  Expenditures for
Government personnel will grow appreciably in the coming years despite the
projected reduction in civil service employees. The reason is the need to
increase real wages, which are currently quite low. To attain a budgetary
saving over time, the Government will compensate fr the salary increases by
reducing the number of employees and increasing domestic revenues.
60.      -To control growth in the number of employees and the wage bill,
and to strengthen management in this area, which suffers from a diffusion of
responsibility that causes waste and irregularities, in 1988 the Government
will create a central payroll agency within the Directorate General of the
Budget. As soon as it is instituted, this agency be responsible for
payroll orders (including salaries and allowances) for all Government
officials and employees whose salaries come from the budget, regardless of
their department or job site (Conakry or the interior).   The Ministry of
Administrative Reform- and the Civil Service will develop a central automated
personnel file that will cover the new organizational structures, the
results of the survey of employees, the results of tests and evaluations of
civil servants, personnel on administrative reserve status, voluntary
departure and retirement and early retirement programs.



ANNEX V
Page 15 of 44
64
Manaaement of the External Public Debt
61.       The external public debt will continue to be a heavy burden on the
Treasury and the balance of payments during the second phase of the reform
program. In 1988, the ratio of foreign debt service to exports of non-
factor goods and services reached 39.4 percent, its highest level, owing to
the considerable accumulation of payment arrears, particularly on debts to
banks. The ratio should fall to 31.3 percent in 1989 and 1990 before
rising to 36.4 percent on average over the period 1990-93, as a result of
the rescheduling of the 1986 payments by the Paris Club. Relative to
Government revenues, the debt service ratio should drop from 62.6 percent in
1988 to 51.4 percent in 1993. The lack of coordination among the entities
responsible for contracting and repaying the debt--the spending Ministries,
the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, and the Central Bank--has exacerbated the situation.
62.       In April 1988, the Government instituted a computerized debt file,
vhich will be updated regularly.  This measure, and the following actions,
should improve the coordination of external public debt managements
(i) in the area of debt management, by the end of September of each
year, the Government is to have prepared a new borrowing policy
covering the terms for borrowing (duration, grace period and
interest rate), external financing needs for the PIP and non-
project financing; and a policy for renegotiating the external
public debt, taking into account the internal and external
budgetary constraints that arise from the macroeconomic and
financial forecasts for the coming year. The Government will not
enter into or guarantee any non-concessional loan agreements (as
defined by the Development Assistance Committee of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) over the
course of the program period that are not covered by the policies.
The Government also intends to improve the mobilization of
grants. It will pursue a prudent external borrowing policy that
is compatible with the economy's indebtedness capacity. Current
debt management will come under these policies. The Ministry of
Plan and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, and the Central Bank will share the external debt data
base that is to be installed.
(ii) with respect to commitments and disbursements, the Ministry of
Plan and International Cooperation is responsible for negotiating
loan agreements and conventions in accordance with established
policy; the Ministry of Economy and Finance or its delegate is to
notify the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation and the
Central Bank of any newly signed loan agreements; in the cace of
borrowing linked to a project, the technical spending Ministry,
the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Plan and
International Cooperation will have to approve any disbursements;
and the Central Bank will notify the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
immediately of any disbursements it effects.



ANNEX V
Page 16 of 44
65
(iii)  as regards repayments, the Ministry of Economy and Finance will
order the expenditure and notify the Ministry of Plan and
International Cooperation of repayments; and the Central Bank
will execute the payment ordered by the Treasury, which will send
monthly statements on these payments to the Central Bank no later
than the 20th of the month before the payment. The statements
will conform to the schedule set forth in the loan agreements and
to the debt policy established by the Government.
Three-Year PIP
63.       The Government's development strategy aims to promote private
investment in the productive sector. The success of this effort will be
closely tied to the Government's intended improvements in the basic infra-
structure, which greatly affects the profitability of productive projects
and the general efficiency of the economy. The Government's PIP emphasizes
reconstruction of the economic and social infrastructure and the
improvement of services to support rehabilitation of the private productive
sectors, particularly in agriculture. In the 1987-89 PIP, infrastructure
(public works, transportation, telecommunications, energy and water)
accounted for 45 percent of public investments, rural development for 25
percent, and education and health together for 12 percent. With the
exception of certain projects not included in the initial program, most of
the Government's investment projects benefited from external assistance
provided in the form of grants or credits under very favorable terms.
64.       The 1988-90 PIP, which is about to be adopted, comes under the
framework of the Government's development strategy and macroeconomic
projections for the 1988-93 period, which were drawn up by the Ministry of
Plan and International Cooperation. In light of the need for basic
infrastructure (particularly roads), the PIP was considerably larger than
that in 1986 and 1987. The investments in basic infrastructure should, in
turn, accelerate private capital investments and contribute to the
revitalization of the economy.
65.       The 1988-90 PIP gives priority, to infrastructure (47.5 percent),
with a considerable effort being made in the short term to increase water
supplies for urban areas and villages and, in the medium term, for roads,
agriculture (20.9 percent) and education, whose share in public investments
will double from 1988 to 1990. The growth of investments in the social
sectors is designed to provide a safety net for the neediest groups. The
investment projects in these sectors conform to the medium-term sectoral
strategies for basic education, primary health care services, nutrition,
housing and basic infrastructure.
66.       The programming of public investments in 1987 was not carried out
as effectively as was desired. The lack of a unified budget that included
the operating budget, the investment budget and the expenditures for debt
servicing was a major obstacle to efficient management of public
expenditures in general and the execution of the investment program in



ANNE V
Page 17 of 44
66
particular. The projects included in the PIP were not all prepared
carefully, and their recurrent costs were not evaluated.
67.       The Government has significantly improved the procedures for
preparing the PIP by strengthening project preparation and applying more
rigorous evaluation and planning criteria, particularly in terms of
identifying the recurrent costs created by a project. These costs must now
be systematically evaluated and taken into account in preparing the
Government's current budget. More generally, the Government will not
include in the PIP any large project (more than US$1 million) that has not
been economically justified.
68.       In the area of the budgetary procedures, the 1988 investment
budget prepared by the Government will include locally financed
expenditures in addition to externally financed expenditures. Further, the
Government will redefine the procedures for budgetary negotiations between
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Plan and International
Cooperation and the technical ministries in order to establish a permanent
system for financial monitoring and implementation of investments. As part
of this system, commitments and disbursements related to investments will
have to be authorized by the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
in advance; the Plan and Finance Ministries will hold a weekly review to
rule on proposed investment expenditures that are submitted to the Budget
Directorate without prior authorization from the Plan Ministry.
Management of the Remainina Government Enterprises
69.       In the case of the enterprises it is retaining, the Government
will develop management information systems similar to those of private
firms and will strengthen the roles of the Directorates General and the
boards of directors. The Government will negotiate performance contracts
with the enterprises that will set forth goals and reciprocal obligations
and responsibilities. The performance contracts will be based on the
principle of management autonomy, including in the area of staff
recruitment. The first performance contracts will be negotiated with the
electric power company, ENELGUI, and the national water company, SONEG,
beginning in October 1988.
70.       The Government has set up an advisorY body with responsibility for
drafting the basic provisions that establish tne relationship between
pablic enterprises and their administrative Ministries, the goal being to
put in place the basic reform principles outlined in June 1988. The
ordinance establishing the loi cadre for public enterprises is to be issued
by March 1989. During 1990, the by-laws of the remaining public enterprises
will be modified to conform to the loi cadre.
71. Finaliy, before it creates any enterprise in which it will have at
least a 25Z holding, the Government will appraise its economic
justification and financial viability.



ANNEX V
Page .18 of 44
67
Monetary and Credit Policy
72.       To consolidate the adjustment efforts undertaken during the first
phase of the reform program, the Government will pursue a prudent policy in
the area of exchange rate adjustment and reform of the banking system,
specifically with respect to money supply and credit. In particular, real
interest rates are to be positive. In January 1988, the Central Bank raised
the minimum rate payable on term deposits to 17 percent and instituted
passbook accounts, cash vouchers and deposit accounts. Interest rate
adjustments will continue in 1989. The flexible interest rate policy will
not only improve the mobilization and allocation of resources, but it will
also, once expectations about depreciation are taken into account, increase
the preference for deposits in Guinean francs.
73.       Extension of the banking network in Conakry and the interior of
the country and maintenance of positive real interest rates should increase
the economy's monetization. Nevertheless, inasmuch as inflation is a major
concern of economic policy, the Government will monitor the evolution of
domestic credit, according to its joint program with the TM. In
particular, the monetary financing of the Treasury will be subject to
strict limitations to ensure that loans are available for private sector
development and that small- and medium-scale enterprises have access to
credit. The Government will also undertake a study on the causes of
inflation disaggregating one-time adjustments from underlying trends.
74.       The access of small- and medium-scale enterprises to credit will
be facilitated by granting foreign lines of credit under highly
preferential conditions. To support the Government's Priority Action
frogram in the social sector, these credit lines will be used to set up a
system of micro-loans at the level of urban and rural collectives.  The
Government is aware that the lack of real guarantees, particularly
collateral in the form of real property, is a major obstacle to the
expansion of credit, especially with respect to the medium- and long-term
loans needed for economic growth. The Government has also undertaken to
prepare a new Land Code and to put in place a real estate register as the
basis for a system of providing the guarantees needed to improve the access
of both business and individuals to bank credit. The Government will also
study monetary policy in order to identify new incentives that would
encourage banks to grant medium- and long-term loans.
Mobilization of Growth Potential and Rehabilitation of the Economic
Infrastructure and Human Resources
75.       The Guinean economy relies heavily on the exploittion of bauxite
deposits and their transformation into aluminum. To reduce the country's
dependence on these products, the Government will encourage production and
exports by other sectors to the greatest extent possible. It also intends
to diversify the mining industry and to promote agricultural production.
The primary mechanism will be investments in the rehabilitation of basic
economic infrastructure and the development of human resources.



ANNEX V
Page 19 of 44
68
76.       Guinea's underground resources are extensive and varied.  Three
products should undergo significant development. Diamonds, which currently
are being exploited by ARDOR and some cottage industries, and gold, whose
industrial exploitation should get under way in the near future and which is
already being tapped by cottage industries, both have potential. The
Government will promote these production flows through official channels so
as to achieve better control over production and to stimulate greater and
more diverse exports. Finallj, if the HIFERGUI iron ore mining project in
the forest zone proves economically and financially viable, the Government
intends to start it up, with the equity participation of the Liberian
Government and an international consortium already operating in that
country.
77.       The need to obtain better returns from the mining sector and the
desire *.o develop small- and medium-scale enterprises in the proximity of
the mines, which constitute large markets, have led the Government to also
encourage on-lending to private operators of services not directly tied to
industrial activity.
Atriculture
78.       The rural sector provides a livelihood for 80 percent of the
country's population. It has formidable growth potential, and the
Government sees its exploitation as the highest priority. With the support
of the smallholders, Guinea should be able to achieve food self-sufficiency.
The Government intends to promote cereal production, especially rice
cultivation, through incentives that support small-scale producers, notably
appropriate pricing policies and elimination of the negative impact of the
imports of food aid rice. Toward that end, and to guarantee fair
protection of local rice in the face of imports, the Government will
gradually institute more realistic pricing, including for food aid rice.
Ensuring that the sale of imported rice at low prices does not hinder the
marketing of local rice is another means of consolidating the supply
response begun in 1986.
79.       Agriculturai and fishing products offer good opportunities for
diversification and increased production and exports. The Government:will
promote these industries, while at the same time revitalizing traditional
crops that have been partially abandoned, such as coffee, oil palm and
fruits and vegetables. It will also foster the development of new crops
such as rubber. With respect to coffee production, which has increased
substantially since the decontrol of prices, the Government will support the
efforts of private producers by arguing at the International Coffee
Organization for a significant increase in Guinea's quota. Domestic
fishing by both small producers and industrial operations will be
encouraged; at the same time, the Government will try to reduce the abusive
fishing practices of foreign fleets by improved policing of territorial
waters.



ANNEX V
Page 20 of 44
69
80.       In general, Guinean agriculture suffers from inefficiency and
other problems. The Government will launch a major program of agricultural
extension and research to help farmers, while providing incentives to the
private sector to furnish inputs. The latter objective has been furthered
by the reduction of entry duties to 5 percent. Other key measures include:
rehabilitation of rural roads, whose poor condition hinders efficient
distribution of inputs and the sale of agricultural products; fostering
associations of farmers under the cooperatives; and strengthening financial
intermediation in rural areas, notably through branch banking. Finally, the
Government will encourage initiatives to improve farmers' living conditions,
particularly in the areas of basic education, health care and water supply.
One approach will be to support micro-projects in which local and foreign
non-governmental organizations participate.
Restoration of the Economic infrastructure
81.       Guinea's poor economic infrastructure is a major obstacle to
recovery and growth. The Government is committed to widespread
rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion programs, all of which will
require large public capital outlays and will mean heavy recurrent costs.
Four areas are priorities: rehabilitation of the road network, starting
with the crucial east-west axis; renovation and extension of the telecom-
munications network; restoration of the electrical power plants and dis-
tribution grids and initiation of a hydroelectric dam project; and
improvement of the water supply. These activities should result in the
minimum infrastructure needed for the growth of economic activities. They
will be reinforced by the enactment of complementary laws, such as the
Electricity Code.
Housing, Urban Plannint. Water SuiPly and Sanitation
82.       The housing problem is mostly an urban one, particularly in
Conakry. The most underprivileged groups suffer from overcrowded living
space, overpopulation, very badly deteriorated dwellings, pollution (from
sewage and other household wastes), difficult access to properties and
insecure property rights. The Government's strategy for housing is to
improve the dwellings, including actions to compensate for dislocation
caused by urban works. Examples of other measures being considered ares
prevention of the deterioration of buildings ay supporting community
projects or the informal construction sector, which is generally better
adapted to respond to the needs and financial capacities of the less well-
to-do.
83.       The Government is writing a new housing policy that will favor
options such as the development of "sites with services'. Mixed housing
production might be developed, for example, in which the Governmert develops
the sites and the private s_ctor constructs the housing units). Land and
real estate management is an important issue, not only in terms of the
security of property and housing rights, but also of stronger guarantees
with respect to access to bank credit.



ANNEX V
Page 21 of 44
70
Promotion of Human Resources
84.       Guinea's basic social indicators are among the most troubling in
sub-Saharan Africa, and the situation could deteriorate further if the
decline in essential health and education services is not reversed. The
Government's objective is to identify the priority needs in order to ensure
that the country benefit from its human potential in the medium and long
term, despite current economic and financial constraints.
85.       Health and Nutrition.  The health sector suffers from very severe
financial constraints: its share of Government expenditures fell from 5.2
percent in 1977 to 3.4 percent in 1984. As a result, the mortality rate is
very high. In 1985, infant mortality was 160 per thousand, as opposed to
the average of 105 per thousand in sub-Saharan Africa. Life expectancy was
estimated at 41 years, compared to an average of 50 years in neighboring
countries.
86.       The public health system specifically suffers from heavy
centralization, an inequitable distribution of staff over the country and
inadequate budgetary resources. These problems translate into weak
management capacity, serious shortages of medicines and deterioration of
infrastructure and health care equipment. Rospitals and primary health
care centers do not operate effectively, and preventive medicine, services
for mothers and children and family planning leave much to be desired.
87.       The Government is aware of the country's health problems and is
implementing a plan of action for the health sector that emphasizes
preventive primary health care: protection of mothers and children,
vaccinati.on programs and hygiene. Within the framework of this action plan,
which is being supported by the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the IDA
and numerous other donors, the Government is working to restructure the
public health delivery system, based on the following priorities:
(i) increase and redirect budgetary allocations to the sector so as to
foster primary health care services and the protection of mothers
and children;
(ii) integrate traditional medicine into the health system through
training, monitoring of activities and research into local
pharmacopoeia;
(iii) strengthen health education, coverage of vaccinations and
nutrition;                I
(iv) implement institutional reforms to enhance the statistical
information system and improve the capacity for planning,
programming and management in the sector;
(v) -improve the productivity of health care personnel and the main-
tenance of the infrastructures and equipment; and



ANNEX V
Page 22 of 44
71
(vi) have beneficiaries and decentralized authorities begin to pay for
some of the costs of the h..Lth services.
88.       Education and Emilovment.  The drop in the education sector's
rhare of Government current expenditures (from 14 percent in 1984 to 10.7
percent in 1987) has worsened the distortions in the system. About 73
percent of school-age children do not have access to education. The
internal efficiency of the system is very poor, as shown by the high number
of repeaters and dropouts. Moreover, the system is not adapted to the
economy's job offerings. Data show that the allocation of funds in the
sector favors the highor levels at the expense of primary and technical
education and occupational training. Between 1984-85 and 1986-87, school
enrollment fell. This downward trend is being accompanied, by a rise in
unemployment among graduates of the schools and universities, a phenomenon
that tends to reduce the attractiveness of education and creates social
tensions.
89.       To reverse the decline in school enrollment rates, increase adult
literacy and improve educational efficiency, the Government intends to
prepare a development strategy and priority action plan for the sector.
This strategy and action plan will aim to restructure the education system
based on the following objectives:
(i) expansion of basic education, with primary and technical education
the priorities in the allocation of funds;
(ii) adaptation of training to the needs of the economy, with a
primary mecanlism being a sectoral study of the labor market and
occupational training, with a view to adjusting the latter to
meet the economy's labor requirements;
(iii) promotion of quality at all levels of the education system by
improving teaching methods and teacher training, as well as by
implementing mechanisms and rigorous criteria for selection and
guidance;
(iv) achievement of equity and social justice by increasing the
enrollment of less-favored groups and by taking into account the
objective of social justice in deploying additional resources.
90.       Because of the extremely low levels of the social indicators and
minimal resources allocated to education and health, it would be
unacceptable to allow these sectors to deteriorate further. The Government
expects to accord high priority to these sectors when preparing the budget
and PIP and to increase their allocations.. It has also decided that the
tests and evaluations being carried out in the education and health sectors
under the administrative reform should not necessarily result in a
reduction in the number of employees.



ANNX V
Page 23 of 44
72
The Social Dimensions of Adiustment
91.       The Economic and Financial Reform Program, while allowing for an
acceleration in the real growth of GDP, will lead, in the medium and long
term, in an increase in employment, income and per capita consumption, and
finally to an improvement in the welfare of the people. The social
benefits of the program are already visible in rural areas and in the
increased activity of private enterprises, particularly those in the
informal sector. The Gcovernment is counting on the start-up of operations
by privatized public enterprises to sustain this improvement in welfare
over the long term.
92.       While awaiting the full benefits of growth and during the current
transition period, vulnerable groups may be affected by the adjuatment.
Two direct social costs are unemployment and a drop in income as a result of
the cutbacks in the number of civil servants. The administrative reform
begun in 1966 will, as noted, lead to a restructuring and reduction in the
number of public employees, but also to an equitable wage policy that will
be an incentive for workers, and to a reclassification of employees affected
by the reform. Initially, the emphasis was on the quantitative objectives,
although the restructuring, equity and improvement of working conditions
(notably, remuneration and work conditions were also important
considerations.
93.       The success of this sensitive operation and attainment of the
objectives require greater attention to the environment of employees and
the dissemination of information about alternatives. Otherwise, the civil
service could become rigid, a situation that would inhibit change and
jeopardize the broader economic reforms.
94.       The Government's PIP emphasizes labor-intensive projects
accompanied by training programs. It also contains a preferential credit
program for people who submit economically and financially viable investment
proposals and departure grants for employees leaving the civil service.
The Government will increase the assistance to former Government employees
who want to open small- and medium-scale businesses. Special incentives
could be created to direct them toward the agricultural sector (particularly
in the case of agricultural engineers).
95.       The need to assist civil servants who are laid off raises the more
general problem of employment for other groups (for example, young
unemployed graduates). Attention needs to be given to the development of an
integrated training and employment policy.
96.       The working group studying the social dimensions of adjustment
has identified certain vulnerable or high-risk groups in need of protection
or specific support during this transitional adjustment period. The
Government is paying particular attention to these groups in designing the
Priority Action Program, which includes projects aimed directly at upgrading
their living conditions and ensuring their full participation in the
economic recovery. An efficient means of reaching the underprivileged



ANNEX V
Page 24 of 44
73
people in both urban and rural areas is the decentralization of
administration, which will facilitate the delivery of health services,
education and training, water supply, infrastructure for small collectives
and the movement of agricultural output. Other uational and international
non-governmental organizations could provide other human, material and
financial resources to assist these groups.
97.       A particular concern is the city of Conakry.  The lay-offs of
civil servants and public enterprise employees, the numbers of unemployed
graduates, a potential loss in purchasing power as a result of likely price
increases (rent, water, electricity, transportation, food products and
health services), a reduction in the stock of housing that will result from
certain infrastructure projects, and pressure on the food budget of low-
income groups and those without direct access to agricultural output could
seriously affect the capital, and careful attention needs to be paid to this
possibility.
98.       At the institutional level, the Government intends to reinforce
the administration's ability to draw up and implement the components of the
social policy. The Government. envisions three series of actions, with the
assistance of the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the United
Nations Development Programmes
(i)  implementation of a permanent survey of households to monitor
changes in living conditions (jobs, incomes, consumption,
nutrition and access to social services) during the reform
period;
(ii)  development of the administration's ability to perform the socio-
economic studies necessary to design the social policy; and
(iii)  strengthening of the administration's ability to identify,
evaluate and monitor programs and projects in order to foster the
participation of the neediest in the country's growth.
IV - EXTERNAL PINCG NEDS
99.       The economic policies the Government will pursue during the second
phase of its Economic and Financial Reform Program are an appropriate basis
for solving Guinea's structural economic problems and a necessary
precondition for durable growth in real per capita income over the long
term. They will not, however, be sufficient in themselves to permit
realization of the objective of growth while at the same time remedying the
difficult public finance situation and the balance of payments. The country
will need substantial external financial assistance to complete its national
recovery program and achieve economic growth and a return to financial
equilibrium.
100.      The deficit in the current balance of payments should fall from
5.1 percent to 3.5 percent of GDP from 1988 to 1993. In absolute values, it
should reach US$645 million over the period i988-93. The factor that most
contributes to the difficult external position is the repayment of '2^
;



ANNEX V
Page 25 of 44
74
external public debt, which will increase to $845 million over the five
years. In light of the net output of capital from the mining sector, IMF
fund repurchases, the reduction of external arrears and the targets for
objectives of reserve accumulation, Guinea's external financing needs will
increase to about $1.7 billion over the period 1988-93.
101.      Given recent flows and the financial structure of investment
projects, the disbursements expected for foreign borrowing under the PIP
are estimated at $982 million. This amount consists of loans made under
preferential conditions for public development aid. Under the heading of
commitments already arranged for in the area of non-project external
assistance, the Government is counting on the effective mobilization of
almost all of the second tranche of the first Structural Adjustment Credit
from the IDA and its cofinanciers ($77.7 million). Given all the above
factors, residual financing on the order of $487 million is needed over this
period (of which $54 million will be required in 1988 and $87 million in
1989), after financing the projects and mobilizing the commitments currently
under the heading of non-project assistance.
V - MONITORING TH! RECOVERY PROGIAM,
COORDINATION OF ECONOMIC POLICY AND TNCBNICAL ASSISTANCE
102.      In the initial phase of its recovery program, the Government es-
tablished an Economic and Financial Coordination Committee.  It provides a
gorum for regular dialogue at the ministerial level, directs the reforms
being undertaken and proposes measures to the Council of Ministers. Over
the course of the last two years, although the Coordination Committee has
had to confront most of the issues constraining the economic and Linancial
reforms, it has effectively directed their implementation. It has been
hampered by the lack of a unit for technical monitoring, and its agenda has
lengthened appreciably, a trend that could be detrimental to prompt
consideration of priority packages.
103.      The Government has working to solve this problem.  To prepare the
second phase of the reform program, the Government set up a technical
interagency advisory commission comprised of representatives of the Ministry
of Plan and International Cooperation, Ministry of Economy and Finance,
Ministry of Administrative Reform and the Civil Service, and the Central
Bank. By June 1988, the technical commission will prepare a consistent
diagram of the Guinean economy; it will ihclude an interdependent framework
for national accounting, central government financial operations, balance of
payments and the position of financial institutions and external public
debt. As part of this effort, the commission will provide support to the
offices of the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation (in
particular, DGSI, DGP and DGIP), the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(budget, treasury, customs and taxes) and the Central Bank, which are
responsible for preparing the economic summary tables. In the next few
months, the commission will also assist the Coordination Committee in
drawing up and implementing a permanent monitoring mechanism and a
mechanism to control the drafting and execution of the measures and actions
envisioned under the Economic and Financial Recovery Program.



ANNEX V
Page 26 of 44
75
104.      Finally, to assist the Economic and Financial Coordination
Committee, the Government will appoint a coordinator, who will lead the
technical advisory commission so as to assure monitoring of the adjustment
program at the level of the ministries and agencies responsible for it,
especialiy with respect to the deadlines for reforms and modification of the
measures and actions they are responsible for implementing.
105.      To aid in implementing the second phase of the reform program,
the Government bas requested the assistance of the World Bank and other
donors in the area of managing the national econtmy. This aid will be
almed at:
(i) strengthening the training of managers and achieving the
objectives of long-term institutional development;
(ii) reinforcing the administration's capabilities in the areas of
macroeconomic analysis, planning procedures, programming and
preparation of public lnvestmentst
(iii)  consolidating and strengthening the statistical servicest
(iv)  strengthening the services of the. Ministry of Economy and Finance
(customs, taxes, budget, foreign debt and Treasury) and of the
Ministry of Administrative Reform and the Civil Service;
(v) developing a capability within the administration to analyze and
draw up legal tests and agreements, in particular, within the
Economic and Financial Coordination Committee, the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Justice;
(vi) evaluating the social effects of adjustment; and
(vii)  supporting a unit of economists to assist the Ministry of Plan
and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the Civil
Service, the Central Bank and the Economic and Financial
Coordination Committee in monitoring the economy and controlling
the execution the Economic and Financial Reform Program.
VI - CONCLUSION
106.      The Government is reasonably confident that its reform program
and the improvements it has achieved in monitoring and controlling the
implementation of intended reforms will enable it to execute the reform
program at an appropriate pace, tie end result being economic growth and
improved welfare. Based on the economic forecasts prepared for the secor.d
phase of the reform program, inflation could gradually decrease through
1993, as GDP and per capita consumption grow in real terms. These
achievements will be possible as a result of greater mobilization of the
country's growth potential through the consolidation of the economic
liberalization, that is, through the withdrawal of the Government from the
productive sectors and the expansion of the incentives for private sector



ANNEX V
Page 27 of 44
76
production. The liberalization of trade and prices, rigorous enforcement of
the simplified customs tariff and the new Investment Code, and pursuit of a
flexible exchange and interest rate policy are essential elements in this
strategy.
107.      Guinea's economic achievements to date imply that the Government
has significantly improved national economic management. Bearing this
conclusion out, the 1988-93 economic projections show a reduction in the
ratio of both the overall deficit of the Government's financial operations
and the external current account deficit to GDP. The financial
stabilization also reflects greater mobilization of fiscal receipts, better
control of the number of civil servants and the wage bill, and improved
budgetary coverage of essential recurrent expenditures. It also reflects
stronger programming and greater profitability of public investments, as
well as prudent monetary policy.



MiMiu 111IF W  ECaMIC PIUCY  EU11
kEASRES EWNISIONED ND              RESOIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCRAL PROBLEMS          RESULTS TO DATE AND O IWO ACTIONS             -SCHEDULE OF ACTIOS                  AECS
1. Consolidation of the
liberal economic option
1. Exchanag rate Poicy.        Perslstence of a perallel        Reduction In gap between official     Keep the gap between offici l rate            CRO
monetary policy, and        market,                          exchange rate and the value of the    of exchange and the parallol
financial                                                    Guinen franc (FG) on parallel         exchnnge rate below 1X.
intemediation               High rate of inflation.         market.
Opening of the foreign exchange
market to all current operations.
Increase In rate of coverag of
suctione by private sector (from
ION at beginning of 1996 to 825
beginning of 1988).
Lack of rel guarenteee to       CloaIng and liquidatlon of former      Incres Ing branch benking In towns          9CRO      vJ
support the expanslon of        state banks.                          of the Interior of th. country.
credit.
Creation of now banks                 Pursult of policy of interst rate            BCe
Ineuffictency of the banking    reestablishing confidene In           adjustment In 1969 In order to
systes coverage of the          banking system.                       attain quickly the goal of posltive
country.                                                              r I rates.
Ellminatlon of Invoicing and
The SHE and the lnformel        payments In forelon exchange for      Study of the system of guarantod
sector hav  limlited access     tronsactions on goods and soeric      bank loans and of the financial
to credit.                      In Cuinea,                            market.
Increase In Interost rates.
Liberalization of the Insurance
market.
gq z



ANNEX: MATRIX OF ECONO8IC POUC1 MEAStURES
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND .ONGOIN  ACTIONS           SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS              ACENCIES
2. Tariff policy-              Weakness of customs             Adoptlon of a simple and uniform       Strngthen customs administratlons       MEIE, 00
Harmonization of            administration,                 customs tariff.
effoective rates of                                                                                - Eliminate some custom  pots  to
protection                  Numerous exemptions,            Adoption of *stisfactory                 strsngtnm mnpower along borders
sometiom   unjustif led,        Investment Cods.                         (October 1986)
leaing to low duty recovery
rates and overly complex        Prparation of Customs Cods.           - R"activate seagolng and mobilo
aministration of the                                                     brigdes:  equip the national
custom  servico.                Harmonizatlon of rates of turnovor       mobile brigade and 4 relonal
tax (TCA) (Increase of TCA on           brigades with all-terrain
Inadequate working              imports from 8 to 100).                 vehileso. (end-198)
conditions and Insufficlent
exploltation of declarations                                           - Open specialized custom  offices
in custom.                                                               (foul and mining companie).
(end-IOU)
- Strengthe the legal end
lnvestiptive Central Division of
the Custom    rocsorate. (1999)
- Put In place an Incentives
system within customs service.
(end-INS)
- Update the list of values
applieabl, In custom and
strengthn controls on -
determining values. (1toe)
- Revise and adopt the
Customs Codo. (September 1989)
0l



NUEt MATRIX OF ECOUIC POLICY MEASRE
MEASUES ENVISIONED AN            RESPONSIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTIONS            SCHEDLE OF ACTIONS                AENS
- Require declrer to pay duties         EF, DOD,
and tame  imioe  by custom           OTD
dIrectly to Tr"sury office
which lern rmeclpt.
(October 19S8)
- Compurize customs service;           MWEDOD
instl lation of ASYCDA system.
(mid-199)
- 8u Id Custom  Headquartere and
provide offices of the intrlor
with * viable Infrastrcure.
- Dfine and Implemnt a technical
asslitance program and a tratning
program for custom personnel.
(end-lOSS)
- Strictly enfore the Investment       MEF,  PCI,
Cods, cut beck oxo_lions, en         MiCk
In special agreemnts, limit
lncntives to thos  provide  In
the Investment Coda.
- Study of protection atruct%ro.
oC-



AMsNEX NAiRIX OF ECONOMIC POUCT MEASUES
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSDUE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS         RESULTS TO DATE AND UNDOING ACTIONS           SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS               A    IENCIES
S. Liberalization of trade     High Inflation rate.             Liboralizatton of p-l.es, of          Prpire and adopt prlicng                    MIck
and pt-ces                                                   marketing, *nd of *xternal trae, .    legislation. (June 1989)
Complex distributlon
channels.                       Promulgation of a new comercial        Spaed up the procssing of import
law.                                  application.
Impl met mechaniem to control tho    Strengthen Chamber of Co m  rce and
quality and cost of lmports.          foter formation of trade
orgnizations.
Ellminate the tax on research and
proceesing levied on exported
agricultural products.
Carry out study on export prooetion                 °
mecen lame (export bonues,                           t
marketing assistance, credit
feaclities). (end-1989)
RIce                           Competition between lwported    Decontrol priceig of local rice        Pursue a full-cost pricins polley       MICA, NIF,
rice and locally produe d       and of rile  Imported by merchant.    for food-aid rice.                       mARA
Inere     wholoesle price of         Levy customo duties on rice and
Administrative price of         food-aid rice to a level               adjust tnese duties depending on
food-aid rice did not cover     reflecting world market pricoe         the world market, with goal of
import cots until recently.                                          ralsing efficient local production.
Adjust wages taking Into aecount            iEF
the growth In dometic prices and
goverment revenues
Petroleum                      Weak prie compared to           Price Increas  In January 198.        Pursue a price adjustment polley             kiw
nelghborlng countries, due                                             aimed *t Incres Ing receipts  pnd                   no
to illegal *xports.                                                   enbancing efficlent reource                          so
utilization.                                        ii
Low mobilization of
non-mining recelpt..



ANWEX: MhTIX OF ECONOMIC POLICY WASURS
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND ONROIN  ACTIONS            SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS               AGENCIES
Water. eloctricity             Subidization of enterprlesu                                            Puanuo price adjustment policy.         NEF, SEE,
concernd.                                                                                                     ITT
Public urban transport                                          Price Incroese In April I98.          Adopt  plice adjustment pollcy
aimed at limiting subsidies to no
more than the I8 lvowel.
-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"



RNWt l thIX OF ECINMIC POLICY WEAS
WAIES EWVISIONED AND             RESPONSIBE
BJECTIVES AND  REAS             STRUCtAL POBLEMS            RESULTS To DATE AND ONOIONG LOTIONS           SCHEDULE OF ACTON                 AIMUCS
4. Withdrawal of the State
from Droductive sctor
(1) Liquidation                                                Liqulidation dcree (Natlonal           Appointmet of members of CIL.
Liquidation Comissloo (CNL).
88 IEPCOA,g 1? other                                            Enterprise   shut do   and            Coplee liquidati    otf assets.         WCI (OCL)
comercial enterprlss                                            IlquidatOed.                           (Decomber IM8)
(Bolssogul, Cycles do
Guind., Ematec, Enimob,                                                                               Psyment of local debts. (Decomber
Enipra, Obeta)l,                                                                                      loss)
quicall erie, Sogul Iec,
Socotol, Sonotex, Alimag,                                                                             Consolidted accounting of
Alidi, Enada, Enidon,                                                                                  liquldatton.
Op _, Mercerlo Sonipe,
DIverem). 10 lndustrial                                         Partial Ilquidatlon of assets.
ontrpriles (IGAT, Ceramic
factory of M.toto, SOFAS,                                       Partial payment of debts
Brickworko of Kobays,
Somovs, Sukobs, Oil MIl
of Koase, UWC Tanneri,
Pa_nnaux do Seredou, ari
do Faransh( *nd S
transport enterprise-
(COT, COTAX, TUC).
C Bonks (C.N.,                                                  Closure. Auditing of accounts of
Headquarters BGCE, W SE,                                        primery banks.
BNAW, BID*, ES).
Global result of the liquidation.     Issuance of Treasury development       SCRO, NEF
bonds againot dposlts In former
Partial repayment of depositors.      state banks. (October 1988)



AN:   kMDARX OF ECONIMIC POIuC    _iEAaU
MEASURES ENVISIONED AI           IES1PNSIBE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLES          RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTIONS           SCHULE OF ACTIONS                 AGENCIES
(il) Privatization
2 commrcial enterpris.                                          Privatization conventlon.             Monitoring and control of
(Socomer and Batiport), 16                                      approved.                             convntion enforcement.
Industrial firm: Bonagul,                                                                             (Satisfactory progress)
Sobragul, Sonacag, Kankan                                       IS Industrial enterprises have
brlckworks, UJF, Kankan,                                        restarted operation..                 Signing of lplmnting decreo  otf            ICA
Soprag (Sipar Lab.),                                                                                  conventions not ye  published.
SIPAC, UOA, hprimrie de                                                                                (September 1986)
la RapubIlque, US"A
SOPEC, Mbcntx te                                                                                      To the extent poslble, protection
factory, Maou canning                                                                                 oranted to lndustrial enterprise
plant, Soguifab, Quinine                                                                              wthin the frameork of
de Seredou, ENTA Tabacs et                                                                            ioplementation decree  will be on a
Alumettes, SIPECO,                                                                                    temporary and degreslev  basis. 
SOPROCIMENT).                                                                                                                                              o
1 comerclai entorprlie                                          Convontione being negotiated.         Finalization of negotiation
(frigo du Port).                                                                                      (December 1986) conforming to the
6 industrlsl enterpriesl                                                                              Investment Code or decision to
(U.S.C.Z., SOCUJIEp,                                                                                  liquidate If no privatization
Eniphargul,                                                                                            interot xpred.                         MIC, IEF
Coeplexe/Bois;one Foulays,
Sonfonlys Furniture
Factory, Soguiplast,
Oilmill of Dabola).
SANOYAH                                                         Flrat conventton rejected.            Create comission to reeo"mmn  new       CCEF, UPCI
Decision to rongotiate.               bses for noeotiation. (June 198)        MICA
Prpare (including supplemntary
studies) and negotiat ne w
convontion. (Docember 1988)
0



ADMEX: VMAIX OF ECONMC NPUCY   AUE
MEAStJRU ENVISIONED UN           RESPONSIULE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND ONOING ACTIONS             SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS               ACENCIES
ONAN (including                                                 Negotations comple      with AGC,    Convention approvol.                    CCEFU,  ICA,
'Hydroventesm), Sogu I ubo,                                    soELL, TOTAL.                          (Jun  1988)                             SCC
SOMOAC
Agreement by CCEF.
ENTRAT                                                         Elliination of monopoly In transit    Study of redienolontng plan for
oan  handi ng,                        eompany and r _co adatlono on Its
future. (Dcember 1966)
SRO                                                                                                   Study of a testructuring plan.
(Decembr 198B)
SNAR                                                           Identiftication of partnero for        Finallstion of negotiatlons.                DCM
prlvatntltlon of ectivition undr      (July 1968)
fre  compotition conditions.                                                               co
- Advanced negotiations.                                                                   5.
- Elimination o monopoly.
* coeorcial entorprlse                                         Accounting audit and physical          Prlvntlatlon or liquidation.           MICA  nd
(Prominox, Batiport,                                           Inventory.  Elioinatlon of bauxite    (December 190)                          LARA (MEN
Proseco, Frultex,                                              operation. (Preminex)                                                          for
Libraport, Agrims, Seape)                                                                                                                     Li brport)
and 1 industrial
entorprise (Tilo factory).
(liT) Restructuring
TRANS tT                                                 Elltnation of transport               Restructurlng proposals according       MICA, WCI
activities.                           to the decision to limlt operations
only to leportation of vehicles and
spare pert. (July 1B86)
C.H.I. - "otols                                          Management Contract with privato       Study of hotel sector.                  wCI,
partner.                              Rationaliaotton of managmet.            Tourim
Air Ouine                                                Restructurng study.                    Analysis and imploewntation of Ut
restrueturing plon. (Matrh 1939)



?tMUs MAI  EW OMIC FCt AIMES
IA_S  ENIIONED AND                IESIOLE
_EJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROL'W           RELTS TO OATE AND OOD& ATONS                  SCNED5E OF ACT1IONS
B. I5srovOI5t of lesI          Exstetoc  of a lega  systm       Adoption of everal cods.              Psemlgat
sod instiltutioel           ond legiolstin that are am    - Imv.amt Cods                           - PM  (September 19S)
fra mewor                   I     r_ rtao snd at time        - 11.1m  Cods                        - Prou rem nt Cods (Ssptodbr 19UN)
lono etott with oae            - Petrolem  Cods                      - Custoem Cods (September IlI8)
another.                        - Electrieity Cods                     - Price lostelation (June ISM
- Commerctit Law                      - Tex Cods (l reb loWt)
Pitticultlio In  tesfe woemt    - Labor Cods
of tleg1 texOt de to lack       - Esvirommst Cods                     Reduo delays is publicatise   f         Sof
of Staf  end   atortal          - Fisertieo Cods                       Ofticol Journa  sNd  _sre that It
resources.                                                            tI published oe   regular b s1.
Ut. Imarov emnt ancid
manseont of                                                                                                                                             o
national economy
6. Administrative reform       Inefficient adTinistration,      Adoption of organic dcbres for        Adopt text* and organizatlonal          StAFP and
often not adopted to needet     all tinistries and department  of      struectres for central n9gnes of      minlstries
- overstaffed civil service;    State.                                 all doprtmsent. (August 1988)          concerned
- poor dministrative and
finantial managmont of        Adoption of orgnizational              Adopt texts relsted to reglim
personnel;                    structures for central 9gneIes of    npplTcabl- to state employees
- lnsufficient training of      9 departments.                         leaving the civil  ervice. (August
personnel.                                                           lg8)
Publication of the law defining
basic principles of tho civil         Adopt texts defining tanks and
sorvice and of the law taking         organizational structure  of
personnel In grades E, F and 0 of     decentralized ervicen. (Morch 1969)
the budget.
Revise civil service stcz waes. 
Preparation of draft lepl toxts       (March 1989)                                        GQ
relating to reform of personnel
clsesification.                       Put In place DAAF. (October 1988)                    o' C
0



AMNEKs MATRIX OF ECONOMIC POUCrt NEASURES
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAt PROBLEMS         RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGONG ACNS               SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS               AGENCIES
Decre, on cretion of                  Publicntion of *valuation test  of
administratlv  and financial         MEF. (June 1988)
attalr divisions (DAAF).
Completion of *valuation toet.
Cen u  of employees In elivl          - Eduetion
*ervice.                              - HPCI (July 1988)
- MR  (Augs I9M,
Publication of  vevlustion test         Health (Noveber 1988) and
reults for the BCRO, Livestock          other d.partmnts (July-
Servle , HIPUE, WAFP.                   November 1968)
Organiation of evluantion tests       Confirmtlon of employes retained
for 15,000 civil servants.            1n e ntral *srIces of the  PCI,
MtAFP and IEV  (December 1988)
End of administrative rerv  and
access to voluntary dsprture
proam for employee  now on
administrative resrve following
closing of public enterpriss.
(oeember 1988)
PlHaes at of 6,560 employee on        Placemt of all employee not
administrative rserve, 4,619          retained follosing testinm  and
employees on early retiremet and      selection (except teching staff of
8,581 on retirement.                  the MEN) In the systm applicable
to employee leaving the eivil
*ervice. (June 1989)



sMS     NARI OF ECgMIC POUCY WEMEE
MEASURES ENHSSIONED AND         RESPONSIDLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS           STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE N0  ONCOIYC ACTIONS          SC-E         OF ACTIONS          AGENCIES
Voluntary departure of 1,478         Layoffs at the end of this regime.
employee and removol of 14,444
*mployjo  from the budget.           Put In place a traiInlg progra  for
;retained employes. Cresw the
Adminletrstlv TrainIng Center
(CPA). (Decembr 1968)
Create O  cmputerlad eotral filo    URAFP
of elvil  srvice e*ployees and
_pdate It regularly. (Jun 1989)
RbhabI I itate administrative and       AFP, UM
fi _anial management of state
employsee, and audit thi r f lle*.                co
1t1
.0x



AlWXs  MAlIX OF ECUHEIC POLICY WAShfE
MEASRES ENVISIOED AN            RESPONSI
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS           SRU     AL PBLES           RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTIONS           SCHEDULE OF ACTI ONS            AGENtIES
T. Pubilc finance             No budget having force of       Adoption of a Budget law for 1986.   Circular on guldellee  for
Budget law                  law before 1988.                (April 106I)                         properation of the 1980 buget.
(July 163)
Adopt 1909 Budget law.
(Dcme  1066)
Prepre an inteel report on
execution of the 16 budgt (April
1080) and a fInal report.
(Octoer 1093)
Financial regime              Law No. 18/N/70 of Augut                                              Prepro lega  text on a finncial           mE
27,. 1909, no longer                                                 reglme having tboe for  of organic
corresponds to current                                               low relating to financlal In. 
administrative reality,                                              (Janury 100)W
eomplux d disorganized
provisilo amede  by Lw  No.
2t/PRO/IO of Septembe 11,
1ON, slush re-estbliuhes o
single ntional budget and
creates the MinIstry of
EcoM  sad Finence, dlc
hm salsuthority teo  o_eit
geeaatexpenditures.
_neral reglatime on           Ssgletion  ea pn ip s     .     Prpoere and adop  a deee              Prpre and a         d*c r
pubili  ccouing               ant     are Inslued  n          establbl g public acceumbig          establishing .4tIl aseosntlg
Law 10/MI/7g.                   rules. (Mrh In")                     ruls. (lar. 166)
Use*iterI  execution of       Many expenditur   are pald      Centrali leebcnl of cemited
ibudetary expniture           without a perio  budg ry        ependiture  at the leel of                                                                  c
(comitment. situation),        o.mitmn.            _l.dt Dlroirette. (Jan. S)



MIlUt MAIX OF eiCmC POUCY eEAUS
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSIBlE
OBJECTIvES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTINS            SCHDULE OF ACnONS                a
pay                                                                                                  Crto  n DIrectorate Cneral,of
Budets a central pay service NW
put In plece a pmanet monltoring
*nd control system for waw bilII.
(Dcebr  196)
Promote domestle taxation      Weak tax ylold                  Data on compnles.                     Cesus and computerization ot
taxpayer fitl. (mid-1989)
Estabilisment of a bureau of
corporat taxation.                   Revise relstration and stmp tax
cod. (March 1989)
Start up of flscal rform.
armaonisation of texation of
tobacco and alcoholic bevrage.
(Dreember 1968)
Revlis Tax Code. (March 1960)
Iplemenation of a fiscl cadare
srvice. (mid-198)
WI
0 



AIBIE:i MATRIX CF EtOlC POUCt MEASRS
WASUR  EWISIONED AND            RESPONIILE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS           STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AONDOING ACTIONS             SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS              ACIE
B. External Pubilc debt       Lack of coordination aong       Preprstlon of computeland           Drw up, evry yer, a policy on
policy                     various partielpants: MPCI,    document on debt structure so of      ne  borrowing ed eventual
MEF, BCRO.                     December 81, 1967.                    reneotltion of the debt, taking
Into account the macro_enmic
Nigh external debt to GODP or                                        frameork.
external debt service to
export earnings retio.                                               Moratorium on contrcting
noncecesstona l boerrawtng over the
cou    of the progr".
Regularly update the coeputrize
ftle of external public  debt.
9. Investment program         Existence of some project.      Institution of roliIng three-year    Do not enter projects Into the PiP         WPCI
not previously Included ln     progrm of public Investment,.         without prior studies *so ing their
the PIP.                                                             technical, economical and financial              °
Estblilshmnt of a central project   viability.
Weaknes of project             file.
appraisl and monitoring.                                            Adept the 1969-91 PP.
Adoption of the 196-90 PIP.          (Decbr 196)
Insufficient bankable          (April 1988)
proposals.
I'-4
Ci



ANNEX: MATRIX OF ECONOMIC POLICY MEASURES
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND          RESPONSIBLE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUC1UiAL PROBLEMS         RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTIONS            SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS               AOENCIES
1l. Manacement of public
enterprises
Planning decision on                                                                                   Evaluation of appropriateness of
creatlon of   w r,ublic                                                                                creating any new public onterprise.
entrprlises
Improvement of the                                                                                     Prior evoluation to determine
performanco of enterprises                                                                             economic and financilt
that remain in the state                                                                               Justification before croetion of
portfolIo                                                                                              any entorprises  ith sip to 26X
state partielpation.
Submit enterpriss to greater
financial disciplne. (Conform the                   %O
financlal statements to PCCG;
systsmtize external audits,
restructure lndebtednos and
Improve collection.)
RatIonalizatIon of supervision          MRAFP In
rolationship. (Adopt basic              connection
principles in June 1968 and             with depart-
promulgate lol cadre In March            ents
1969).                                  cone rned
D eisions on applieation of             MEF end
performance contracts In                ministrieos
enterprises remaining in the public    concerned
sector: electritity, water, postal
office air transporte, poet office
and telecoemunications. (Liquidate
old units and/or create now                           VI
companiso).
0
.0-
4 ¢



ANEX:  MATRIX OF ECONOMIC POLICY MEASRS
MEASURES ENVISIONED AMS          RESPOU6IBL
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS            STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS        RESULTS TO DATE AND ONGOING ACTIONS            SCHEDULE OF ACTIONS
11. Social dimension           Weak coverage of health and     Implm_ntation of program of            Improve water supply and
oducation services              primary health care.                   sanitation.
Pursue a proora  of primasy helth
cars.
Adopt a development strategy for
the education sector aiomd at
improvtag primary education and to
ensure participation by the
populatton. (1989)
Preparation of a land use plan for    Isplement the land ae" plan and        mmN
the city of Conakry and sose towns   draw up policy on public housing.
of the Interior.
Ensure participation of       Difficultios In converting       Granting of transportation and         Put In place a system to promot        MRAFP, kV
the most needy in tho         civil servants to the            cost of living adjustments,            mall- and medium-scalo enter-
growth process and protect    privat  sector.                                                         prisso directed toward forer civil
the most vulnerable groups                                     BARAF put in place.                    servants.
in the recovery proce"t.      Unemployment of young
graduates.                      System of voluntary departure put      Draw up and execut micro-projects
in place,                             In association with non-
Fall in purchasing power of                                            governmental organizations, perti-
certain socio-professional                                             cularly in the area of training and
categories,                                                            refresher courss.
Implement a program of priority
masures aimed at Improving hoelth,
nutrition and drinking water supply
conditions.
Carry out a pormnent survey on
household living conditions.
Perform socio-economic analysis.
Strengthen ability to identify,                  0
appraise and monitor sociol



ANNEXt MATRIX OF ECONOMIC POLUCY MEAStRSO
MEASURES ENVISIONED AND              RESPONSISUE
OBJECTIVES AND AREAS               STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS           RESULTS TO DATE AND ONCOING ACTIONS                 SCMEDULE OF ACTIONS                  AGENCIES
12. Monitoring the economy        Insufficient statistical            Broadening of the statistical              Put tn piece a tecbnical  comittem          CCEF
and control of                data.                               bass.                                     for monitoring of tho economy and
execution of the                                                                                            control of execution of the PREF
Economic and Financial        Insufficient coordination of    CCEF put into place.                          and appoint the CCEF coordinator.
Recovery Program              various aspects of economic                                                    (Septembor 1988)
(PREF)                       policy.
0
'.-     .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&1



| Q U |1+l 8- /J? > '4,w, =____'___________'                                                                                                                        IB,^ ] ( 5. Ad7 \ > 7 _ s18RD 20873
MAURITANIA                                                              12-                                            o 10
dSENEGL v  M  t I  ,S  E  N  E  G    A  L                                      s                                               
SNEGALY        MAL
/ RURKINA                                                                                                                                   L
|t  E   AAGU IN EA            R      K         -,
SIRR  S7.~                                                                 I OTE                          ;                                                    X- 
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT R E   N                                                        E     N  E
Second Structural Acfustent Credit \
L Iivestockt Deveboprnent Proiect Locations                   First Category RoadJs).                                                        .2.       t                  *_.
___J   RiceDevelopmPentProject,ONADER         \,        -.---.----.  Railways                     1--t                   T        EA.
LI*-.]  Rice Development Project, Pilot Area       a/   C  *    International Airport                                                    FO    STf3 RE  10           '4''f';;   )3u-¢t
*     Rice DeveloPr~t Project, Rsearch Statioi<t~         ±     Regularly Serviced Airports*  ,-G. :,,.'- :.. >
A     Daboyo Pimea>ple Project         ~               flzD-'-  Rivers         . J.
ReGOGtN Natural Regions                  f. -- International Boundaries b\}': t  '':;;,
':;2S .   Rain Forest                                                                                                                                                       7      
-e-   5.  Savannah ta Bush Savannah                 -                  KILOMRtERS °,  25)  4,0  60  e0  100                                          A      :-       $             Xf
[|     Bush toTree Savannah                                               MILtS 6     o'4        0           i( @                                      >.,  
I Fouto Ojalon hilly, lightly forested,upodplateau)eou)>\                                                    L  I B  E  R  I A                                        /       *
..i;, '- . Light Forest ,to Tree Savannah ........... ?) Ano  
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-.Mangrove Swameps                >7 nwqhibdsw"*we@ d/../.
~ ight Forest with SwalmPyAreas                          (:9r                                  _mmaommcs>9                                       / 
APRIL 198E



IBRD 20874
14-
S E NEGAJ-
..   .    .   .    .. .    .   .               . .                            . .    .
Baimoko
,-       (~~~~~k 
THE1 ;AM    -'                                                                 *   River5 .ona  boundariest                               e-                                 L   /\                      t.
GUINEAt fJ-      t                             BURKINi A,   |                 Elevatons in meters                        !X J                                             
C o n a i z @ ; o  r   t   2 >   )         t       i   ~~~1 0 0 0                              (                                                   z    _   
) LtEiERIA   ¢     /            ~~~KILOMETERS 0       40         80        120       160                                f     a     >        s      < t
X , .f 'f   -wi- _!:'i   '            t.                   .  ~~MILES  0  20        40      60       80                 100                                                              T6 A idj          $
______________.,____                                  ._                     12                                                      1         L IB E RIA    W                  
APRIL 1988~i



