Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1926 GUI
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 29, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1926 GUI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  June  29,  1988,  between  the  REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
June  4,  1988  from  the  Borrower  forwarding  a  Declaration of
Development Policy of the Borrower  with an annex and side-letter:
(i) describing  a  program  of  objectives,  policies  and actions
designed  to  achieve  structural  adjustment  of  the  Borrower's
economy (the Program); (ii) declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from
the  Association  in  the  financing  of  urgently  needed imports
required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the Association as Admi-
nistrator of a Special  Joint  Financing  from Japan (the Japanese
Grant Administrator) to  provide  additional assistance in support
of the Program under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the
Special African Facility, and by  an  agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and the Japanese Grant Administrator (the Japanese
Page  2
Grant Agreement), the Japanese  Grant Administrator is agreeing to
provide such assistance in  an  amount of four hundred twenty-five
million Japanese Yen ( 425,000,000) (the Japanese Grant);
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the Overseas
Economic  Cooperation  Fund  of  Japan  (OECF)  under  the Special
Joint Financing  Agreement  for  the  Special  African  Facility a
loan (the OECF Loan)  in  an  amount  of  one billion Japanese Yen
( 1,000,000,000) to assist  in  the financing of imports required
during the execution of  the  Program  on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the  OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and OECF;
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development Fund (AfDF) a  credit  (the  AfDF Credit) to assist in
the financing of  imports  required  during  the  execution of the
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
AfDF Credit Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
AfDF;
     (E)  the Borrower  intends  to  request  additional financing
from other donors in support of the Program; and
     (F)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided in support of  the Program to provide such assis-
tance to the Borrower  by  making  the  Credit  in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agree-
     ment.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Page  3
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  "BCRG" means the  Banque  Centrale  de  la Republique de
Guinee,  the  Borrower's  central   bank,  operating  pursuant  to
Ordonnances No. 235/PRG/85 and 236/PRG/85 of September 28, 1985.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to forty-
seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 47,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars,  or  in any other currency which the
Borrower and the Association may  agree upon, a special account in
BCRG on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November  1,  1998,  and ending May 1, 2028.
Each installment  to  and  including  the  installment  payable on
May 1, 2008, shall be  one  percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall  be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
Page  4
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Governor  of  BCRG is designated as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
     (b)  Without  limitation  or  restriction  to  the foregoing,
the Borrower  hereby  entrusts  BCRG  with  responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal  applications  under  the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association  in  support  of  such applications; such with-
drawal applications  shall,  to  the  extent  practicable, be con-
solidated so as to  apply  for  withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1988, assign the civil  servants  selected pursuant to the testing
and evaluation  operations  or  other  qualified  personnel to the
positions authorized  by  the  cadres  organiques  of  the central
departments  of   the   Ministries   of   Plan  and  International
Cooperation, Economy and  Finance,  and  Administrative Reform and
Civil Service.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
Page  5
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a) a situation  has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out;
     (b)  the instruments establishing the Borrower's Economic and
Financial  Coordinating   Committee   shall   have  been  amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to threaten, in the
opinion of the Association, the success of the Program;
     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)   The right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                     Borrower  for   the   financing   of  imports
                     required during the  execution of the Program
                     shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                     terminated in whole  or  in part, pursuant to
                     the   terms   of   the   agreement  providing
                     therefor, or
               (B)   any such loan shall  have become due and pay-
                     able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the financing  of imports required during
               the execution of the  Program  are available to the
               Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has ratified  the agreements establishing a
new petroleum supply and distribution company;
     (b)  a new Public Procurement Code and General Accounting Law
have been enacted and published;
     (c)  the Development  Credit  Agreement  between the Borrower
and the Association for an Economic Management Support Project has
been signed;
     (d)  the Borrower has adopted  new  cadres organiques for the
central departments of its ministries and secretariats d'Etat;
     (e)  the  instruments  governing  the  schemes  applicable to
civil servants leaving  the  civil  service  or public enterprises
have been promulgated;
     (f)  arrete No. 1713/MEF/1988  of  March  1, 1988, regulating
the import and production of cement  in the Republic of Guinea has
been modified, a calendar  for  the reduction of tariff protection
has been adopted and all  other  forms of protection stipulated in
said arrete have been abolished; and
     (g)  the wholesale price of  imported  food aid rice has been
established.
     Section 5.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that  the Code and the Law
referred to in Section 5.01  (b)  of this Agreement have been duly
published and are in effect.
     Section 5.03. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy  and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          B.P. 579
          Conakry
          Republique de Guinee
Page  7
                                              Telex:
                                                 22399 MIFI
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                   By /s/ Tolo Beavogui
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
Page  8
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718         718.7                 Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts  thereof,  fuel ele-
                                        ments  (cartridges),  non-
                                        irradiated   for   nuclear
                                        reactors
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      897         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971         -                     Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 11,750,000 for  petroleum  products  and SDR 11,750,000 for
foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and  the  total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the  equivalent  of  SDR 21,000,000, unless the
Association shall be  satisfied,  after  the  exchange of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement, based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out  of the Program; and (b) that the
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Except as provided in  paragraph  2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and  II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods to be  procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions  or  state-owned  enterprises  estimated to
cost the equivalent of less  than  $500,000 each may be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods.
     (b)  Contracts for goods to  be  procured by private entities
and  contracts  for  foodstuffs  and  petroleum  products commonly
traded in the international market may  be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information  as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
Page  10
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.04 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower has  enacted  financial (including budgeting and
accounting) regulations and  procedures  governing central govern-
ment financial transactions.
2.   The Borrower has adopted a  public investment program for the
period 1989-1991.
3.   The 1989 budget has been  enacted; a public accounting system
has been set in place; and  a  report on the execution of the 1988
budget and an interim report  on  the execution of the 1989 budget
have been prepared.
4.   The  Borrower  has   adopted  new  organizational  structures
(cadres  organiques)  for  the  decentralized  departments  of its
administration.
5.   The Borrower has for  all  its departments with the exception
of the teachers of  the  Ministry  of Education: (i) completed the
staff  testing  and  selection  process;  (ii)  confirmed selected
staff; and (iii) transferred  non-selected  staff to the severance
scheme.
6.   The Borrower has established a central payroll service at its
Ministry of Economy and Finance  and a permanent mechanism for the
monitoring and control of personnel rolls and wage bills.
7.   The Borrower  has  established  a  central corporate taxpayer
file on the basis of a census of corporate taxpayers.
8.   A law governing the  relations  between  the Borrower and its
public enterprises has been enacted.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit into accordance with the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation"   means an amount equi-
Page  11
valent to $5,000,000 to be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the  Special  Account.  On  the basis of such
requests, the Association shall  withdraw  from the Credit Account
and deposit into  the  Special  Account  such  amounts as shall be
required  to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the  Association  from  the   Credit  Account  in  the  respective
equivalent amounts as shall  have  been  justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by  the  Association  pursuant to Sec-
               tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
               the Program, shall  be  equal  to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  shall  follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
Page  12
nished to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly upon
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association for
crediting to the Credit Account) an  amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
