Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1985 GUI
                   (Second Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINEE
                         Dated May 3, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1985 GUI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  May  3,  1989,  between  the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the   Association)   and  the  SOCIETE
NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINEE (SONEG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Guinea  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to twenty-
nine  million  three  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 29,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that SONEG
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B) by a Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  to be entered into
between  the  Borrower  and  SONEG,  the  proceeds  of  the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to SONEG on the  terms  and conditions set forth in said
Page  2
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SONEG, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  SONEG  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
                               - 2 -
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,   engineering  and  water
supply practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  SONEG shall entrust  the  operation  of its water supply
system to SEEG pursuant to the Lease Contract.
     (c)  SONEG shall, for the  purposes  of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars  a  special  account  in  a commercial bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. SONEG shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. SONEG  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Financing  Agreement.  Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, SONEG shall  not take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving  the  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) SONEG shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Financing Agreement,  and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  SONEG shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  and the
Borrower of any condition which  interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of  the  Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SONEG of its obliga-
Page  3
tions under  this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement.
                               - 3 -
     Section 2.06. SONEG shall, not  later than October 31 of each
year starting with 1989, submit to the Association for its review:
     (a)  its proposed operating  and  capital expenditure budgets
for the following year;
     (b)  financial forecasts for the following three years;
     (c)  a detailed training program for the following year; and
     (d)  a draft revised  version  of  the  Contrat-Plan with the
Borrower covering the following three years.
     Section 2.07. SONEG shall, not  later than December 31, 1989,
submit to the  Association  for  its  review new accounting proce-
dures,  including   the   preparation   of  consolidated  sectoral
accounts.
     Section  2.08.   SONEG   shall,   starting   not  later  than
December 31, 1989, maintain its  staffing at a level not exceeding
60 staff.
     Section 2.09. SONEG  shall:  (a)  cause  SEEG  to prepare and
thereafter monitor and update on a six-monthly basis a program for
carrying out Part C  of  the Project, including proposed financing
and procurement methods in  accordance  with  the Schedule to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  submit such program and  updates thereof to the Associa-
tion for its review.
     Section 2.10. SONEG shall:  (a)  cause  SEEG to report perio-
dically to SONEG on  its  operating and financial performance; and
(b) forward such information to  the Association in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section 2.11. SONEG  and  SEEG  shall  consult  each other to
decide on  the  construction  of  new  standpipes  in  Conakry and
secondary urban centers.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of SONEG
     Section 3.01. SONEG shall, and  shall cause SEEG to, carry on
its operations and conduct  its  affairs  in accordance with sound
                               - 4 -
administrative, financial, engineering  and water supply practices
with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. SONEG shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property and, from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and water supply practices.
     Section 3.03. SONEG shall take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) SONEG  shall  maintain records and accounts
Page  4
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  SONEG shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later than eight months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  without limitation to  the  provisions of paragraph
               (b)(ii) of this Section, furnish to the Association
               as soon as  available,  but  in  any case not later
               than two months  after  the  end of each four-month
               period:  (A)  audited   statements  of  water  dis-
               tributed,  billed  and  collected,  of  the Special
               Account and of the records and accounts referred to
                               - 5 -
               in paragraph  (c)  of  this  Section,  and  (B) the
               report of the four-monthly  audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably determined; and
         (iv)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, SONEG shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) SONEG shall:
          (i)  maintain a single rate  on  water use applicable to
Page  5
               all users for a period  ending not earlier than one
               year after the  completion  of  the installation of
               water meters on all service connections; and
                               - 6 -
         (ii)  thereafter,  maintain,  except  as  the Association
               shall otherwise agree,  its  lowest rate applicable
               to any category of  customers  at  a level not less
               than  1.2  times  the  average  consolidated  water
               supply operating  costs,  calculated  by adding the
               lease contractor rate  to SONEG's average operating
               expenses  per  cubic  meter  of  water distributed,
               billed and collected.
     (b)  For the purposes  of  this  Section, the term "operating
expenses" means total  operating  expenses,  as defined in Section
4.06 (d)(iv) of this Agreement, minus provision for depreciation.
     Section 4.03. SONEG shall  not,  until the Project shall have
been completed, make  any  new  investment  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of more  than  $1,000,000  each, unless such investment
shall, in the opinion  of  the Association, be technically, finan-
cially and economically viable  based  on detailed financing plans
and forecasts submitted to the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, SONEG shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenses of SONEG shows that the estimated net
revenues of SONEG for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred  shall  be  at  least  equal  to the estimated debt
service requirements of SONEG in  such  year  on all debt of SONEG
including the debt to be incurred, but excluding the debt borne by
the Borrower pursuant to the Contrat-Plan.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness of SONEG
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
                               - 7 -
               (A)   the sum of revenues  from all sources related
                     to operations  and  net non-operating income;
                     and
               (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                     including  administration,  adequate  mainte-
                     nance, taxes and  payments  in lieu of taxes,
                     but  excluding  provision  for  depreciation,
                     other non-cash operating charges and interest
                     and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)   revenues from  all  sources  other than those
                     related to operations; and
               (B)   expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments in
Page  6
                     lieu of taxes, incurred  in the generation of
                     revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by SONEG  not  earlier  than twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which both  the  Association  and  SONEG  accept as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified SONEG of  its acceptability, provided that
               no event has occurred since such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of SONEG.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
                               - 8 -
     Section 4.05. SONEG shall, each  year,  carry out a pro forma
revaluation of the net value  of  its fixed assets, to such extent
as shall be necessary to  reflect  adequately, at the time of each
such revaluation, the current  value  thereof in accordance with a
sound and consistently applied  method of valuation, acceptable to
the Association.
     Section 4.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, SONEG shall earn, for each of its fiscal years from 1991 to
1993, an annual  return  of  not  less  than  1.5%  of the average
current net value of  SONEG's  fixed  assets in operation, and for
each of its fiscal years  thereafter  an annual return of not less
than 2.5% of said value.
     (b)  Before September 30 in  each  of its fiscal years, SONEG
shall, on the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by SONEG and satis-
factory to  the  Association,  review  whether  it  would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the  next  following  fiscal  year  and  shall  furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows  that  SONEG would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a) for SONEG's fiscal years
covered by such review,  SONEG  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               SONEG's net income for  the fiscal year in question
               by one half of the sum  of the current net value of
               SONEG's fixed assets in  operation at the beginning
               and at the end of that fiscal year;
         (ii)  the term  "net  income"  means  total revenues less
               total operating expenses;
        (iii)  the term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues
               from all  sources  related  to  operations and con-
               tributions  to  debt   service  from  the  national
Page  7
               budget;
         (iv)  the  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
                               - 9 -
               in lieu of  taxes,  and provision for depreciation,
               in  accordance  with  accounting  methods generally
               accepted in  water  supply  or  on  any other basis
               acceptable  to  the  Association,  of  the  average
               current gross  value  of  SONEG's  fixed  assets in
               operation, but excluding interest and other charges
               on debt;
          (v)  the average current  gross  value  of SONEG's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum  of  the  gross  value  of SONEG's fixed
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of the fiscal year, as  valued from time to time in
               accordance with the  methods  of valuation referred
               to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement; and
         (vi)  the term "current net value of SONEG's fixed assets
               in operation"  means  the  gross  value  of SONEG's
               fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the  amount  of
               accumulated depreciation,  as  valued  from time to
               time in accordance  with  the  methods of valuation
               referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of SONEG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date twenty (20)  years  after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b) If  the  Development   Credit   Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
SONEG of this event.
                              - 10 -
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
telex or  facsimile  to  the  party  to  which  it  is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
Page  8
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For SONEG:
          Societe Nationale des Eaux de Guinee
          Conakry
          Republic of Guinea
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  SONEG,  or  by  SONEG  on  behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by  SONEG's  Director  General  or  such  other person or
persons as the Director  General  shall  designate in writing, and
                              - 11 -
SONEG shall furnish to the  Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DE GUINEE
                    By /s/ Kekoura Camara
                                        Authorized Representative
                              - 12 -
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent
of $100,000 each, and  contracts  for  civil works in bid packages
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 each.
3.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic
of Guinea may  be  granted  a  margin  of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in  Part  A.1  hereof,  a  margin  of  preference may be
granted to domestic  contractors  in  accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for Parts  A  and  D  of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or  less, and goods for Parts A, D
and E of the Project estimated  to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or less may be procured under contracts awarded:
                              - 13 -
     (a)  through limited international  bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures  set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof), up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $1,500,000; or
     (b)  on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures  satisfactory to the Association, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.   Civil works and goods for Part  C of the Project estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $250,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $1,000,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
from at least two  different  countries  eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance  with  procedures  acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
3.   Proprietary equipment  and  spare  parts  for  Part  C of the
Project may be purchased  by  direct  negotiated contract with one
manufacturer or supplier, up to  an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $1,000,000,  if  in  the opinion of the Associa-
tion:
     (a)  suitable  equipment  or  spare  parts,  compatible  with
Page  10
equipment  already  in  place,  cannot  be  obtained  from another
source; and
     (b)  the cost of such equipment or spare parts is reasonable.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.3 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  for  civil works under
Parts A, C and D of  the  Project  estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $250,000 and for goods under  Parts A, C, D and E of
                              - 14 -
the  Project  estimated  to  cost  more  than  the  equivalent  of
$100,000, the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made  out  of  the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be  furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished to the Association
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In  order  to  assist  SONEG  in  carrying  out  the Project,
SONEG shall  employ  management,  financial,  economic,  legal and
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Such consultants shall be  selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis
of the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use  of  Consultants  by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
