Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24246
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27470)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.00 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN
FOR A
PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 3, 2002
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 1995 [at Board approval])
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1 = US$ 0.032
US$ 1 = Rs 31.20
At Completion (December 31, 2001): US$1 = Rs 62.73
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CO                 Community Organization
DFO                Divisional Forest Officer
ERR               Economic Rate of Retum
FMS                Ftnancial Management Specialist
GOPunj/GOPunjab    Government of Punjab
HRD                Human Resource Development
IRR                Intemal Rate of Retum
ITP                Irrigated Timber Plantation
M&E                Monitonng and Evaluation
MIS               Management Information System
NESPAK            National Engineerng Service of Pakistan
NGO               Non-Govemment Organization
NRM                Natural Resource Management
NRSP              National Rural Support Program
OD/OP/BP           Operational Directives/Policies and Bank Procedures
PC-I              Planning Commission Proforma Number I
PD                Project Director
PERI              Punjab Economic Research Institute
PFD               Punjab Forest Department
PFRI              Punjab Forest Research Institute
PLA               Personal Ledger Account
PMR               Project Management Report
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDFO              Sub-Divisional Forest Officer
SDR               Special Drawing Right
SRSFM             Social Range and Scrub Forest Management
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Adolfo Brizzi/Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Rashed Ul Qayyum



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 I1
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   18
10. Additional Infonnation                                                            21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                                 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010481                                     |Project Name: PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEV.
Team Leader: Rashed Ul Qayyum                            TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 3, 2002
1. Project Data
Name PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEV.                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-27470
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                           Regzon: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AT - Forestry
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/14/1992                            Effective: 10/25/1995         09/29/1995
Appraisal:  06/02/1994                               MTR- 03/01/1999           03/01/1999
Approval:  06/20/1995                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/PUNJAB FOREST DEPARTMENT
Other Partners: NOT APPLICABLE
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph Wood
Country Manager-     John W. Wall                             Paul Isenrnan
Sector Manager:      Constance A. Bernard                     Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:  Rashed Ul Qayyum                         Nadim Khouri
ICR Primary Author:  Rashed Ul Qayyurn
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=1Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The overall development objective of the project was to improve the performance of the forestry
sector in Punjab (for background and situational context, refer to para 1-2 of Annex 8), entailing the
natural, financial and human resources operating in the sector. The specific objectives were to: (i)
broaden the productive base of wood through the expansion of farm forestry and promoting private
sector participation in plantation management; (ii) introduce community-based rehabilitation and
management of scrub forests and rangelands; and (iii) strengthen local, public, and community
institutions managing the sector in Punjab.
3.1.2  The objective was clear. The targets set for achieving the project objective were, by and large,
realistic. These were achievable provided the resources, as outlined in project documents, were made
available in a timely manner. Two concepts, namely community-based management of
rangelands/scrub forest areas and studies on involving private sector in the management of irrigated
timber plantations, were newly introduced to the PFD. The project was not complex, the number of
components was small, and the number of institutions involved was not large. The organizational
structure proposed in the design was capable of handling the geographic spread. The overall objective
was also in consonance with the provisions of the country's development plans, national conservation
strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategy. Finally, the project had a good degree of
government ownership because, in a bid to sustain the momentum generated by an earlier USAID
supported farm forestry project that primarily focused on the rain-fed areas, GOPunjab was keen to give
a boost to farm forestry in the province.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable. The objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The project components were:
(i) Institutional Support -- $ 2.19 m. (7%). The component included an in-depth study of human
resources in the sector. The results of the study were to guide overall institutional reform. An
administrative unit for project implementation was to be established and the existing monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) unit strengthened;
(ii) Farm Forestry - $ 21.95 m. (72%). The component aimed at (i) facilitating the transfer of
technology needed to expand private sector participation through strengthening the extension capability;
(ii) facilitating the transfer of information needed to broaden farmer participation; (iii) improving the
availability of superior planting material; and (iv) undertaking adaptive research;
(iii) Social Range and Scrub Forest Management (SRSFM) Pilot -- $3.52 m. (11.5%). The component
would (i) rehabilitate about 21,400 ha of range and scrub forests; (ii) introduce participatory planning and
management systems through community organizations; (iii) test mechanisms of cost recovery; (iv)
provide training to PFD officials and farmers in participatory approaches; and (v) support applied
research on fodder trees and shrubs;
(iv) Irrigated Timber Plantations (ITP) Pilot -- $ 2.88 m.(9.5%). The component aimed at (i) preparing
a biodiversity inventory; (ii) completing a baseline study of all ITPs; (iii) preparing management plans for
priority plantations; and (iv) implementing a pilot management and rehabilitation plan for three
representative plantations.
3.3.2  The project design was kept simple, including only the major forestry sub-sectors, instead of
covering a broad set of areas which would have jeopardized the achievement of the development
objective, and to focus on the primary policy and legal reforms which would be needed for the
implementation of farm forestry and community management. This was the first exclusive forestry
project supported by the Bank in Pakistan. Prior to this, however, the Bank had assisted in a number of
projects which had substantial forestry components (such as Integrated Hill Farming and Development,
Northem Resource Management (NRMP), Environment Protection and Resource Conservation,
-2 -



Balochistan Natural Resource Management, and a series of three income generating projects for refugee
areas). Lessons learned from these projects stood in good stead while designing this project. One
lesson needs particular mention. Under the NRMP, subsidy on seedlings was removed over the project
period and in a phased manner. A similar policy measure was built into this project and was more
successfully implemented because the subsidy was removed in a much shorter period and earlier than
envisaged. Although there was a line of thought that, in order to tackle the forestry sector as a whole,
other secondary subsectors such as riverine and canal side forests should have also been included, there
was a merit in keeping the design simple. In retrospect, an issue that might have deserved more
attention during design was the decision to introduce the often-criticized Personal Ledger Account (PLA)
system, which proved to be an irritant rather than facilitating the flow of funds to lower formations of the
project implementing agency.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  Comoonent                        Cost (last PSR)     Rating (last PSR)
(i) Institutional Support                $ 1.24 m                    S
(ii) Farm Forestry                       $ 10.98 m                 HS
(iii) SRSFM                              $ 2.94m                     S
(iv) Irrigated Timber Plantation (ITP)   $ 0.98 m                    U
3.4.2 While project components were neither revised nor cancelled during implementation, the
quantitative targets, in some cases, were adjusted to reflect implementation progress and achievements.
This revision of targets had minor impact in changing the project cost in Rupee terms. While costs were
reduced for some items, the MTR allowed some more buildings, more farm forestry oriented marketing
studies and a few degree level local training courses, facilitated an NGO to carry out social mobilization,
and allowed afforestation under the irrigated plantations component. Nonetheless, in dollar terms, local
currency devaluation resulted in substantial cost reduction which led to the cancellation of SDR 5.6
million (35% of the original Credit amount).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactor/. The project design was adequate, and the development objective was consistent with
Govemment's development plans for the forestry sub-sector and Bank's country assistance strategy (as
it emphasized development through community participation, strengthening of local and public
institutions which manage the sub-sector). The procurement methods were suitable and described in
sufficient detail in SAR and further elaborated by the Bank's first mission for the project. However,
inadequate attention was paid to the design of the financial management system. The assumptions with
regard to relevant external factors were reasonable, for example, risks concerning demand for project
output, which in this case was a possible surplus eucalyptus wood, were foreseen. The project had no
issues of resettlement or indigenous people, nor any environmental degradation issue as the project was
seen to be contributing to environmental improvement.
I/ No QAE performance rating was fornally indicated in the staff appraisal report.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objective of the project, namely, to improve the performance of the forestry sector in Punjab, was
overall achieved and, accordingly, the rating of project's outcome was assessed as satisfactory. This
rating is based on the following:
4.1.1  Farm forestry.  This objective was successfully achieved through a sustained attention on
promoting farm forestry by: (i) expanding the previous work (lessons from the USAID farm forestry
project; (ii) emphasizing policy instruments that would encourage public sector to withdraw from
seedlings production and selling, but at the same time provide an effective technical services support to
private nursery operators; and (iii) allocating adequate financial resources of the project (70% of the total
cost) for activities that promoted private sector in managing tree plants at the farm level. This success
was based on sound policy changes, such as phasing out investments in public sector tree seedling
- 3 -



nurseries and inducting private entrepreneurs by phased removal of the subsidy on seedlings. These
measures created a level playing field that resulted in the establishment of farmer nurseries in the
private sector -- the number of such nurseries crossed the thousand mark at one point of time was 779 at
project completion. The public sector nurseries decreased from 700 to 174. The seedlings from these
remaining nurseries, often located in remote areas, are exclusively meant for state forests. Before the
project, farmers planted 30 million seedlings annually on an average with almost all seedlings purchased
from the govemment run nurseries. At project completion, private nurseries sell more than 50 million
seedlings annually at competitive prices. Cumulatively, 272 million seedlingsy, equivalent of 150,000 ha
of compact plantations, were planted on private farms during the project period. The incentive
framework of liberalized seedling prices was in place at project closing. As a consequence of these
measures and in view of the outcomes visible at present, sustained yields of wood and increased
farmers' income are anticipated in the future.
" It does not include about 100 million seedings planted in the publc sedor (state forests, highways, canal sides, riverine areas).
4.1.2 Community-based rehabilitation and management of scrub forests and rangelands. The
project achieved this objective by establishing 106 Community Organizations (COs). Most COs indicate
positive signs of an emerging partnership between the forest department and the communities in
managing natural resources. The project sensitized local population about the benefits of controlled
grazing and partially succeeded in securing their participation in managing rangelands. In the process,
they have better livestock productivity and recognize the need to manage the common resource more
judiciously (see para 4.2.3.2 to 4.2.3.5).
4.1.3  Institutional strengthening. The third specific objective which aimed at strengthening local,
public and community institutions managing the sector was also achieved, although with some shortfalls.
Locally based institution of existing forest guards was transformed into a dedicated corps of 'greenmen
who worked hand in hand with farmers and private nursery operators. The greenmen consisted of a
mixture of re-trained forest guards and new recruits (incremental staff), thus resulting in a gradual phase
out of the forest guards. The PFD was strengthened as an institution by creating an independent farm
forestry and extension wing and providing key professional staff for the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
unit. An important training package to reorient and strengthen the technical capacity of local and public
institutions was extensively implemented. The satisfactory achievement of this objective was limited
though, by the inability to fully implement: (i) the recommendations of the human resource development
(HRD) study that focused mainly on re-organizing the PFD; and (ii) the program of foreign training that
aimed at improving professional skills, such as those needed for enhancing the quality of forestry
research, range management, and silviculture to name a few.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs and evaluation of achievements by component are discussed below:
4.2.1  Institutional Support. The overall rating of this component is satisfactory, mainly due to the
good performance of: (a) overall institutional strengthening; (b) the local training program; and (c)
building of community institutions. The component, though, had a few shortfalls in the implementation of
the management information system (MIS) and the foreign training program, or fully reorganizing the
PFD. More detailed achievements and shortfalls are discussed below.
4.2.1.1      Institutional strengthening and project management support: Satisfactory. The
strengthening of institutions took place at the public, local, and community level. At the public level, the
project contributed to the strengthening of PFD and PFRI. Within PFD, an implementing unit for farm
forestry was established through a directorate of the project, headed by a Project Director, and was
located in Lahore. The directorate worked efficiently and effectively most of the time. It promoted and
coordinated the policy reforms introduced through farm forestry. It goes into the credit of this directorate
that it overcame implementation hurdles, whether in the form of administrative, or financial, or resistance
to change (transition from public sector to private sector approach). The strengthening of PFRI was
achieved in terms of its befter capacity to carry out research as incremental staff (two additional
directors, 7 research officers, and support staff), physical infrastructure (additional laboratories and staff
housing), equipment, and local training were provided. The institute has a critical mass of scientists, its
-4 -



research output is on the increase and its extension-training programs are well appreciated by all
stakeholders. Another achievement is the institutionalization of greenmen' at the local level. The
lowest tier, represented by 354 frontline workers, called greenmen has been responsible for farm forestry
at the levels of civil division, district, tehsil, and markaz. The work of this category of staff was key to the
success of the implementation of the farm forestry activities. At the community level, the achievements
may seem to be modest beqause only a few community organizations was raised as pilots but a more
important outcome has been the awareness within the PFD officials and the community members that
the most feasible approach for the sustainable use of natural resources is through promoting community
based institutions.
J/ Greernen, fonneiy tenmed as Forest Guards, are synornymous to frondine workers.
4.2.1.2       Human Resource Development (HRD): Unsatisfactory. A comprehensive HRD study
was carried out under the project. The study aimed at improving the institutional set-up in the forestry
sector. It produced specific province-wide recommendations concerning: (i) re-distribution of roles
between public sector forestry institutions and the private sector, (ii) redefinition of roles within public
sector forestry agencies; and (iii) required govemmental actions to support the role of public and private
sector institubons involved in the forestry sector in an efficient way. Based on a series of reports on the
various aspects of HRD (reports that identified skill gaps in forestry disciplines, discussed options of
organizational changes, or ensured greater staff involvement in defining roles and responsibilities in view
of evolving policy changes), the PFD constituted a high level committee to review these reports and
implement their recommendations, including actions for re-organizing the PFD. However, the ultimate
aim of reorganizing the department was not achieved by the project dosing date, but the committee's
deliberations are continuing. The proposed organizational setting was deferred to allow for an overlap
with federal govemment's devolubon plan to empower the districts. Therefore, adjustments were made
to the original reorganization proposal that was being considered by the committee to fit this new policy
setting. The resultant reorganization, driven by policy setting of the devolution process, implicitly
benefited from the HRD study. The counterpart PFD staff associated with the study contributed
significantly to the devolution exercise carried out by the PFD.
4.2.1.3       Technical assistance: Satisfactoty. The foreign expertise represented 12 disciplinesjj
while three were earmarked for local expertise. The utilization rate, in staff months, was good: 85% in
the case of foreign, and 90% local. The local expertise worked particularly well as the govemment,
overall, had a stronger appreciation for the contribution of the local consultants because of their better
understanding of local conditions, better applicabton of skills, and ease of availability. During
implementation, an expanded use of local experts (for instance three experts were employed for irrigated
plantations study, two local community development specialists slots were utilized for the range/scrub
forest, or NRSP was contracted for social mobilization) supports this observation. Some foreign
expertise was either curtailed (marketing, grazing research, project management, for instance) or not
contracted out (project preparation, nursery establishment, for instance), but on an overall basis, most
consultants' work was acknowledged well by the counterpart staff. There were a few areas only, such as
grazing research, silviculture and partly M&E, where understanding lacked between the expert and the
counterpart staff. As a result, the work of the expert was less appreciated, or the assignment was
curtailed, or intermittent nature of the assignment was considered to be disruptive and therefore less
productive. The recommendations of a few reports were not adequately mainstreamed or thoroughly
disseminated, which was a more of project management limitation. The shortfalls in this respect refer to
the reports of the seed, Ussue culture, and M&E in varying degrees, whereas the HRD reports were
partially mainstreamed. However, the work of agro-forestry research series, or that of the community
development expert as a hands-on community organizer, or that of the NRSP in demonstating the value
of community participation was well appreciated by all stakeholders within and outside the PFD.
1/ The foreign dbcplines were: nursery establshment, silvcutture, markeling, Ussue culture, seed, grazing research,
lnsttutlonsapolicy, HRD, project management, project preparation, project supervision, and M&E. Local disciplines were: community
development, agroforestry research and M&E.
4.2.1.4       Training: Satisfactory. Training was the basis for the re-orientation effort, and
contributed to the change of mind and approach of the local staff and community institutions. A broad
local training program covering various forestry disciplines, mass awareness, and computer use, and
- 5 -



comprising 4,880 staff weeks (about three times the assigned target) for the various tiers of PFD staff,
communities (farmers, NGOs, and women), and secretarial staff, was successfully completed. Foreign
training, however, was not availed because of the austerity measures adopted by the Govemment. It
consisted of degree courses in seeds, silviculture, and tissue culture, and short courses in community
development. It was generally recognized by all staff, particulariy staff from forestry research, that had
these training programs been effectively utilized, the quality of project performance would have been
further enhanced. The areas expected to be covered under this foreign training were addressed, albeit
with some limitations, through the local training program and in-house training provided by the technical
assistance team. The overall outcome was rated satisfactory considering that the loss of long-term
training was made up, partially, by expanding the short-term training.
4.2.1.5      Studies: Overall effectiveness of the studies is rated as satisfactory. Local
consultants/NGO, or firms or other govemment entities were contracted for: (a) reyising the project PC-1;
(b) preparing inventory, baseline study and management plans for selected irrigated timber plantations;
(c) preparing detailed designs for improvement of irrigation systems of irrigated timber plantations; (d)
preparing baseline and impact evaluation studies for the project as a whole; and (e) adapting tehsil-wise
soil surveys to interpreting location specific suitability of planting given tree species and producing
digitized tehsil-based soil maps. Of the work done, the soil survey reports on all the 106 tehsils of the
province were excellent reference documents, and the data from baseline and impact evaluation studies
will be a useful resource for future planning. The detailed designs for the improvement of the irrigation
systems of the plantations were completed in a timely manner after initial contracting delays, but
overstretching the procurement process by the government did not allow these plans to be implemented.
The major shortfall of this component is the failure to complete the eight marketing studies that were
approved by IDA but were not contracted out.
4.2.1.6      Strengthening of M&E unit: Unsatisfactory. The M&E unit was strengthened by
providing the positions of 2 divisional forest officers (DFOs), one economist, 2 statisticians, 2 sub-DFOs,
and support staff. The position of economist remained unfilled during the project period. The
performance of this monitoring unit has been satisfactory only to an extent. It's main achievements are:
compiling data on nursery operations, such as off take of seedlings and ad-hoc evaluation studies of
outcome indicators of nursery operations; providing feedback to publicity and mass awareness unit; and
generating periodic monitoring reports. However, due to conflicting mandates from the project and the
line department, the unit was unable to develop an effective management information system (MIS), and
the semi-computer based MIS it developed with the help of a local consultant in 1999 was not put to use.
In the closing stage of the project, the customized MIS software developed by the TA team was installed
and made operational. Although the baseline survey and impact assessment of the project was
contracted to an outside agency (PERI) that was to collaborate with the M&E unit, yet this collaborative
effort was not fully exploited to strengthen the analytical capacity of the unit. The PERI work, the regular
monitoring reports and periodic evaluations of nursery operations made by the unit, as well as inputs
from the TA experts, nonetheless, were invaluable in measuring some of the project's outcomes. The
rating of this sub-component was assessed as unsatisfactory although the unit provided the required
feedback and some support to the PFD but only within its limitations.
4.2.2  Farm forestry. The overall rating of this component is satisfactory, with highly satisfactory
achievements in the policy environment, which lead to a strong increase in the participation of the
private sector in forest producbtvity (para 4.2.2.1 to 4.2.2.5).
4.2.2.1      Farm forestry extension: Highly satisfactory. The main objective of this component
was to encourage the farming community to produce its own seedlings on a sustainable basis by the fifth
year of the project. It involved the phasing out of the government nurseries and establishing a network
of nurseries in the private sector. To make the switch-over possible, important changes in the policy
framework were required. They included: (i) removal of the prevalent subsidy on tree seedlings in a
phased manner so that a level playing field was available to all operators, and (ii) the removal of all
octroi charges/taxes on movement of wood, which served as disincentives in the past to planting trees on
farmlands. The PFD removed both of these elements completely over a period of two years.
Resultantly, the private entrepreneurs got established quickly and the targeted number of about 1,000
- 6 -



nurseries was achieved by the third year. The number balanced at 779 at project closing. To- date,
these nurseries have sold about 272 million seedlings to farmers. Planting of this huge number of
seedlings would virtually mean the creation of about 150,000 ha of compact plantation. The successful
implementation of this component contributed, to a large extent, to the achievement of the project
objective as a whole.
4.2.2.2      The component also included a broad extension and dissemination program that was
also implemented with great success. The activities included: village visits by greenmen who
maintained liaison with contact farmers; observing farmer days and holding of fairs, workshops and
seminars; organizing shajarkari walks; printing and distributing brochures, handbills and posters;
conducting radio talks, TV programs and film shows; hoisting of banners, installation of hoardings and
publicity stalls; and publishing of newsletters and magazines. Furthermore, seminars/workshops and
training at the PFRI provided occasions to farmers and wood dealers/consumers to get together and
discuss common issues. This extension program helped establish the required number of private farmer
nurseries and raise awareness of the farmer and common man about the usefulness of tree planting on
farmlands.
4.2.2.3      The only shortfall of this component was in completing a proper marketing intelligence
system, which was not established by the closing date, due to delays in contracting out the marketing
studies. On the basis of these achievements, and particularly taking into consideration the relevance of
the policy changes promoted and achieved, the outcome of this sub-component was rated as highly
satisfactory.
4.2.2.4      Farm forestry research: Satisfactory. The priority areas of research included primarily
improvement of nursery practices and overall tree improvement (improvement in seed quality). The
project made tangible contributions to both. For improving the nursery practices, model nurseries were
initially established by PFD all over the province where private nurserymen were provided hands-on
training. Additionally, nursery operators were given nursery training through short courses repeatedly at
PFRI premises. For improving the seed quality and using the right quantity, a tree seed supply system
was devised. Seed was collected from about 117,000 plus trees located all over the province. About
127 tons of seed of various species was collected and distributed during the project period. Storing,
cleaning, grading and packing of seed were done following instructions of the Seed Manual prepared with
assistance from the consultants. Since there are few marketing channels that were prepared to carry
tree seeds and the demand of certified seed was to be gradually built from scratch (no certified seed
system existed before the project), it made sense for the PFRI to promote the use of quality seed. PFD
instructed all its field formations to use the PFRI certified seed in its nurseries while private nursery
operators were also encouraged to use the quality seed, which was available directly from the PFRI and
was soon to be made available to them through the Agriculture Department's recommended ouUets and
three private seed dealers.
4.2.2.5      In addition to these priorites, research activities also included tree crop interface studies,
nursery techniques, increasing wood yield per unit area, planting practices, development of wild lands
and rangelands, controlling of tree pests and diseases (particularly finding solutions to the shisham
dieback problem) and improvement of sericulture. The project also made important achievements in
several of these areas. A tissue culture laboratory is fully functional, with six staff of PFRI trained in
these peculiar tree propagation techniques by the TA team. Ipil Ipil plants were successfully raised in
vitro while work on producing shisham, semal and poplar seedlings was continuing. Tree crop interface
studies were carried out through rapid rural appraisal technique and a series of six agro-forestry research
studies on major agricultural crops and a manual for agro-forestry research were printed and published.
4.2.3 Social Range and Scrub Forest Management (SRSFM). The overall rating of this component
is satisfactory, based on the success of introducing a participatory planning and management system for
forest operations in scrub areas, which led to the improved environmental conditions of these natural
systems.
4.2.3.1.     Community participation and social mobilization: Satisfactory. The objective of this
- 7 -



sub-component was to introduce community-based rehabilitation and management of scrub forests and
rangelands. Despite the slow initial start, results are visible in terms of the rehabilitation and
management of scrub forests and rangeland in partnership with communities and through the community
based organizations. On average, a CO parficipated in the improvement and joint management of 255
ha of public and communal rangelands and scrub forest. Around 100 COs were formed, of which 50
were intensively supervised. The rest were routinely supervised. This pilot approach of intensively
mobilizing and supervising communities was undertaken in partnership with the National Rural Support
Program (NRSP) who was responsible for fully supervising/managing 10 COs and providing training for
the 40 COs intensively supervised by the PFD. In the later stages of the project, the COs underwent a
screening process for long term sustainability (criteria were: whether meetings are held regularly,
minutes documented, savings generated and accounts maintained, etc.) and 32 of the intensively
supervised COs were identified as possessing the potential to be sustainable. Continuity of support to all
of these groups has been ensured by two ways, direct and indirect: (i) directly through their transfer to the
NRSP program; and (ii) indirectly through the assistance of PFD in the form of continued technical
support.
4.2.3.2      A noteworthy outcome of the public-private interaction was the emerging partnership
between the two in forest resource management. The COs have played a positive and intermediating
role in implementing the regulations of the PFD in consultation with community members, whereas
before the project, all such actions were a command from the PFD officials and implemented through
policing methods. The qualitative impact is on both sides because within the PFD, an awareness has
been created on the need to treat the communities as partners who depend on the forest resources for
their livelihood. The communities, on their part, elect their representatives freely; leam how to advocate
their case (with PFD and other govemment departments); appreciate the rationale of resource protection
regulations and the need to enforce them; and at the same Ume debate, and find ways to ensure an
equitable access of all members to the natural resources. A majority of the small stock herders in the
Thal area have directly benefitted from the improvements in pasture management where they are active
members of the COs and hold open discussions with fellow members and PFD officials on the merits of
closing a given pasture block. It facilitates a consultative process and leads to decisions that are based
on consensus. Almost all of them are landless, or at best, have nonproductive stretches of desert
parcels of land. The project also helped, indirectly, the women of these COs (where NRSP organized a
few female exclusive COs). These female members were provided training and credit lines. Major
areas of training imparted to women have been kitchen gardening, poultry and livestock care, vegetable
seed and leadership management skills. In relation to the devolution process, the project based COs
are spatially too scattered and not directly connected to any tier of decentralization. However, credit
must be given to the project whereby staff received social mobilization training and extensively practiced
these skills. As a result, villagers are better organized and are now in a position to participate actively as
members of local government institutions.
4.2.3.3      Field works (in social range/scrub forests component): Satisfactory. Field
activities, mainly pasture development and afforestation, were concentrated in two specific parts of the
province, namely Pothwar and Thal. All planned targets were fully achieved. In Pothwar, pasture
development was canried out on 5,600 ha (mostly on state land but inclusive of 500 ha of private
community managed land), seed was distributed for raising fodder crops on 1,250 ha of private land, and
12,140 ha were afforested that included about 1,700 ha. of exclusively community managed land. In
Thal, 4,360 ha of state land were also developed as pastures, 130 hand water pumps were installed on
these pastures, and afforestation was carried out on 1,440 ha, of which 730 ha were on private
community land.
4.2.3.4      The survival rates of these plantafions, or upkeep of rangelands areas treated with
fodder species and grasses, are generally good. Based on mission's field visits prior to an ICR mission,
and preliminary data collected by the M&E unit, estimated survival rates of afforestation are 80% (to
reach maturity) as the PFD fully maintains the state planted areas for three years. An overall 85%
increase in biomass production is expected annually in the pilot areas at full development. It would have
a positive impact on the environment, reduce soil degradation, and enhance water holding capacity of
soils. Ground water recharge of the areas so treated is also known to occur over a period of Ume.
-8-



Howvever, these qualitative indicators were not quanbfied because it required long term monitoring and
field studies that were not provided for in the project.
4.2.3.5      Another parameter which supports a positive outcome of this component is the
estimated increase in the household income, which ranged between 20% and 30%, due to livestock
improvement that resulted from better forage availability. Results of an impact evaluation survey
carried out by the Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI) in October 2001, indicate that although
the number of adult animal units increased by mere 6% as compared to the benchmark survey (also
carried out by PERI in 1998-99), the project area had about 60% more adult animal units per
household/farm over the non-project farms. There were slightly higher milk yields (4% higher in the case
of buffaloes) over the baseline but marginally better by 1 % in the project area over the non-project area.
However, average milch animals (large ruminants) decreased by 29%in a given household (the survey
timing of October suggests that many households may have been selling "dry" animals after the milk
flush season ended with the onset of autumn) but the heifer/young stock increased by 16%. Preliminary
results of the PERI report had earlier shown that gross income from livestock per farm was 18.5%higher
in nominal terms.
4.2.4  Irrigated timber plantations. This component was rated unsaUsfactory, because the
implementation of the management and rehabilitation plans for three plantations was not fully made.
The component focused on three plantations representing the three agro-ecological zones of the
province. Following the pilot design, an inventory of all irrigated timber plantations was carried out and
three plantations, namely Changa Manga, Lal Sohanra and Kundian, were selected. Baseline studies of
these plantations were carried out, culminating in the preparation of their management plans.
Unfortunately, the studies/plans that contained specific recommendabons for increased community and
private sector participation for the sustainable management of these plantabons were never
implemented, nor were they approved by the Govemment because of bureaucratic procedures involved.
At the MTR stage, the component was slightly restructured in order to include reforestation of empty
compartments so as to enhance the water use efficiency. One issue common to most irrigated
plantations has been the sub-optimal use of available irrigation water that eventually leaves blank
compartments.
4.2.5 The project therefore also aimed to prepare and implement detailed plans for the improvement
of the irrigation systems of the selected plantabons. The plans were prepared for six plantabons, and
works advertised but the lowest bids were not approved because of their high costs. The remaining
project period was not sufficient for re-bidding and carrying out actual works and therefore the
improvement of irrigation systems was not carried out. The program for re-foresUing about 2,225 ha,
however, went ahead and was implemented. By project dosing, about 2,183 ha was planted with mixed
success. Their sustainability has a moderate risk because the plantations are not yet fully established.
There are provisions of maintenance funds, in accordance with the management plans for these
plantations, for the next three years that will help mitigate this risk. A brighter outcome of this
component is the availability of a road map, in the form of detailed inventory and baseline reports, the
establishment of an institutional mechanism (a committee for rehabilitating irrigation systems and
environmental improvements, comprising senior foresters was established after the MTR), and
finalization of rehabilitation action plans for the improvement of the irrigaton systems. The component
was a pilot, and disbursed only 26% of its original estimate, covering 6% of the final expenditures.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The estimate of economic rate of return (ERR) for the overall project and its components has
been made using updated prices, actual project costs and latest informaton on forest productions and
other benefits. The project benefits include: (i) increase in supply of timber and non-timber forest
products; (ii) reduction in grazing pressure on natural forest areas; and (iii) it enabled natural grass and
forest cover to re-establish itielf and provide vegetative growth that would improve the natural resource
base. Farmland forestry development includes plantation of poplar, shisham, kikar, semal and other
species. The project will also produce non-quantifiable benefits such as bio-diversity conservation and
abatement in atmosphere's carbon dioxide, which are not included in the economic analysis. The basic
assumptions are consistent with those made in the appraisal report (SAR). All project outputs are treated
-9-



as non-tradable except meat. These are converted to their economic values using a standard
conversion factor of 0.9. The economic price of meat has been determined on import parity basis, while
the economic value of fuelwood has been computed by comparing it with the value of the same quantum
of energy using the kerosene oil, as worked out in the SAR. Summary of results is:
Economic Rates of Retum, %
Project & its components               At        At appraisal   Range in
completion       (SAR)          SAR
Farm Forestry                                 14.9           13.2         14-19
Social, Range/Scrub Forest Mgt (SRSFM)        14.1           11.6         12-14
SRSFM, Pothwar                              15.0           11.5           15b
SRSFM, Thal                                 11.0           11.8        11b
Irrigated Timber Plantations                  11.3        not calculated  not available
Overall Project                              14.4           13.3         14-18
Note. In the SAR. ERRs are Indicated in a wide range, e g., 14-18% for the overall project. 14-19% for farm forestry, and 12-14% for
SRSFM. Different figures were reported in the SAR against multple scenarios. The calculations at the ICR stage are compared with
one scenano, that Is closest to the availability of actual data In the case of SRSFM component, SAR values (12% overall, 15% for
Potwar and 11% for Thal) have been corrected to eliminate double counting of benefit streams as incremental sheep weights and
incremental biomass were both counted as benefits.
4.3.2  The ERRs are within the range of ERRs estimated at appraisal. The rationale and assumptions
used for the economic analysis, including sensitivity analysis, are provided in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Rates of Retum, %
Project & its components               At        At appraisal      NPV
completion        (SAR)        (PRs, m)
Farm Forestry                                 14.1           11.0         503.48
Social, Range/Scrub Forest Mgt (SRSFM)        17.3           16.0         103.14
SRSFM, Pothwar                               18.6           17.0          78.33
SRSFM, ThaI                                  13.1           15.0          24.80
Irrigated Timber Plantations                  11.6        not calculated  25.59
Overall Project                              14.0           12.3         632.21
In the SAR, FRRs are indicated in a range, e.g. 12-15% for the overall project, 11-14% forfarm forestry, and 16% for SRSFM.
4.4.1   Return on equity to private nursery farmers: One of the key activities that the project
promoted was the establishment of private nurseries. Under the project, 779 such nurseries were
established that produced about 272 million seedlings of different tree species. The return on equity
(ROE) of these nurseries has been estimated at 17.1%. However, it cannot be compared with an
estimate in retrospect because no such estimate was made at appraisal of the project. Although nursery
farmers' ROE appears to be attractive, it disguises a large set of variations, such as localized nature of
nursery business, fluctuating demand pattem of seedlings, or restricted access to institutional and larger
buyers. Because of these variations and dwindling technical support that was available free and
aggressively from the govemment during the Project, the ROE in many a cases would decrease unless
those nursery operators scale up their business, diversify the products (seedlings), and become more
sensitive to changing demand patterns.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest. The project has contributed in
improving the government's capacity to use its human and financial resources, in the following way:
4.5.1. In the PFD, the project contributed to the setting up of a farm forestry organization, strengthening
-10-



of farm forestry research at PFRI, and strengthening the M&E unit. This set up, which created a
separate setting for farm forestry, improved the focus on these activities and therefore directly
contributed to their successful implementation. At the same time, one aspect of the new set up relating
to account keeping was not so successful. The project helped establish Personal Ledger Accounts
(PLAs) for all officers of the level of DFO and above, but this did not function satisfactorily because of
too many layers that obstructed the flow of funds. There was consensus in PFD that the prevalent
accounting system, which entailed post-audit of the accounts, would have worked much better than the
system of PLAs introduced under the project. It was, therefore, assessed that had the farm forestry set
up operated on the prevalent accounting system, it would have enabled the PFD to make further efficient
use of financial resources.
4.5.2. In the PFRI, the performance of research was improved by the provision of laboratory
equipment, technical assistance, and the establishment of the seed supply system. The tissue culture
laboratory, after its success with Ipil Ipil, was now set on making new breakthroughs (miniature plants of
several other tree species were being regenerated in vitro). Technical assistance particularly contributed
in the shape of a series of agro-forestry publications and the setting up of the seed supply system. The
introduction of certified seed use by the departmental and private sector nurseries helped in improving
the quality of planting material. It will ultimately have a good impact on the tree crops established either
on farmlands or in state lands. The PFRI is now better equipped to carry out adaptive research and run
short-term training courses provided, of course, the govemment would continue meeting its operational
funding needs.
4.5.3. In the M&E unit, however, results were poor. Strengthening of M&E unit did not produce the
desired results, the reasons being that full contingent of professional staff was not recruited and there
was an apathy from field fomnations in accepting and using the MIS software developed under the
project. The field formations did not enthusiastically cooperate in providing information and feedback.
The higher authorities too did not assert in favor of the M&E unit. This was due to the fact that the M&E
unit acted from outside the Project Directorate (as its mandate was to service the entire department), and
the horizontal coordination between the various wings of the same department seldom works. This
arrangement did not facilitate smooth functioning of the M&E system. While there was no prescribed
design for the M&E system at the inception stage of the project, an M&E system was to be designed as
the project began and then implemented. The designing part was done in consultation with all tiers of
PFD, but the snag came in implementation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  An extended drought over the last couple of years affected the outcome of the project in many
ways. In the rainfed Pothwar and Thai regions, tree plantations established under the project will not
achieve expected results. It may result in reduced biomass production by about 10%, or greater
replanting cost to PFD if seedlings mortality rate increases from a normal 15% to 25% or higher, in case
the rainfall pattem does not return to a wetter cycle. Again due to drought, reduced water supplies in the
canal systems had resulted in larger cuts in water supply to PFD's low priority irrigated plantations (where
planting targets were reduced by 20%) compared to agricultural lands, causing reduced tree growth. Low
water supplies also led to abandoning of certain experiments at PFRI's irrigated lands. Outcomes
affected by such major factors, and in this case outside the control of govemment, could not have been
quantified because these factors constituted natural phenomena whose overall impact would be known
over a longer period of time in the post-project phase.
5.1.2 A natural die-back shisham disease, whose probable causes were identified by the PFRI
scientists as a root fungus and edaphic factors particularly associated with stressful ground water
conditions, resulted in the death of a large number of trees. It caused a glut like situation in the market
because of the culled Umber. While no authentic survey was available to know the extent of damage,
this disease was cited by foresters, farmers and timber dealers as the main reason for low prices of
average quality shisham Umber. It resulted in reduced incomes. Farmers were now hesitating to plant
shisham on their farms because of the die-back disease. Another factor beyond PFD's reach was that at
-11 -



the start of the project, a private sector firm intended to establish a pulp mill thus inducing farmers to
plant eucalyptus trees on a larger scale (mostly in the central zone). Unfortunately, the pulp mill never
materialized. The farmers were compelled to sell their produce at cheaper prices as fuelwood or as
chipping material to the particle board plants. These factors partially affected the outcome of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were a few factors that were within the control of the Govemment where improvements could
have resulted in the project outcome/output to be still better. These included: rapid tum over of staff in
key positions (11 persons manned the position of Project Director at different times), late recruitment of
consultants causing delays in carrying out the HRD study and rehabilitation of the irrigated timber
plantations study, ban on foreign training, delayed release of counterpart Rupee funds, and delayed
approval of PFRI's five-year research plan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Areas where improvements from the implementing agency could have been done were: (a) disruption in
the flow of funds disrupted field works. One of the reasons of this predicament was attributed to the lack
of continuity of the Project Director who had to secure timely release of budget funds from the
govemment and seek reimbursements from IDA in a timely manner too. Another reason was the
problems in using the PLAs as compared to the normal method prevalent in the PFD where post-audit of
cheques is permitted under the rules; (b) marketng information, as a departmental function, was
under-emphasized by not contracting out formulation of a marketing intelligence system to a private firm
as envisaged in the project. As a result, farmers suffered in several pockets of the province of wood's
oversupply that depressed prices; and (c) consuftants' reports were not systematically reviewed.
Therefore findings and recommendations of consultants' reports did not always trickle down to all users.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project expenditure, as of December 31, 2001, was Rs. 822.7 million, or about US$17.61
million equivalent against the appraisal cost estimate of Rs. 1,224.6 million or US$33.75 million. The
utlization of funds, in local currency, was 69% of the estimate revised at MTR (Rs 1,200 million). It
should have been 85% had the irrigation systems rehabilitation of plantations went ahead. Following
MTR, SDR 4 million were cancelled from the Credit amount due mainly to exchange rate fluctuations as
Rupee fell by 100% in five years against US$. There was also minor restructuring of the project
components as foreign training was not being utilized. Another SDR 1.6 million were cancelled during
the final project year due to implementation shortfalls in the irrigated plantations. Procurement planning
was satisfactory. The procurement actions took off satisfactorily in most cases (documentation
preparation, tenders, bid evaluation, awards) although delays were encountered in consultants
recruitment. This particular action was not due to process constraint but was more of an implementation
issue because of multiple complaints and counter complaints from the bidding firms. Disbursement
schedules showed lags, at times, but were corrected promptly and formally revised as the need arose.
Allocation of the Credit proceeds in the disbursement categories was adequate and adjustments were
made timely when partial cancellation of the Credit amounts were effected. The Bank's procurement and
disbursement guidelines were generally followed. No serious deviations were observed in these fiduciary
areas. Final disbursement was 90% of the Credit amount As of April 30, 2002, SDR 9.41 million (US$
12.81 equivalent) were disbursed from a total Credit amount of SDR 10. 4 million (net of cancellations),
and the balance SDR 0.99 million were cancelled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.1.1 Rating: Likely. The success of the social range/scrub forest management and farm forestry
components of the project, which entailed working in concert with local communities, would go a long
way in sustaining key project achievements. The community organizaUons set up around state forests
would always demand, and PFD would be encouraged to provide, a role in grazing management of state
lands as indicated by the positive experiences of COs. The private nursery operators would, in the
future, serve as linchpins between PFD and farmers. PFD's intention to entrust extension work to the
- 12 -



newly formed district govemments, which are closer to communities, would further help in ensuring the
sustainability of project achievements. Awareness of farmers about advantages of farm forestry had
been heightened by the project. They have better and easy access now to PFD for meeting their needs
on technical issues, such as raising quality seedlings, improving nursery management practices, or any
other. The concepts of joint forest management and participatory approach has also been enshrined in
the province's new forest policy that was approved by the Punjab Cabinet. Accordingly, the interests of
local communities and farmers, which include the sustainability of project achievements, would be better
served in the future. The presence of NRSP supported COs in the Thal and Pothwar, who were
concemed with animal grazing, would also produce a stabilizing effect in PFD-COs relationship. In short,
these positive signals would encourage the Govemment to progressively share greater responsibility with
local communities in improving the management of pastures and scrub forests. Furthermore, various
components have been handed over to relevant sections in the PFD who have adequate accounting staff
and operafing budgets. Therefore, sustainability issues are unlikely to arise for maintenance acfivities.
6.1.2 The PFD was explained, at the time of ICR mission, the rationale of preparing a sustainability
plan that would facilitate consolidation of project gains in the short and medium term. If PFD follows
through with commitment to continue eliminating subsidy on tree seedlings in all forms, it will further
facilitate creating a level playing field for nursery operators. While subsidy to private nurseries has been
eliminated, free seedlings to other government departments are supplied at times and there are still
remaining PFD nurseries. Nonetheless, PFD intends to gradually evolve mechanisms through which
demands of other line agencies can be met (by training them to raise their nurseries or encouraging them
to buy seedlings from the market at full cost) without creating any distortion in the market by charging full
cost of seedlings if supplied from govemment nurseries. It also intends to systematically close its
nurseries without causing sudden disruption in meeting the seedling requirements of the state forests.
Another measure to sustain private nursery operations is evident from PFRI's plans to carry on with its
training programs for farmers and nursery operators and induct private sector for seed distribution. For
sustaining the range/scrub forest joint management activities, NRSP agreed to take over 42 (of the 106)
COs established under the project because these COs are located within its area of operation. These
ongoing and future expected actions will ensure the sustainability of project achievements.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The PFD prepared and submitted to GOPunjab schedules of new expenditures (SNE') for obtaining
funds for the maintenance of project achievements during the last six mnonths of current fiscal year
(FY02) and for the next fiscal year. It has also devolved extension activities to district govemments and
is collaborating with NRSP for keeping liaison with community organizations. NRSP had agreed to
expand its natural resource management (NRM) training menu on the basis of lessons leamt in the Thal
and Pothwar, thus ensuring an enduring relationship with PFD in the province's rangeland and scrub
forest areas. The PFD also has detailed designs and cost estimates, prepared by NESPAK with project
funds, for improving the irrigation systems of three irrigated timber plantations. The Government intends
to make good use of this preparatory work (it informed the ICR mission) by carrying out the irrigation
improvement works for the timber plantations by allocating funds in the coming years' budget funds.
a. SNE Is a government review mechanrtm lhrough which essential transition adfifes are sceened to provide budget funda
6.2.1 The incremental M&E staff provided to strengthen the M&E Cell has been withdrawn, after the
project was closed, due to anticipated reduction in the workload. The original staff of the M&E Cell,
created in the 1980s, however, is being retained.
6.2.2   The follow up transitional arrangements, with implementation responsibilities and dates, are
given below:
Needed Actons          Aciion Already Taken     By whom     By when
Re-deployment of staff  MAi extension staff at the disposal of  PFD  8/2001
district govt. (DGov).
Link should be established between  CF (Ext)  1/2002
GOPunjab and DGov.
Funds for the period until  SNE for Rs 13.5 m. submited to P&D  PFD  1/2002
6/30/2002             jwas not approved. A revised SNE for
- 13 -



Rs 9.8 m. was resubmitted, eliminating  P&D   3/2002
the staff content (it too was turned
down).
Maintenance funds for next SNE for maintenance funds is   PFD        4/2002
three years            processed every year by the Finance  FD        and
Dept. All CCFs will place demands as        every year
required.
Dissemination of studies'  Publicity Division will obtain materials  PFRI  12/2001
results                from researchers, DFOs, DGovs and  Pub Div     and
publislVdisseminate through various  (Ext Cir)  on-going
media
Establishment of Marketing  A skeleton "marketing division" exists (a PFD/Dir Mktg  12/2002
Division               Director Marketing is in posibon).             and
Marketing information system is being          thd
established. Training will be arranged.
A new PC-1 will be prepared soon.
Instructions for continuous  Instructions already issued before  Dir PFRI  1212001 and
use of certified seed  project closed. Reminders, refresher  All CFs  on-going
courses and awareness campaigns will
be launched every year
NRSP's follow up of COs  NRSP is already managing 30 COs.  PFD/CF    6/2002
Arrangements to hand over remaining  (Range) and
12 COs will be finalized with NRSP.  CF (Rwp)
Rehabilitaton of irrigation  PC-I is under preparation.   PFD        7/2002
systems in timber      GOPunjab will be requested by PFD
plantations (design &  to provide funds in the FY2002/03
estimates prepared under  budget
the project)           I_I_                                              _
6.2.3 The PFD was undecided at the time of Project closing whether to prepare a follow on project or
not although project preparation facility was available through the technical assistance. There was
considerable uncertainty on the impact of devolution (to the district governments) on the staffing levels
and reporting lines of authority. For consolidating the gains made under the project, or to expand upon
those areas where priorities emerge in the near future, GOPunjab contemplates to finance small projects
through its own resources. No follow operation from the Bank is envisaged.
6.2.4 Recommendation for OED's Evaluation. The ideal time for an OED evaluation should be
during the spring or late summer of a given year. The evaluation should be done as early as convenient.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project emanated from the Forest Sector Master Plan and was also in consonance with the
provisions of the National Conservation Strategy. The preparation was carried out by a team of
consultants, and the PFD staff. A down side, however, was the lack of wider consultations with all
stakeholders. Furthermore, fiduciary requirements on the financial management capacity were not
appraised in depth since the project was appraised prior to the induction of the FMSs and the Bank's
focus on these issues. The PFD and Bank's Islamabad Office worked in conjunction throughout the
lending process with the result that the project became effective within a short period of 65 days after the
signing of legal agreements. The Bank placed due emphasis, during project preparation, on promoting
community participation practices. The performance of the Bank during preparation, appraisal and
subsequent processing of the project was rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in carrying out supervision was assessed as satisfactory.
7.2.1  The Bank maintained close liaison with the project authorities throughout the project period.
- 14 -



Telephonic consultations and quickly arranged meetings resolved many issues. The Bank fielded
supervision missions on a regular basis and the expertise represented on missions was need based. The
missions' terms of reference and timings were agreed upon with implementing agencies, which allowed
sufficient time to be spent in the field for assessing project performance. The missions discussed their
findings in wrap up meetings with the project agencies and agreed on solutions to address issues, and
the Bank actively followed up on agreed solutions until they were adequately implemented. The
missions also discussed and agreed on performance ratings with project authorities and GOPunjab. This
close collaboration helped improve project performance which had, for a time, been categorized as a
project at risk.
7.2.2  The community participation concepts were initially slow to put into practice by the project staff.
The Bank catalyzed, successfully, translating the concepts of joint forest management into practices
through dialogue with the govemment, extensive discussions with other key stakeholders, and by
promoting innovative solutions when faced with issues. For example, NRSP was contracted by the PFD
to provide on the job training on community mobilization methods to foresters as a result of persistent
follow up from the Bank. NRSP not only provided such a training but also made on-site demonstrations
by acting as a role model on how to raise community awareness. A substitution in the consultants team
was promptly agreed to be the Bank in order for the project to avail the services of an experienced local
expert in community development who championed the cause of community participation in managing
the rangelands and scrub forests.
7.2.3  Although no safeguards were detailed at appraisal, the Bank and the project staff ensured that
the project was not out of compliance, particularly for those safeguards where there could have been an
unclear understanding, such as involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30) and indigenous people (OD 4.20),
forestry (4.36), natural habitat(4.04) in the case of irrigated plantations, rangelands, and scrub forests.
For example, irrigated plantations study indicated a few settlements within major plantations. While no
resettlement issues were identified in the study, implication of Bank's safeguard policies were discussed
with the project staff and consultant team. Similarly, provisions and implications of Pest Management
(4.09) in the case of farm forestry, research and extension were clarified to all concemed by the Bank
missions. There were no significant deviation from Bank's financial management policies (OP/BP 10.02)
except that financial statements were not submitted as per Bank's requirements during the first three
years, and there were some reporting discrepancies in the use of statements of expenditures while
claiming reimbursements from the Bank. An action plan to address both these deficiencies was prepared
and fully implemented. As a result, improvements were effected in the financial management of the
project. The Bank was expeditious in canceling funds throughout the project life. SDR 4.0 million
cancelled following the MTR and SDR 1.6 million cancelled later (year 5 of implementation), in response
to changes in implementation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. Lessons leamt from prior Bank operations were
usefully applied in all phases of project processing and implementation. The Bank always exercised due
diligence and promptly responded to the project agencies' requests. Informal and impromptu meetings
between the Bank and project staff also helped in facilitating project implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower and the Bank collaborated well in the preparation stage. PFD's officials up to the highest
level (Secretary to Govemment) were easily accessible to the project preparation team that greatly
facilitated its work. GOPunjab provided the necessary support to the Bank during all phases of
preparation, including project preparation, appraisal and negotiations. GOPunjab also approved its
project document expeditiously and ensured that the Bank's SAR and the Borrower's PC-1 were
generally consistent with one another. The Borrower's preparation performance was rated as
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall implementation performance of the Govemment was satisfactory. Although there were some
- 15 -



shortfalls in project implementation, as explained in section 5.3, the satisfactory rating is primarily based
on govemment's commitment to important policy changes which led to shift the emphasis on farm
nursery from the public to the private sector. These policy measures have changed the role/function of
the PFD to a more service delivery one, and therefore, have had positive impacts in the livelihood
situation of the rural poor of Punjab. The most relevant reforms include (i) the removal of govemment
subsidy on tree seedlings which provided a favorable climate for private nursery operators, and (ii) the
abolishment of taxes and other charges on movement of wood, which facilitated the marketing of wood
by farmers. Apart from these policy changes, there were other positive aspects of implementaffon. The
project was provided with the required staff timely. The level of staff availability remained high
throughout the project period, although in the case of Project Director (PD), the average tenure of an
incumbent was about six month. Whereas it cannot escape notice that the PDs rotated rapidly, there
were at least three tenures of sufficiently long duration (over a year) which did not allow the tempo of
activities to slacken. Monitoring and evaluation was not up to the mark but it did deliver in that it
produced comprehensive annual reports and provided the Bank missions with the needed informaton.
PLAs for all key officers were allowed to be opened promptly by the Finance Department. It was
considered a positive move by the government although, in retrospect, PLAs did not prove to be of much
help to the implementing agency. Audit reports were a mix of unqualified and qualified but were
generally received on time. The auditors mostly did not comment on intemal controls. There were no
serious audit issues and the implementing agency replied to auditors' observations. The hiring of project
consultants was although delayed, several consultants played a critical role in the project
implementation. For instance, the community development experts and NRSP were seen as catalysts
for improving the implementation of social range/scrub forest management component.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory. The agency included the Project
Director (PD) who had direct control over the farm forestry component, and the various functionaries of
the PFD who were outside the direct control of the PD but were responsible for other project
components. The Director PFRI was responsible for the forestry research, Conservator of Forests (CF)
for Range Management and CF Rawalpindi Region were jointly responsible for the social range/scrub
forest management components, and the circle CFs and Divisional Forest Officers as in-charge officers
of their respective forest circles and divisions were responsible for implementing the irrigated timber
plantations component. Despite different lines of control, the implementing agency generally ensured
that the staff rotation was minimal (with the exception of PD). Greenmen, the frontline workers, were
generally not rotated which was desirable and it greatly contributed to the success of the farm forestry
component. Procurement of vehicles and equipment and construction of buildings was canried out on
time. The accounts in respect of expenditure incurred were generally well maintained barring some
instances of deficiency that were subsequently rectified. Financial management was initially weak but
improved with inputs from the Bank staff and efforts made by the project accounting staff. Some field
staff did not pay prompt aKtention to intemal and extemal auditors' observations.
7.6.2  New ventures, such as the establishment of tree seed supply system, tissue culture laboratory,
and self-sustaining community organizations, were generally successfully implemented by the
implementing agency. Given the demands of the project (seasonality and climate based sensitivity of
forestry operations) and intra departmental differences, the implementing agency did well in maintaining
a tempo for increasing the number of private nurseries, the number of seedlings planted on farmlands
(272 million) was closely monitored, the certified tree seed was introduced for the first time, and all
quantitative targets for the rangeland and scrub forest component were met under testing times.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(a)    Given a level playing field, private entrepreneurs compete successfully with public sector
organizations, and a suitable incentive framework does pay off. Removal of subsidy on tree seedlings
- 16 -



resulted in the emergence, at one point of time, of over 1,000 small private nursery operators who
produced about 272 million seedlings during the project period. A sizeable number (779 at project
closing) of nursery operators survived and were expected to remain in business, provided subsidy was
not re-introduced. Nursery raising is a profitable business (see para 4.4.2) and mosty smallholders and
the landless ventured into it. The project thus contributed, in a small measure, to poverty alleviation as it
provided employment to such households. It also helped in reducing the gap between supply and
demand of wood (Annex 3, para 3.1).
(b)   NGOs' role in social mobilization needs to be built into the project design. Social mobilization is
a specialized work that cannot be carried out by foresters (even after hands on training) whose primary
responsibilities are totally different. Such work is best carried out by NGOs who possess the requisite
skills. NRSP demonstrated it in the Thal and Pothwar areas where it succeeded in mobilizing the
communities impacting on the rangelands and scrub forests under the Social Range/Scrub Forest
component. This was an innovative effort undertaken during implementation.
(c)   The involvement of the community based organizations has proven to be a successful
mechanism to ensure sustainability of forest interventions. The main lessons for the involvement of COs
are: (i) they have a good potential to operate and work in Punjab; (ii) they can prove to be a better route
for improving service delivery in the natural resource management sector; (iii) planning and forming of
COs should be done in collaboration with a credible NGO and should be an integral part of the project
design; and (iv) representativeness of COs should be as broad based as possible (willing participation
from the landless, or separate women groups organized under the project prove this point) in order to
ensure more equity and benefit sharing.
(d)   Attitudinal change in govemment functionaries does come about with repetitive interaction with
stakeholders. An attitudinal change in forest officers was noticed following extensive and repeated
interaction with villagers, particularly farmers and private tree nursery operators, in the shape of seasonal
tree planting campaigns, seminars, training workshops, discussion meetings, cause-a-walks, etc. The
police like behavior of forest officers was seen to be weakening as reported by communities (visitors,
NRSP staff, PERI's evaluation report also support this point). Reorientation efforts introduced by the
project contributed to this attitudinal change.
(e)   Project design should be kept simple and limited to achievable outcomes, even for broad
objectives such as the improvement of the forestry sector as a whole. The design of the project was clear
enough to address the primary sub-sectors only, namely, farm forestry and range/scrub forests. Other
sub-sectors, such as riverine and canal side plantations were left out in order to keep implementation
simple. Since the policy and legal support for innovations, such as the newly introduced private nursery
operators, establishing and motivating community organizations in joint forest management, were
challenging tasks, there was a clear merit in keeping the design simple. Inclusion of left out sub-sectors
would have diluted the focus on innovabons on the one hand, and constrained implementation capacity
of the PFD on the other, and hence, it may have shown an adverse impact on the development outcome.
(0    Required adjustments in implementation arrangements need to be addressed promptly during
implementation, as they affect the pace of the implementation phase. Continuity of project directors and
quality of key staff, particularly for those disciplines which require strengthening, should be included as
part of covenanted agreements to build the appropriate commitment from government to keep
implementation smoothly running. It includes, inter alia,ensuring timely decision making and effective
monitoring and evaluation.
(g)    Timely recruitment of technical assistance, where needed, needs to be ensured to avoid any
delay in project implementation. The project consultants came on board about a year after project
approval although the procurement process commenced well in time. As a result, a few project activities
particularly in the social range/scrub forest and irrigated timber plantations components where
consultants were needed to initiate an activity or two, had a delayed start. Procurement assurances
need to be incorporated into project documents during preparation to ensure that all steps for procuring
- 17 -



critical consultancies are completed before the project implementation commences.
(h)   Lack of appropriate training hindered capacity development in forestry research. The project
provided numerous foreign and local training facilities for staff. Except for the local short-term training
for which targets were exceeded, the others were not utilized for austerty measures. Many project
activities could have done better, but more importantly, institutional capacity of forestry research could
have been further improved to serve better in the future. Tissue culture research, for example, would
continue to be constrained due to the lack of expertise which could have been acquired had the foreign
training for this discipline provided for in the project been availed. Activities under the social rangeiscrub
forest component would also have fared stil better if training in community development was utilized.
(i)   Assessment of the financial management capacity of the implementing agency needs to made at
appraisal. Financial management and reporting could have been much better if an assessment of the
financial management capacity was done at the time of appraisal, and project's financial management
staff was informed about Bank's financial management requirements. At the time of appraisal, the
Bank's financial management staff should help the project to develop Chart of Accounts in a manner that
would enable the accounting system to produce Umely reports on performance indicators and project
management. Such reports should be easily understood and "bought into" by the govemment staff.
a) Personal LedgerAccounts (PLAs) were found to be unsuitable for PFD. The PFD uses a
time-tested accounting system that is subject to post audit. A number of PLAs were opened quite
promptly indeed under the project, expecting that flow of funds would be facilitated (past lessons from
other projects indicated problems with flow of funds). Unfortunately, the expected did not happen. All
checks issued for utilizing PLA funds were subjected to pre-audit at many stages causing severe delays
in transfer of funds to lower formations. Introducing a new system in parallel with a time tested system
should be given a careful consideration at project design.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CONSERVATOR OF FORESTSIEX-FFICIO PROJECT DIRECTOR PUNJAB
FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, 108- Ravi Road, Lahore
Phone: 042-7730532: Fax No. 7730534
To
The Secretary,
Government of the Punjab,
Forestry, Wildlife, Fisheries &
Tourism Department, Lahore.
No.          33aJCCFlPD         Dated Lahore, the   25-04-2002.
SUBJECT:     PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IPFSDPI (Cr:2747-PAKI
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - (ICR) - COMMENTS
THEREOF
Reference:   Government letter No.SO(P&D)9-19/92(P-III) dated 16-04-2002.
The Punjab Forest Sector Development Project (PFSDP) was first of its kind wherein
various components were dealt with in order to strengthen the forestry sector in the province of Punjab.
As envisaged in the draft ICR, the Punjab Forest Department gained a lot from the implementation of
PFSD Project and various new dimensions were explored by the World Bank investment.
The Project has been rated in the ICR as satisfactory, farm forestry component being
highly satisfactory. As indicated in the report, there were some shortcomings in respect of irrigated
timber plantations on account of time constraints and non-adherence of schedule fixed in the PC-I. As far
as the irrigated plantations are concemed a good work has been accomplished by having the designs
-18-



and estimates prepared for rehabilitation of irrigation system in six selected irrigated plantations namely;
Changa Manga, Lal Sohanra, Khanewal, Shortkot, Fatehmajor and Kundian besides improvement of
growing stock in the shape of afforestation over an area of 5393 acres.
The comments by the undersigned aims at taking a stock of the successes achieved
through the implementation of the project and also to enunciate a future strategy for sustainability of the
achievements. Component-wise comments are as under:
A.     Farm Forestry Extension
Farm forestry has been a very well known concept in the Punjab. The scarcity of wood in this
part of sub-continent was realized with the creation of Pakistan and farm tree culture was
introduced. With the implementation of a number of development projects including the PFSD
Project, the per acre tree density on farm lands has been raised to 18.87. The farm forestry in
the Punjab has reached a saturation point and failures in respect of establishment of a marketing
system for the farm tree produce, the PFD will have to face difficulty to sell the idea for the
furtherance of farm forestry in future. The Department thus have to review its present policy and
tree farming should only be advocated on poor soils. There is a dire need for establishment of
marketing information system to help the tree farmers for disposal of their farm tree produce at a
reasonable price.
The kissan nurseries established under the Project experienced a set back upto the close of the
Project on account of lack of follow up programme. The activity of farm forestry has been
entrusted to District Govemments in the changed scenario but on account of poor functioning by
the District Governments the units of forestry sector created in the District Govemment has not
been able to function properly. There is a need to create linkage between the provincial set up
and the District Govemments through CF Extension, Lahore and Director, PFRI, Faisalabad for
furtherance of kissan nurseries.
B.    Farm Forestry Research
With the Project investment a good work in the shape of Rapid Rural Appraisal, Tissue Culture
Laboratory and Seed Centre has come to in existence. Creation of linkage between the research
and extension worker i.e. District Govemment Forestry Unit is the most appropriate step. The
results of the research at PFRI will have to be conveyed to District Governments for the
promotion of healthy farm forestry practices in the province. The staff in the District
Governments lacks proper guidance and as such as an institution, there function has not become
appreciable. It is, therefore, required that training, workshops etc be arranged for District
Govemment staff to make them familiarize with the latest technology. Seed Centres established
and plus trees marked in the province need to be further strengthened for propagation of a
healthy progeny. The forestry staff working in the District Govemments should also be trained in
identfication of plus trees in their areas. Legislation will also have to be taken up for the use of
certified seed in order to have a disease free crop in the province. The District Govemments are
very close to the communities and the target population hence formation of village afforestation
committees in the jurisdiction of all the District Govemments will prove an appropriate step for
the farm forestry.
- 19 -



C.    Social Range and Scrub Forest Management
With the Project intervention a new idea of range and scrub forest management through
community organizations was floated. After the close of the Project, the follow up programme
has not been taken up eamestly. The result is that the community organizations established
under the above said programme has become dysfunctional. The Punjab Forest Department will
have to take the help of District Governments for a scientific management of range and scrub
areas. These forests are mostly situated in the rain-fed areas and marginal areas. These areas
requires a good management for their sustainability rather than investments. The communities
are thus required to be involved in the process of planning and management. The colossal loss
to the scrub and range areas on account of heavy pressure of grazing can only be saved by
involving the public representatives in the District Govemments.
As a future strategy for the management of these areas the investments may be stopped as the
afforestation and pasture development works etc are wholly dependent on the receipt of rains
which is not an ensured activity. The investments made are wasted on account of long drought
and gestation period of the species raised in the area. With the active participation of District
Govemments, division of areas for rearing of livestock and for watershed management may be
made so that the two conflicting activities are not accomplished in the same area.
D.    Irrigated Timber Plantations
The irrigated plantations of the Punjab have a great potential. Their yield can be increased to an
optimal level by making investments for rehabilitation of irrigation system. It is more so when the
scarcity of water is being experienced. For proper management of the irrigation supply, it is
proposed that a PC-I be prepared and implemented for execution of works like rehabilitation of
irrigation system. The designs and estimates are existing with the Department which have been
prepared by Consulting Firm (NESPAK). The involvement of corporate sector for making
investments in the irrigated plantations may create an environment where private investments in
forestry sector will be ensured. The Department has been floating this idea since long but nothing
has been achieved on ground. An immediate move in this direction is suggested. It is also
proposed that management of irrigated plantations should not be allowed without a proper
resource management plan. In this connection reference is invited to management plans
prepared by the consultants through project investments. The recommendations and
prescriptions of these management plans may be implemented in letter and spirit.
E.    Institutional Support
Although a break through was expected in the organizational set up and HRD of the PFD through
Project interventions, unfortunately the target has not been achieved on account of non-availing
of foreign training. In the post project scenario, it is desired that a PC-I is implemented for getting
the Forest Officers trained in the country in the disciplines of marketing, economics and water
management. With the close of Project, the training programme at PFRI has come to stand still.
The institutions at Ghoragali and Bahawalpur have been made dysfunctional since long. It is
proposed that training programme be arranged in these institutions for forest personnel, nursery
growers, tree farmers, NGOs and women folk.
The importance of monitoring and evaluation in this era cannot be denied. For an efficient
organization, a good monitory and evaluation system is a pre-requisite. The Project investments
have not been able to strengthen M&E to a desired level. The reasons for this failure have been
enumerated in the ICR. In the post-project period, it is proposed that existing M&E Cell be
strengthened by provision of expertise like Statisticians, Computer Analyst and Economist etc.
As a first step a DFO may be posted as a Conservator of Forests with only two SDFOs cannot
deliver the goods. Further, the computer based Management Information System conceived
through consultancy may be made functional for establishment of data bank.
Finally, it is added that PFSD Project has opened many horizons for the improvement of forestry
- 20 -



in the province of Punjab. With the Project interventions, the institutions which were
non-existence in the past have established. In its actuality the Project has proved to be a trend
setter. As regards, the economic rate of return and financial returns duly calculated by a Project
consultant in the World Bank, the achievements in the farm forestry sector are alone enough to
justify the project investments.
[Signed]
(CH. FAQIR AHMAD)
CHEF CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS/EX-OFFICIO PROJECT
DIRECTOR
PFSDP, LAHORE
No.    339/CCF/PFD  Dated Lahore, the    25-04-2002.
Copy is forwarded to Mr. Rashed ul Qayyum, Senior Agriculture Specialist & Task/Team Leader,
PFSDP, the World Bank, Islamabad for information and necessary action with reference to his letter
dated 4th April, 2002.
[Signed]
CHIEF CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS/EX-OFFICIO PROJECT
DIRECTOR
PFSDP, LAHORE
(1) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Expansion of farm forestry to broaden wood                                (1) Enabling conditions for promotng farm
base                                                                      forestry were created by government's:
Adddional trees (cumulative), planted by                                  (a) removing subsidy on tree seedings earlier
farmers and produced in the private                                       than envisaged,
nurseries, in millions                                                    (b) abolishing taxes on movement; and
(c) Cabinets approval of a new forest policy
encouraging collaboration between private
and public sectors.
(2) A large nurmber of private nurseries were
estabbished which sold about 272 rrillion
trees to farmers These nurseries were
supported by an Integrated farn forestry
extension network. The Projed inlroduced
technical services which were backed up by
an effectve mass awareness program
(3) The number of plants being raised at
private farmns amount to 150,000 ha
equivalent of area planted If properly
managed an 5 year rotation, It would start
yielding, on a sustained basis, about 1 5
million cubic meters of wood and an
incremental income of Rs 500 million.
Rehablitation of scrub forests and   100                                  106 Community Organizabons (COs) were
rangelands by involving communities in                                    formed, demonstrating afforestation (about
management (No. of COs formed)                                             14,000 ha) and pasture development
activities (about 10,000 ha) on the state lands
on which these communities also thrive to
meet their forage needs. A participatory
mode was developed for efficient
management of these natural resources.
Irrigated plantations under improved  Instead of rehabiitating of 3 plantations fully  6 (afforestation only). Inventories, baseline
management with environmental conservabon (forestry works and irigation systems  studies, and management plans were
(No. of plantations rehabiitated)    improvement), 6 plantations are being  prepared for 3 imgated plantatons, and
attenpted with afforestation only.   designs for rehabilitating the irrigation
systems were prepared. Afforestation was
canied out over 2,180 ha. in 6 plantatons.
However, the work of pivotal Importance (
improvement of inigalion systems) was not
carried out The planations thus were not
properly rehabilitated. The newly planted
area of the plantations. if property looked
after, would start yielding from the ff(th year
onward abaut 20,000 oubic ml of
wood and an income of about Rs.7 rmilion
annually cn a sustained basis.
Strengthening of local public and community                               IrImpact of the following strengthening
institutions                                                               measures taken during the project
implementation will be substantial over a
period of time on the outcomes:
1 A new forest policy was announced
which encouraged private/public sector
collaboration.
2 PFD and PFRI were institutionally
strengthened (HRD, improved management.
better equipment, and technical support)
3. In Pothwar and Thai, COs were
established and their members were given
skills training.
-22 -



Output Indicators:
-       '-               :   i                                   r                            lr    . :  *F O ;_.-  .  -   ,"-  \'4
,-     ,ImidfeatoiMatrlx    ,.   -          Projected In last PSR           ,,'-.~  Atu,.. hatLLatest Esimate, ,,t
Farner nurseries established (No.)    1035                                  779 (at one stage, the number hovered
around 1000 nurseries)
Government nurseries (No) indicating  0                                      174
closure of 700 nurseies in phases
Trees planted by fanrers (million4year -  57                                 54 (average over 5 years, wfth a tota of 272
[plants sold by private nurseries]                                           million seediings planted by farmers)
Community organizatons fanmed (No.)   100                                    106
Community organizations under Intensive  40                                 56, of which [42] were screened for
supervision (No.) - [introduced at MTR]                                     sustainability at project completion.
Afforestation In scrub forests and rangebnds 13360                           13489
(area in ha.)
Imprved pastures in untreated public lands  9900                             9960
(area in ha.)
Water ponds, or TOBAS', devebped (No)  40                                    41
Rehablitate 3 selected imgated plantatons  3 plantatIons rehablitated       6 plantations par0ally rehabililated (foresby
on a pilot basis                                                             part onty)
Identfy tree species most suited to the
prevalent farming systems and local sol
condiUons:                            (i) 4                                  (D 5
(1) No. of major species availed for Farm
Forestry.                             (ti) 106                              (I 106
(tl) No. of Tehsdi based soil maps (oorrelating
soil types with suitable
tree species) prepared
End of project
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actuall-atest  Percentage of
Estimate"    Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Support                              2.19           1.00           46
Farm Forestry                                     21.95          12.77           58
Social Range and Scrub Forest Management           3.52          2.97            84
Irrigated Timber Plantations                       2.88          0.87            30
Total Baseline Cost                               30.54          17.61
Physical Contingencies                            1.94
Price Contingencies                               1.27
Total Project Costs           33.75          17.61
Total Financing Required            33.75         17.61   1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expe anditure .C1> oy    i,    ,'. iCB  1sProcurement Method,
pendIt6re,4te ~~NC                     Otei2N.B.F             Total- Cost
1. Works                    0.00         3.75         0.95         0.00        4.70
(0.00)       (3.10)      (0.85)       (0.00)       (3.95)
2. Goods                    5.86         0.31         0.26         0.00        6.43
(2.72)       (0.26)      (0.20)       (0.00)       (3.18)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         11.51        0.00       11.51
TA, Training & Studies     (0.00)        (0.00)      (11.08)      (0.00)      (11.08)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         11.11        0.00        11.11
Incremental staff &
operating costs
(0.00)       (0.00)      (6.66)       (0.00)       (6.66)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
.__________________  (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     5.86         4.06        23.83        0.00        33.75
(2.72)       (3.36)      (18.79)       (0.00)     (24.87)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuremnent Method'
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB        Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.56         2.79        0.00        3.35
(0.00)       (0.48)      (2.35)       (0.00)      (2.83)
2. Goods                    3.37         0.56         0.20        0.00        4.13
(2.32)       (0.34)      (0.15)       (0.00)      (2.81)
-24 -



3. Services                     0.00           0.00          3.68          0.00          3.68
TA, Training & Studies         (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.66)        (0.00)        (3.66)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          6.45          0.00          6.45
Incremental staff &
operating costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.51)        (0.00)        (3.51)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous-               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        3.37           1.12          13.12         0.00          17.61
(2.32)         (0.82)        (9.67)        (0.00)       (12.81)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fimds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
.I- ,-- -  .  }  .             Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
.D ...    Govt      CoF.      IDA       Govt.     CoF.    FIDAt  Ga,i   CoF.
Institutional Support    1.87      0.48      0.00      0.82      0.18      0.00    43.9    37.5   0.0
Farm Forestry            16.65     7.29      0.00      8.72      4.05      0.00     52.4   55.6   0.0
Social Range and Scrub   3.43      0.69      0.00      2.49      0.48      0.00     72.6   69.6   0.0
Forest Management
Irrigated Timber         2.92      0.42      0.00      0.78      0.09      0.00     26.7   21.4   0.0
Plantations
TOTAL PROJECT            24.87     8.88      0.00      12.81     4.80      0.00     51.5   54.1   0.0
-25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A.     Production Impact
1.     At appraisal, increase in the production of timber due to farm forestry component, perennial
forage biomass, stocking measured in sheep units (SU), and revenues from livestock due to Social
Range and Scrub Forest Management (SRSFM) (separately for Pothwar and Thai areas) component
were estimated for evaluating the project benefits.
2.     In this analysis, actual data collected by the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit have been
used. The M&E data were periodically collected from the field formations in specified formats. The
data, entered and stored into a computer database, are fairly reliable. The following paragraphs
summarize the SAR projections and the ICR estimates for project benefits under various scenarios.
Quantifiable Benefits
3.     These benefits may be divided into three parts: those stemming from; (i) farm forestry, assuming
that 85% of seedlings were planted in linear fashion and 15% in compact blocks; (ii) public sector
irrigated plantations; and (iii) SRSFM component that includes pasture areas development, afforestation
and increased income from livestock.
Benefits of Fann Forestry
3.1 The analysis clearly demonstrates that benefits of farm forestry depend upon the tree species,
demand and marketability of forest produce. The analysis of available data with M&E and findings of
the mission (through sampled field visits in the project area) indicate that tree planting on farmlands,
be it semal, poplar, eucalyptus, shisham or kikar, irrespective of locality, particularly within the
project area, has a favorable financial and economic impact on the farmers. Timber and fuel wood
is the main output of the project's farm forestry component. The following table gives comparison of
production to be realized, with 20 years time horizon, with those estimated in the SAR. The excess
production when compared with the appraisal estimates (53 million tons more growing stock after 20
years, for example) is due to the fact that about 18 million more trees were planted under the project
(272 million in five years as compared to appraisal estimate of 254 million):
Production of Wood and Timber (000 tons)
Project Year        SAR Estimates             ICR Estimatese
Wood & timber  Of which   Wood & Umbery   Of which
ndustrial wood            Industrial wood
7            3,150         767          160           39
8            4,367        1,097        5,412         1,316
9            6,656        1,664        15,072        3.769
10           9,095        2,274        23,448        5,865
20           30,953       7,738        44,900        11,226
Source: M&E data for year 1996-97 to year 2001-02.
The data suggested that 765 million Iree stand in year 13, for instance, would be equivalent to 229 million tons of growing stock in year
20 A higher producvity parameter (0.195) was believed to be more realistc than the one employed in h SARs econorrm analysis
(0.175).
Beneflts of Inrigated Timber Plantations (ITPs)
3.2 Under this pilot component, 2,183 ha were planted with about 4 million tree seedlings. Of these,
about 3.162 million were of eucalyptus and about 0.832 million of shisham. The main activity, that is
rehabilitation of irrigation systems, was not undertaken. Since there was no comparator available (at
appraisal, economic evaluation of this component was not carried out), nor did it make sense that
without rehabilitating the irrigation system, the presumed tree growth rates would prevail. Therefore,
the ITP benefits have been computed for academic interest only, and that too using oonservative
estimates of about 1,800 trees per hectare with 70% survival rate.
- 26 -



Benefits of Scrub Forest and Rangelands
3.3 This component aims to improve the efficiency of traditional grazing systems in promoting a
working partnership of local pastoral organizations and govemment institutions for the regulation of
the use of lands suitable for grazing. The benefits envisaged at appraisal were: (i) reduction of
grazing pressure on pasture and scrub forest areas; (ii) increasing overall forage availability and
easy access to the potential grazing lands with re-plantation of scrub forests with fodder producing
species of trees. Under the project, the grazing and pasture areas development were to be
undertaken in private and public lands.
3.4 For Pothwar subproject area, the SAR estimated that total forage biomass would increase from
about 105 tons under without project to 405 tons under with project situation. The perennial forage
biomass was estimated to increase from 300 kg/ha to 2.4 t/ha on improved pastures and from 500
kg/ha to 1000 kg/ha on unimproved pastures. Stocking on improved pastures was assumed to
increase from 3 SUs/ha to 4 SUs/ha.
3.5 For Thai subproject area, perennial forage biomass was estimated to increase from 200 kg/ha to
1.5 t/ha on improved pastures (250 ha) and from 200 Kg/ha to 400 kg/ha on unimproved pastures
(250 ha) following changes in the management of grazing. In improved scrub forest (100 ha)
perennial forage biomass was expected to increase from about 333 kg/ha to about 600 kg/ha. As
such, the total production of forage biomass in Thal was estimated to improve from about 133 tons
without the project to 541 tons with the project. Stocking on improved pastures and improved scrub
areas was estimated to increase from about 0.66 SU/ha to 1.33 SU/ha.
3.6 The project successfully achieved the targets in both the subproject areas, but was restructured
for quality and performance in the case of Thal subproject area as some targets were reduced for
pasture development due to drought and more water points such as hand pumps and water ponds.
This ensured success of this subproject area. The following table shows the targets and
achievements in pasture area development and area under afforestation. Achievements of these
targets have an important bearing on the biomass production as well as stocking rates.
Pasture and Afforestation Area Development (ha)
Description            Thal                    Pothwar                  Total
Target  I Achievement     Target    Achievement   Target   Achievement
Pasture Dev
Pubic             4,300       4,360         5,100        5,100      9,400       9,640
Private             -    i      -           500          500         500        500
Afforestation
Pubic              710         710         10,500       10,500      11,210     11,210
Private            730         730          1,690   F    1,690      2,420       2,420
Fodder Crops              F             I
Pubic               -           -            -      i
Private             -    !                  1,250        1,250       1,250      1,250
Total              5,740       5 S,800      19,040       19,040      24,780     24,840
Pubgc             5,010        5,070        15,600      15,600      20,610     20,670
Private            730         730          3,440   i    3,440      4,170       4,170
3.7 Biomass Production. The M&E data, used to calculate the project impact on biomass
production, reveals that over a six year period, the project had a significant impact on biomass
production and on the livestock in both the Pothwar and the Thal subproject areas. The estimated
biomass production has been compared with those estimated at SAR in the following table:
-27 -



Estimated Biomass Production
As per SAR                        ICR Estimates
Description  Without Project With Project Ilcremental Without Project With Project Incremental
Kg/ha Total (mt) Kglha Total (mt) mt  %  Kg/ha Total (mt) Kg/ha Total (mt) mt  %
Pothwar
- Pasturelands  300   68    2400   180   112  164  300   68    2680   243   175  257
- Scrub lands   500   38    600   225    187  492  500   38    893    335   297  782
Total:      106    _     405   299  282   -     106         578   472  445
Thal                       I     ___I _
- Pasture lands  200  100   1500   375   275  275  200   100   1391   348   248  248
- Scrub lands   333   33    400    166   133  403  33    33    716    179   146  442
Total:=     133          541   408  306   =     133   -     527   394296
Source: SAR. PC-1 of Project and M&E data; bionass producion is indicated as average annual figure.
Non-Quantifiable Benefits
4.     Farm forestry, scrub forests, and rangelands activities contributed to increased soil cover,
decreased fallow land, improved land management, and retuming more organic matter to farmlands than
before the project. It can be concluded that the project did make some contribution to a sustainable
increase in land productivity, although it has not been empirically measured or how much can be
attributed to the project. Community participation in natural resource management is another major
strategic underpinning of this project. The project also helped in reducing the grazing pressure on natural
forest areas and thus contributed to natural grass and forest cover to re-establish itself and provide
vegetative growth, which would be helpful in improving the resource base in the project area. The
understanding and premise of non-quantifiable benefits at the time of completion (ICR stage) is similar to
appraisal estimates.
Socioeconomic Benefits
5.    It is too early at this stage of project completion to fully evaluate the social impacts because full
development of farm trees, scrub forest production and improved natural resource management will take
many more years to modify the living pattem of people. However, certain trends are evident. Based
on some physical parameters obtained from calculations, such as increased biomass production, and
observation made in the field, one can say with confidence that the project will make a significant social
impact to the extent it was spatally implemented. The impact evaluation of the project in a report
produced by the Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI) released in March 2002 helps in
understanding these trends in the absence of any hard data from the M&E Unit on this important aspect.
Since PERI also conducted a baseline in 1999, a comparison of the two brings to light some very
interesting characteristics.
6.     The average number of farm trees per acre slightly declined from 19.46 to 18.87 (or 48/ha to
47). Because the gross number of trees planted did not decline (PERI reports estimates that 26% of the surviving
trees were planrtd durng the project period), it can be argued that the trees cut almost equalled the trees planted.
There was quite a bit of tree felling in the farmlands because of shisham die back disease, a persistent
drought for the past three years, and a growing trend to move away from planting eucalyptus to other
species did contribute to this decline in farm tree density. The number of private nurseries averaged
around one thousand, the largest number being 1,338 at one point of time and the lowest at 777. Gross
income per farm from trees sold increased, in two years, from Rs. 12,942 at baseline to Rs. 13,119 at
impact evaluation, that is about 1% in the case of village afforestation committee (VAC) members, while
it rose from Rs. 6,845 to Rs. 9,145, an increase of 34%, in the case of nonmembers. It implies that VAC
members did not eliminate their farm trees as extensively as other farmers.
7.     Another interesting finding is that from a Rupee spent by the consumer for purchase of wood,
25% went to the farmer who happens to be the producer, 30% to middleman, and 45% to retailer.
Therefore, indirect project beneficiaries also include fuelwood and timber traders, nursery operators and
- 28 -



input suppliers.
8.    The interaction of the farmers and the department (PFD) increased due to better involvement of
Greenmen at nursery level. The Greenmen advised about 60% of nursery growers regarding method of
planting, marketing and transportation techniques of seed/seedlings. Thus a positive change in the
attitude of those farmers who wanted to raise their own nurseries, or those who ventured to establish
commercial nurseries was brought about. The rate of sale of plants through private nurseries increased
by 97%. About one third of those private nurseries that existed before the project and were producing
non-forest seedlings (fruits, omamental, etc.), diversified their activities and included forest trees in their
stocks.
9.    The average number of adult animal ownership in the communities, where the project operated
the pilot SRSFM component, increased from 9.9 to 10.5 animals per unit. However, a slight increase in
the mortality rate of milch animals (it increased by 3.1% in cows and 2.7% in buffaloes) indicates the
reason for the popularity of livestock management and disease control course for designated community
workers. This course was intermediated by the NRSP and was acclaimed by the community members to
have impact on the livestock health a few years later when these trained paramedics increase their
coverage.
10.   The average milk yield increased by 4.2% in case of buffaloes and 2.1% in case of cows, thus
helping raise the social-economic profile of households.
11.   With the formation of COs there has been a sense of empowerment brought on by mutual
interest and cohesion. The community forums facilitated resolution of conflict, for example 88%
respondents of the PERI survey acknowledged that the conflicts, when arose (13%), were resolved by
the COs.
B.    Income Impact
12.   The project facilitated enhancing the income levels of the various project beneficiaries. While
M&E Unit did not conduct any such study, or kept track of baseline income levels to compare those at
mid-point and completion time of the project, an assessment has been made with the help of the PERI
impact evaluation report. The income impact of the project can be summarized as follows:
Income from Forest Trees
12.1      The gross income from forest trees has been estimated on the basis of retums from sale
of trees or consumption of trees at domestic level. The information was collected by PERI by
interviewing the selected farmers. The result shows that per farm income increased from Rs. 6,845
per annum in the baseline to Rs 9,145 per annum at the completion of the project. The expected
farm level (up to 12.5 ha farm) incremental income is estimated as Rs. 7,005 at maturity of the
planted trees.
Income from Livestock
12.2      With the improved availability of forage and nutrition under the project, it is expected
that culled animals could achieve a 20% increase in weight and that the off-take can increase up to
25%. These changes would increase the value of income from the herd to about Rs 300 per sheep
unit (the same was estimated as Rs 236 per sheep unit at appraisal-1995 prices). This increase has
been assumed to be realized in cash. In line with the SAR, the increases in marketed wool and
quantities of meat consumed by households have not been accounted for in the analysis. The impact
on income due to a 20% increase in weight of the animal has been taken into account only in the
financial analysis. Contrary to the SAR, this has been eliminated while working out the economic
analysis, because this has been considered as the chain benefit of the project activities and is
considered double counting of benefits while working out the economic analysis. Similarly, benefits
of larger stock milch animals (cow/buffalo) could although be significant (of Rs 45,463 per farm
income from livestock, a good part was attributed to milk prices overtime), these benefits were
assumed to be included in the weight gains.
- 29 -



Income of Indirect Beneficiaries
12.3      The project also helped persons/ families engaged in the business of sericulture
including production of mulberry leaves, silk seed distribution, silk worm egg raising, silk cocoon
production, basket making, honey production in a limited manner within the scrub forest areas and
ITPs. Because of indirect and limited benefits, as well as very little inputs from the project (both
were pilot components), M&E Unit did not plan for collecting such data due to inadequate resources.
However, it is estimated that the project benefited 3,500 families engaged in sericulture and other
cottage industries.
C.     Employment Impact
Establishment of Nurseries
13.   It is estimated that the project benefited directly about 2,500 persons, in about 800 nurseries
established under the project. It also provided indirect employment to more than 30,000 families,
particularly to the low-income groups and to the wage eamers, who were involved in the business of
carriage, transportation etc.
Marketing of Wood
14.   The project would also benefit those who are engaged in the sale of fuel-wood. The number of
such beneficiaries is estimated as approximately 40,000, which is about 10% more than estimated at
appraisal. The project would also provide employment to persons engaged in supply of raw material for
the sports and handicraft cottage industries.
D.    Costs
Investmnent Costs
15.   The investment costs in current Pakistani Rupee (Rs) terms were converted to December 2001
prices by applying the Pakistan consumer price index to local costs and MUV index to foreign costs.
Local Currency Costs
16.   For the purpose of economic analysis, the local costs in constant financial prices were converted
into economic prices by applying standard conversion factor of 0.90 to all the costs except the costs
against human resource development, administration and M&E. No conversion factor has been applied
to the components of human resource development, administration and M&E. Their economic value has
been considered equivalent to their financial costs due to the fact that their opportunity cost is considered
high in Pakistan.
Foreign Currency Costs
17.   In the SAR, foreign exchange was estimated to be 34% of the total project cost. In addition to
incremental foreign costs of certain items, goods and services, it also constituted the estimated costs of
foreign training, recruitment of foreign consultants and other expected foreign costs. At completion, the
foreign component has been calculated on actual basis and it comes to 25.7% of total actual costs
incurred. This reduction was due to the fact that the program of foreign training did not materialize. As
per standard perspectives, no conversion factor has been applied to the foreign component and the
same has been assumed as the economic cost of the project.
Operatons and Maintenance (O&M) Costs
18.   The O&M costs were converted to economic prices by applying a standard conversion factor of
0.9.
E.     Estimates of Economic and Financial Rate of Retum (ERR and FRR)
19.   In this analysis, the following assumptions have been made:
- 30 -



(i) The main assumptions made in the ICR, for economic analysis, are similar to those in the SAR,
except the benefits of 20% increase in weight of the animals. This assumption of SAR is considered
superfluous as it double counts the benefits. The benefits from improved pastureland and additional
biomass have already been taken into account by adding their value in monetary terms in cash flow
of benefits. However, this assumption has been considered valid for computing the benefits for
financial analysis.
(ii) The benefits of scrub forest and rangeland have been computed by taking the true value of
incremental biomass, fuel wood and sheep units. The incremental value of milk, animal weight and
household income has been considered as the resultant benefit of biomass produced under the
project and has not been added in the cash flow of project benefits.
(iii) For working out the cash flow of benefits, the maturity age of different species has been taken as
per their natural economic life, at which the farmers used to sell the trees. This is for eucalyptus 10
years; shisham 20 years; semal 11 years; poplar 10 years; and for kikar20 years.
20.    The summary results of the economic rates of return are presented below:
Economic Rates of Return, %
Project & its components              At        At appraisal   Range in
completion       (SAR)         SAR
Farm Forestry                                14.9          13.2         14-19
Socdal, Range/Scrub Forest Mgt (SRSFM)       14.1          11.6         12-14
SRSFM, Pothwar                             15.0           11.5          15'
SRSFM, Thai                                11.0           11.8          11'
Irrigated Timber Plantations                 11.3       not calculated  not available
Overall Project                             14.4          13.3         14-18
gI In Ute staff appraisal reporlt ERRs are indicated in a wide range due to multiple scenarios used for calculations. Equivalent
single number ERR figures for one particular scenario have been employed to the ICR analysis that is closest to the scenario
assumed at appraisal.
1 In the case of SRSFM component SAR vlues (12% overal, 15% for Pothwar and 11% for Thal) have been corrected to
eliminate double counling of benefd streams as Incremental sheep weights and inaemental biomass were courded.
Sensitivity Analysis
21.    The ERR is not much sensitive to varation in project costs and benefits. The analysis shows
that variations in benefits or costs of the rangeland development and scrub forest component have little
impact on overall project performance. Farm forestry benefits are the main determinant of the project's
rate of retum. Keeping all project costs at base levels, a decrease of 31% in the incremental benefits of
the project (or 40% increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits) would lower the ERR to the average
opportunity cost of capital, i.e. 10% as prevalent in Pakistan. The ERR response to different
combinations of changes in costs and benefits are shown in the following table:
Economic Rates of Return: Effect of Variations in Costs and Benefits
Decrease in Benefits       Increase in Costs (Percent)
(Percent)        10      20      30     40       50
0            14.6    14.5    14.4   14.3     14.1
10           12.5     12.4   12.3   12.1     12.1
20           10.3     10.2    10.1  10.0      9.9
30           8.1      8.0     7.9    7.8      7.7
40           5.7      5.6     5.6    5.5      5.4
50           3.2      3.1     3.0    3.0      2.9
Financial Rate of Retum (FRR)
- 31 -



22.    The economic analysis presented has been revised using the financial prices for determining the
internal rates of return in financial terms. Moreover, the return on investment made by the private
entrepreneurs in response to project activities has also been determined. The financial analysis has
been done on the same lines as the economic analysis except that here the financial prices have been
used. The financial return for the overall project is close to the FRR for the farm forestry component,
because this component brings most benefits and accounts for about 80% of the project costs. Net
present values have also been computed using 12% (used in SAR) discount rate. A summary of results
is shown in the following table:
Summary Results of Financial Analysis, FRR as %
Component         At completion     At            NPV (M, Rs)
________________________ap       p raisal      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Farm Forestry               14.1         11.0             503.48
2. SRSFM                        17.3         16.0             103.14
a. Pothwar                       18.6        17.0              78.33
b. Thal                         13.1         15.0             24.80
3. ITP                          11.6       not done            25.59
Overall Project             14.0         12.3              632.21
Return on Equity (ROE)
23.    The major contribution of private entrepreneurs has been for the farm forestry component of the
project. Under this component, they established about 800 bed and potted nurseries where they
produced over 272 million seedlings of different species. It involved an investment of about Rs 120
million as fixed capital and Rs 3.6 million as O&M costs per annum. The basis for computing the benefits
is the same as used for the financial analysis and explained in the former paragraphs. The estimated rate
of retum on equity (ROE) is accordingly worked out as 17.1%. The ROE was not estimated at appraisal.
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc)  -   Implementation Development
Monih/Year     Count           Specialty  -                   Progress-     Objective
Identification/Preparation
1-2/93                       4    AGR, FOR (3)
11/93                        9    AGR, FOR (2), INST
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/94                         9    AGR, FOR (2), RANGE (2),
ECO, SOC, DISB, PROC
Supervision
8/95                          3   FOR (2), PROC                       U             S
3/96                          6   NRM, FOR (2), DISB, PROC,           U             U
RANGE
11/96                        6    AGR, PA, FOR, RANGE, DISB,          S             U
PROC
6/97                          4   AGR, AUD, DISB, RANGE               S             S
2/98                          5   AGR (2), FOR, AUD, RANGE            S             S
8/98                          4   AGR, FOR, ECO, PROC                 U             S
3/99 (MTR)                    9   AGR (2), FOR (2), DISB, FMS,        S             S
AUD, PROC, CDS
8/99                          6   AGR, FOR, DISB, TA, CDS,            S             S
ENG
2/00                          7   AGR (2), FOR, DISB, FMS, TA         S             S
CDS
8/00                          7   AGR (2), FOR, TA, DISB, FMS,        S             S
CDS
2/01                          3   AGR, FOR, CDS                       S             S
8/01                          9   AGR (2), ECO (2), FMS, DISB,        S             S
TA, FOR. CDS
ICR
11/01                        6    AGR, FOR, CDS, ECO,                 S             S
FMS, DISB
AGR=Agdcultudst, AUJD=Audit Reporling, CDS=Communfty Dev. Spec, ECO=Econornist ENG=Civil Engireer, DISB=Disbursement
Spec., FMS=Finandal Managemant Spec, FOR=Forester. INST=lnstitutlonal Spedalist, NRM=Natural Resource Mgt Spec..
PA=Projects Adviser, PROC=Procurement Spec, RANGE=Range Ecobgist, SOC=Sodologist. TA=Team Assistant.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle             -      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            - USs ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 NA                    (merged in
Appr/Neg)
Appraisal/Negotiation                      NA                        876.15
Supervision                             132.83                       392.62
ICR                                        NA                           NA
Total                                   132.83                     1,269.77
Separate dollar figures for identffication/preparation, and for supervision and ICR are not available.
- 33 -



Resources used for ICR are merged in supervision. Actual as on 06/03/2002.
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                     O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                    O H  * SU O M   O N O NA
L Physical                            O H  OSU*M      O N O NA
L Financial                           OH   OSUOM      O N O NA
Fl Institutional Development          0 H O SU *M     0 N 0 NA
Li Environmental                      O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
Social
D Poverty Reduction             O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
Oi Gender                       O H OSUOM       *N   O NA
L Other (Please specify)        OH   OSUOM      ON O NA
Li Private sector development         O H  * SU O M   O N 0 NA
Li Public sector management           0 H O SU *M     0 N 0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)             0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHSOS OLu OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
LI Preparation                                      OHS OS       O u    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       Ou     O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U    O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
StudieslReports Prepared under the Project
1.    Baseline study for irrigated plantations
2.     Baseline study for the project
3.    Impact evaluation study for the project
4.     Management Plans for Irrigated Plantations (3 plans)
5.     Revised PC-1 for the project
6.     Soil Survey Reports (106 reports for 106 tehsils) and one Manual
7.     Study on M&E Reports (8 volumes, including one final report and one MIS Database Manual)
8.     Study on Project Management Report (1 volume)
9.     Study on Silviculture (5 volumes, including a Manual for Tree Growers)
10.   Study on Policy and Institutions (1 volume)
11.   Study on Nursery Establishment (3 volumes)
12.   Study on Agro-forestry (8 volumes, including 6 series, one final report and on Manual)
13.   Study on Marketing (6 volumes, including one final report)
14.   Study on Tissue Culture (4 volumes)
15.   Study on Seed Technology (8 volumes, including one final report and two manuals)
16.   Study on Human Resource Development (2 volumes)
17.   Study on Grazing (4 volumes, including a bibliography of range research and fodder production)
18.   Study on Community Development (2 volumes)
Documents/Reports of the Bank Consulted
1. Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project: FY 1996-2002
2. Black Books and Project (Cr. 2747-PAK) files in the Islamabad Field Office: 1993-2002
3. Staff Appraisal Report (5/30/95) and Development Credit and Project Agreements (7/27/1995)
4. Bank's Operational Manual
5. Guidelines for Preparing ICRs (June 1999)
- 37.



Additional Annex 8. Bo rrower's Evaluation Report
CiCE. OF THE CHIEF CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS/PROJECT DIRECTOR, PUNJAB
FORSST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, I0",- RAVJE.
PHONE No.042-7730532. Fax No 042-7,  73i O1 L t
To                                                      *     2 FlB 296        *
The Secretary,                          ' T t'C::EJVED      )
Government of the Punjab,
Forestry, Wildlife, Fisherie; & Tourism Depri-rncnt.
Lahore.
NO.                      DATED LAHORE,'The                     25/U2/2002
Subj.cCt:-         BORROWER'S EVALUATION R'5PORT
The report 1as been revieved by the or.uimttee co.rpo ..mg Ar. l:.:q
Melmniood. Conservator of Forests, Monitoring & Evaluation Cell, LaiJilue, Mi S ana u.b-li
Bhlilti CFCO, Mr Akmal Raslum DFO, Sbeikh Mihammnad Azaru. DOF  anid the un Jersign.-d
analytically. The revised report for onward submission to tl:t World Bunk: s er.:ost d. l n;. y
inforni you that this report will become a pawt of the ICR which xvil b. pi iiiud nnr) ,ub%sh- ai
b' ;ac World Bank in Juc course of timn
Encl,sed As Above
\ C
CH iEI' 2ONSFit's .    Oa: I; )REST' :/
EX-OFFICIO PR!jLC1' Dk!k C FOR
Pi-SDP, LAI-IORE
No. Vq \   - is-0 /Cc F/P IDated Laliore, the                  25702/2tXl.
Copy ts forwarded to:
%.      Mr Rashe d ui Qayyumr, Tarask Leader, PFSiDP, The World BankllFC/Mv I G A. Paksiji. Li
Residemi Missio,. P.O.Box 1025, Islamabid, for favou. of ii,forreation ans nczessart
acuon.
2     The Conier-at- cof Farestc. Monitoring and Evahiation Ccll,  1c ffj ;f:o; rnal,on
and nLcent,'y . .tilo
CHIEF QiSERVATO; OF F )RFS1'i SJ
EX-OFFIC'jO PROJECT DIR .CTCP
PrSDP, LAHORE
Background
1 .      Agro-forestry has been a very well known concept in Punjab. It dates back to the times when,
- 38 -



over a century ago, construction of a network of canals was started and irrigated agriculture was
introduced. Alongside agriculture, trees were planted to provide shade for human beings against
scorching heat, and to produce wood to meet the local requirements of fuelwood, construction of house
and agricultural implements. In that era, however, tree growing was not a commercial activity.
2.     With the creation of Pakistan, the scarcity of wood in the province was soon realized because, in
this part of the sub-continent, the state-owned forests were not sufficient to meet the growing demand of
fuelwood and timber. Farmers were persuaded to grow trees on farmlands at a much larger scale than
before and as a first step shisham root-shoot cuttings were supplied to them free of cost. As population,
and consequentially demand for wood, grew, projects were launched to mobilize the masses and create
awareness in the field of farm/social forestry. The USAID project, implemented in the rainfed Pothwar
tract, was a step forward to transfer technology to the private sector for establishing tree seedling
nurseries. However, all these development activities were based on either free of cost or subsidized
supply of seedlings to farmers, which obviously were not sustainable. The Punjab Forest Sector
Development Project was a continuation of the ongoing farm forestry initiatives but with the difference
that the supply of tree seedlings to farmers was to be on cost basis rather than for free. The subsidy on
tree seedlings was to be removed during the project period in a phased manner. Additionally, the project
included components of institutional strengthening and rangeland and irrigated plantation rehabilitation.
Project Objective
3.    The objective was three-fold, namely, (I) broaden the productive base of wood through the
expansion of farm forestry and promoting private sector participation in plantation management; (ii)
introduce community-based rehabilitation and management of scrub forests and rangelands; and (iii)
strengthen private, public and community institutions managing the sector in Punjab.
Project Components
4.    Institutional Development:  (a) reviewing the human resources available to the forest
sector; (b) improving research facilities at the Punjab Forest Research Institute (PFRI); and (c)
strengthening Punjab Forest Department's (PFD) capacity to monitor and evaluate sector development
under the project.
5.     Farm Forestry Extension & Research:(a) facilitating the transfer of technology to expand
private sector participation in the development of sustainable supplies of wood and wood products
through strengthening the extension capability of PFD; (b) facilitating the transfer of information needed
to promote farmer's participation in wood markets; (c) improving the availability of superior planting
material through research at PFRI; and (d) undertaking adaptive research at PFRI and farmers' fields
with emphasis on species/variety trials and improvement of silvicultural practices.
6.     Social Range and Scrub Forest Rehabilitation:  (a) rehabilitating and improving about
21,400 ha of range and scrub forests in Pothwar (10,200 ha) and Thai (11,200 ha) tracts: (b) introducing
participatory planning and management systems for public range and scrub lands through Community
Organization (COs) established in about 100 villages clustered around selected public reserves (68
villages in Pothwar, 32 in Thal); (c) testing mechanisms for cost recovery to sustain range and scrub
improvement; (d) providing training and support to PFD staff and farmers to promote a farmer oriented,
participatory approach to range management; and (e) supporting applied research on fodder trees and
shrubs, range system ecology, feed quality and related social and economic themes.
7.    Timber Plantations:  (a) enhancing the positive environmental conservation role of irrigated
timber plantations and to design optimal technical and organizational plans for the sustainable
management of the plantations.
The Project PC-i
- 39 -



8.    The original PC-I was approved by ECNEC in 1995, involving a cost of Rs.1,224.73 million (IDA,
Rs.899.79 million; GOP, Rs.324.94 million), for a period of six years from July 1995 to June, 2001.
Increased costs on delayed purchase of durable goods and positioning of consultants, daily wages of
laborers, staff TAJDA, and POL necessitated the revision of the PC- I. The revised PC-I was approved in
December 1998. The total cost was reduced from Rs.1, 224.73 million to Rs.1, 200.00 million (IDA,
Rs.900.67 million; GOP, Rs.299.33 million). The project period was extended upto December 31, 2001.
9.    Component-wise detail of finances proposed under the original and revised PC-Is was as under:
(Rs. In million)
Component                        Original PC-I            Revised PC1I
IDA Share  GOP Share    Total
Farm Forestry Extension                682.35     361.73       171.19     532.92
Farm Forestry Research                 184.20     110.86        43.33     154.19
Social Range & Scrub Management        150.66     157.65        32.04      189.69
Irrigated Plantations                  120.05     220.31        38.48     258.79
Institutional Development
Human Resource Development      I       18.43       8.71         0.00     8.7100
Administrative Unit                     26.97       12.81        1.94       14.75
Monitoring and Evaluation               42.07      28.60        12.35      40.95
Grand Total                           1224.73     900.67       299.33     1200.00
Project Achievements
10.   Financial.  Component-wise utilization of funds is depicted in the following table:
Component                      Allocation as per PC-I       Utilization         %age
IDA     GOP     Total   IDA       GOP     Total
Share   Share            Share    Share
Farm Forestry Extension      361.73  171.19  532.92  314.852  141.460 456.312   85.62
Farm Forestry Research       110.86   43.33  154.19   85.088   29.533 114.621   74.3
Social Range and Scrub       157.65   32.04  189.69  127.208   24.268 151.476   79.85
Irrigated Plantations        220.31   38.48  258.79   46.971    4.698   51.669  19.97
Institutional Support & Human Resource:
(a) Human Resource Dev.        8.71       0    8.71    8.354        0    8.354  95.91
(b) Administrative Unit       12.81    1.94   14.75    12.135   1.046   13.181  89.3
(c) Monitoring & Evaluation   28.60   12.35   40.95    19.656   7.436   27.102  66.11
TOTAL:                       900.67  299.33 1200.00  614.274  208.441  822.715  68.5
11.   Physical:   Major targets achieved under various components are depicted below:
Farm Forestry Extension Component
Activity                              Unit                  Target    Achievement
Purchase of Toyota Single Cabin Pickups  No.                   68              68
Purchase of Nissan Single Cabin Pickups  No.                     3              3
Purchase of Suzuki Pothwar Jeeps      No.                        4              4
-40 -



Purchase of Motor Cycles                 No.                       35z             354
Purchase of Publicity Vans               No.                                         8
Purchase of Soni Coaches                 No.                                         3
Village visited                          No.                       N}          166,828
Farmers contacted                        No.                       N           924,240
Farmer days conducted                    No.                       NN           28,494
Workshop/Seminars                        No.                        NA           3,886
Construction of Buildings (Non-Residential)  No.                     X               2
Purchase of Computers                    No.                        2               23
Establishment of Private Nurseries       No.                      1,03             756
Distribution of plants                   Million                   NA              279
Farm Forestry Research Component
Activity                                 Unit                  Target     Achievement
Purchase of Single Cabin Pickups         No.                       12               12
Purchase of Bus                          No.                         1               1
Purchase of Motor Cycles                 No.                        12              12
Construction of Buildings (Residential)  No.                        19              19
Construction of Buildings (Non-residential)  No.                     9               9
Establishment of Tissue Culture laboratory  No.                      1               1
Marking of Plus Trees                    No.                        NA         117,010
Collection of seed                       No.                       NA          126,530
Social Range and Scrub Management
Activity                                 Unit                   Target     Achievement
Purchase of Single Cabin Pickups         No.                        6                6
Purchase of Motor Cycles                 No.                        1C              10'
Purchase of Bulldozer                    No.                         I               1
Purchase of Tractors                     No.                         3               3
Construction of Buildings (Non-residential)  No.                    4* 4
Social Range and Scrub Management (Pothwar Tract)
Activity                                 Unit                   Target     Achievement
Afforestation in State Forests           Ha                     10500            10500
Afforestation in Private Lands           Ha                       1690            1690
Pasture Development
State Land                               Ha                       5100            5100
Private Land                             Ha                        50              500
Fodder crops Private Land                Ha                       12              1250
Development of Water Ponds               No.                       40               41
Social Range and Scrub Management (Thal Tract)
Activity                                 Unit                   Target     Achievement
Afforestation in State Forests           Ha                        710             710
Afforestation in Private Lands           Ha                        73C             730
Pasture Development                      Ha                       430C            4360
Installation of hand pumps               No.                      130              130
-41 -



Irrigated Plantations
Activity                                   Unit                     Target     Achievement
Baseline Studies                           No.                           1                1
Management Plans                           No.                            3               3
Afforestation                              Ha                        2225              2183
Technical Assistance (HTS)
Activity                                   Unit                     Target     Achievement
Purchase of Mitsubishi Double Cabin Pickups  No.                         3                3
(2 x 4)
Purchase Nissan Sunny Cars                 No.                           2                2
12.    Institutional:  Major targets achieved are depicted below:
Local Training
NO   CATEGORY       TOTAL                         ACHIEVMENTS                     | TOTAL
TARGETS    1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  99-2000  2000-01
1   CCF/DFO               100       34       271             112       28              201
2    SDFO/RFO             266       76      110               71       89              346
3    FORESTER/F.G         362      121      110      28       25      120      169     573
COMPUTER  TRAINING    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ __           _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
4  |OFFICERS/ T           160| -N             -1       -1     759     4121      481   1219
OFFICIALS      j _ _  _     _ _  _ I _ _ _ I _ _  _ I _ _ _    _  _     _  _     _ _
GENERAL TRAINING/MASS AWARENESS S              I          I       I        I        I
5    FARMERS              680      114      886                         -        -    1000
6    NGOS/WOMEN           150      400       70               195      74      492    1231
7    MINISTERIAL          100        -        -               48      189       37     274
STAFF_____                                                  I    __           I   _
8 TECHNICAL             10        -        -        --                -      24      24
STA FF          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _   _  _ _
TOTAL                    1828      745     1203       28     1210     912      770    4868
Analysis of Achievements
13.    Apparently, except for the irrigated plantatons component the targets as envisaged in the PC-I
document were mostly achieved. Among the institutional components, however, foreign training was not
availed off. HRD study was undertaken by TA consultants. As a result of consultant recommendations,
the Punjab Cabinet approved a policy document. The re-organization of PFD could not be undertaken
because in the meantime devolution of powers to District Government had started taking place.
14.    Farm Forestry Extension Component. The project aimed at expansion of private sector
participation in the development of sustainable supplies of wood and wood products through
strengthening the extension capabilities of the PFD. In order to achieve this goal, the following activities
were to be undertaken:
v      Facilitating the transfer of information needed to increase small holder participation in wood
markets by providing the PFD with facilities, technical assistance and operating funds.
v      Improving the availability of superior planting material by providing PFRI with operating funds to
undertake research.
v      Undertaking adaptive research by providing operating funds to conduct species / variety trials
and improve silvicultural practices on farmlands.
15.    With the intervention of the project, PFD was able to implement its outreach program down to
-42 -



Markaz level. Wood market rates and trend was communicated to the farmers through Shajarkar,
monthly published by PFSD, however, Marketing Information System could not be developed. Curricula
for farmers was developed and implemented. Greenmen's frequent interaction with farmers helped the
rural population as follows:
v      Establishment of private nurseries
v     Transfer of technology for quality wood
v      Production of improved seedlings
v      Identification of plus trees
v      Marketing of wood produced at farms
16.   The result of the above said activities was:
v      Creation of job opportunities in rural areas
v      Poverty alleviation
v      Increase in the income of farmers
v      Saving of Rs.30-40 million on account of removal of subsidy on tree seedlings
v     Closer collaboration between PFD, tree growers and wood-based industry
17.   Farm Forestry Research Component. The project's main objective under this component
was to strengthen PFRI to carry out applied and adaptive research. The specific objectives were
distributed to all field formations in order to ensure wide spread use of the quality seed for the production
of good quality wood. Legislation is also required to ban use of seed collected from trees other than plus
trees. Seed unit should also start certification of seed and establish its own seed orchards.
v      Improvement of planting material
v      Undertaking research on seed quality
v      Conduct species and variety trials and improve silvicultural practices on farm lands
18.   To achieve these objectives, PFRI concentrated on two areas, namely farm forestry research
and establishments of a seed supply system. Technical assistance in the fields of nursery establishment,
silvicultural practices, and tissue culture was gainfully utilized. Farm forestry research was, however,
limited to the effects of trees on agricultural crops only. Eucalyptus continued to be the main species all
over the province, except that Shisham and Semal were also propagated in Sargodha civil division.
19.   For genetic improvement, a tissue culture laboratory was established with project funds. Seed
unit has done a good job by identifying plus trees throughout Punjab. Lists of these plus trees should be
20.    Social Range and Scrub Forests Management Component: This component aimed at
introduction of participatory planning and management for public range and scrub lands through the
establishment of community organizations (COs) and testing mechanisms for cost recovery to sustain
range and scrub improvement besides supporting applied research on fodder trees and shrubs, range
systems ecology, feed quality, and related social and economic themes.
21.   To achieve these objectives the following strategy was proposed in the PC-I.
-      Rehabilitating selected range and scrub forests in Pothwar and Thai areas
-     Establishment of water points in the shape of ponds in Pothwar and hand pumps in Thai
-      Establishment of community organization in villages clustered around the forests and range
lands
22.   The strategy adopted was to develop pasturelands by re-seeding and carrying out afforestation
on blank forest areas. Under this component, almost all the targets of the PC-I were achieved, both on
state and private lands. The community organizations were formed and members trained through NRSP
and consultants hired for the purpose. The desired results of participatory planning and management of
range and scrub forests was mostly achieved. The objectives were achieved through participation of
-43 -



Cos.
23.   The main problem in Scrub and Rangeland areas is their management. Establishment of COs
helped considerably in resolving this problem. Further strengthening of COs and continued support from
NRSP will hopefully result in improved management of these areas.
24.   Irrigated Timber Plantations Component. The objectives spelled out for this component were:
-     To enhance the environmental value of irrigated timber plantations
-     To design optimal technical and organizational plans for the sustainable management of these
plantations
25.   The strategy proposed to achieve these objectives was:
-     Base line study of selected irrigated plantations
-     Designing of management and organizational plans of three irrigated plantations
-      Implementation of pilot program for
-      Rehabilitation of irrigation systems of six selected irrigated plantations
-     Afforestation of 2753 ha (6800 acres) in six selected plantations
-     Environmental conservation.
26.   Physical targets under this component, like rehabilitation of irrigation system, remained
un-achieved on account of exorbitant bids offered by the contractors. The design and cost estimates
prepared by NESPAK, however, can be used by PFD for improvement of irrigation system through its
own resources at a later stage. The target of afforestation has been achieved upto 98.1% (2,183 ha). The
total target could not be completed due to shortage of irrigation water supply.
27.   Baseline study of irrigated plantations undertaken through project funds identified major
obstacles in the sustainable management of the plantations. The problems spelled out in the document
were:
-      Inadequate funding for maintenance of plantations
-     Shortage of irrigation water supply
-      Resident labor
-     Protection
28.   Management plans for three irrigated plantations were targeted for advancement of proposals for
resource management. For this purpose consultancies in Economics, Irrigation Engineering, Sociology
and Corporate Sector were provided. The recommendations of the management plans will be
incorporated in the future working plans to be prepared by PFD. The success of afforestation undertaken
through project funds should be ensured by providing maintenance funds. The results gathered from the
successful implementation of the component would be applied to other plantations.
29.   Institutional Development Component. The objectives of this component were:
-     Reviewing the available human resource in PFD
-     Improvement of research facilities at PFRI
-     Strengthening PFD's capacity to monitor and evaluate sector development
30.   Achievements under the various sub-components are discussed hereunder:
(a)   Human Resource Development
Recommendations of TA experts could not be reviewed and implemented because in the meantime
Govemment had started devolving more powers to newly established District Governments. Foreign and
- 44 -



local university level training could not materialize on account of ban imposed on such training by the
Federal Government and non-finalization of nominations by the provincial Government. Proper resource
management requires expertise in economics, marketing analysis, hydrology, sociology and forestry. In
the coming years, personnel trained only in forestry would not be able to deliver the goods.
(b)   Administrative Unit.
The unit with deficient staff carried out its responsibilities in a satisfactory manner.
(c)    Monitoring and Evaluation.
Objectives set forth for this sub-component were only partially achieved because of lack of coordination
vertically and horizontally, and non-availability of a full contingent of staff. Despite the shortcomings, the
project was able to compile.
-      Monthly Progress Reports
-      Quarterly Progress Reports
-      Half yearly Progress Reports
-     Annual Progress Reports
-      On site evaluation reports
A computer-based MIS prepared by the consultants would be used for developing a database and
reporting progress.
Borrower's Performance
31.   The important initiatives of removing subsidy on tree seedlings, abolishing taxes on transit of
wood and training of staff, farmers and nursery growers were taken timely. All physical targets were
mostly met. Almost in line with project's projectons, private nurseries came into being and the public
sector nurseries were phased out. A system of production and distribution of quality seed was
established. Community Organizabions, though not yet self-reliant, were established in the range and
scrub areas. Overall level of staffing remained inadequate throughout the project period. Procurement of
goods was delayed, but only slightly. On the other hand, Project Directors were rotated rather too quickly
(12 during project period). The project TA came on board very late resulting in delays in carrying outfield
work, particularly for the rangeland/scrub and irrigated plantation components. Key professional staff was
not provided to M&E Unit, which affected its performance adversely. Irrigation systems of irrigated
plantations were not rehabilitated. Marketing aspect of wood production was neglected, foreign training
was not availed of. In balance, since a heightened awareness among people about farm forestry was
visible, private nursery growers were functioning confidently, and a start had been made to manage
scrub and rangelands hand in hand with local communities, which amounted to improvement in the
performance of the forestry sector. The overall performance of the Borrower can be termed as
satisfactory.
Bank's Performance
32.    Monitoring of project activities by the World Bank supervision missions generally was unique
opportunity for leaming by project staff. Overall, however, except for one or two occasions when release
of funds was delayed, the Bank staff made prompt and timely decisions which helped the project run
smoothly. The performance of the Bank, therefore, can be termed as satisfactory.
Lessons Leamt
-      With greater interaction amongst the various stakeholders in the Forestry project which was
enabled by the project, a positive change in the attitude of Forest Officers was visible that is required to
be replicated for improvement of protection and management of the other state forests.
-      PC-I targets must not be made so sacred as to not allow deviations under changed ground
- 45 -



conditions.
-      Foreign consultants should be avoided as they lack knowledge of local conditions.
-      Personal Ledger Accounts (PLAs) were not found to be suitable for PFD because its own
accounting system functioned more efficiently.
- 46 -



IBRD 26496
TURKMENISTAN         ;;.  Z         72                       70
UZBEK]STAN  TAJIKISTAN
/ 36                             p. 
AFHNSAN     .- :AF                       ' 0*Approx,mote L,ne
| AFGl<3HANISTAN                   A |      A4 I1  B        ofContol
(r.UI.   awo ~~~pind           JAv/ U
32          r 
I ~  ~    tswf I  _\tuhb!!!J     ,1   i     A4               -
3A~~~~~~LMO              (CHAISTA7 il-         M
'--.4  -  INDIU  I  1 ''~~~AN
PAK    D; 30 } {gTAN' KAIANTAN     SAHIW
A.
-2r~              A- RO TE  /'iA oT e'-
i !i--D!iNJPROVINCE                                                   .
'IS-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.  , ;!1I.  , '  fF-r'@'                           EEOMN         RJC
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
-4                               lN4o Cl,Jt  - -8o' 
~~~~~~~-            /      tokAfU I2<Bhonwallpu _ r.rPSAHCeI.EWplATLo
'l..J olnori  ...d~~~~~~~~' o
~~~   -I.-~W-             L
!               umf :rh '1 WP1ihe-LA ALNAR-           PUNAB PROVINE A'  D
-32'          ,-. '*LTAN                             PUNA FOREST     SETO
/X * .                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
w~~~~~POIC - Hi'     lkaI  'Sh.                    r  Ielikup FaPS
/ -51,6IBHAJWALPUR  i                 c                _____________
X-WES,)F. RO;XIanphO ,; :             I            /ETI   1FD4G;IIRIS.R, OET
/     .  .  *~'  -                   'I.        LI]  SEMI AIdD PANGEL.AND IT)  I AGRICLTURE 
J    41  /AIAA KHh0-..           |j  XC               : inNVFE
o M~~~~~~~1 t, -, , ,.  A-                          S
,_               -. ;                     AL'N ON  iEIER lCu  FORESTI E 
SINDH  !   s ' ~~~~~~BAAWAU                       Rb EBIINEL FOESII   2
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L1.          IRUIN   D ,IVISLIONADTIUBAL  B.LOUNFARIEST
BALOCHISTRANIYA (A  ICOlNvHC
KILO0ETERS- - -PDISTINCT BOUNDARIES
!A                                L    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
R Thn bovnolor,a, cclon,, clrnm ,,noton, ono cny othIr mIomotnno
o hoownooIpon h  ccco o Imply4.oon httort ofTh.Worfd8ocn  RIVERS
/      Gncup, cn IOMlne,V on hhr legPl AoKIS cfN                        - cny0-My, 00 cny
,  700  0d0r,,t01oI 00 00000 u00 oPUoBh                  PROVIN 72
DECEMBER 194 S



IMAGING
Report No.:        24246
Type:     ICR



