Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2747 PAK
                        Development Credit Agreement
                 (Punjab Forest Sector Development Project)
                                   between
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated July 27, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2747 PAK
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Province of
Punjab (hereinafter called Punjab) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to Punjab the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and Punjab;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The §General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (c)   "PFD" means the Punjab Forest Department;
      (d)   "PFRI" means the Punjab Forest Research Institute of
the PFD;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (f)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
commencing July 1 and ending June 30.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
Page  3
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgement of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Chairman, Planning and Development
Board, Punjab is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Punjab to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of Punjab therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Punjab to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Punjab in accordance with its standard budgetary
procedures.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by Punjab pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made; and
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested, including a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
Page  5
                   the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Punjab will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)         that Punjab shall have set the level of subsidy
at no more than 75% of seedling production cost; and
      (b)   that the PC-1 documents with respect to the Project
shall have been approved by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC).
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been
 duly authorized or ratified by Punjab, and is legally binding
upon Punjab in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in the Economic
Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
                   Islamabad
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                   By  /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By  /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                 South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  7
(1) Civil works                 1,380,000          80%
(2) Afforestation                 980,000          90%
    and field works
(3) Vehicles, equip-            1,830,000          100% of foreign
    ment and materials                             expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures (ex-
                                                   factory cost) and
                                                   80% of local ex-
                                                   penditures for
                                                   other items pro-
                                                   cured locally
(4) Consultants'                3,090,000          100%
    services
(5) Training                    3,330,000          100%
(6) Incremental                 3,860,000          80% in FY 96 and
    staff and                                      FY 97, 60% in
    operating costs                                FY 98 and FY 99,
                                                   and 40% in FY 2000
                                                   and  thereafter
(7) Unallocated                 1,530,000
                                _________
         TOTAL                 16,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Incremental staff and operating costs"
means the cost of additional staff of PFD employed exclusively
for the Project, and the cost of operation and maintenance of
offices, vehicles and equipment used for the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 200,000, may be made in respect of Categories
1 through 6 on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the performance
of the forestry sector in Punjab.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
Page  8
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Institutional Support
1.    Carrying out an in-depth study of human resources in the
forest sector, and provision of technical assistance and
training for PFD staff.
2.    Strengthening PFD's research and monitoring and evaluation
capabilities through the provision of equipment, training,
technical assistance and operating funds therefor.
Part B:     Farm Forestry
1.    Strengthening the extension capability of PFD for the
purpose of expanding private sector participation in the
development of sustainable supplies of wood and wood products.
2.    Provision of technical assistance, operating funds and
other facilities to PFD for the purpose of developing and
implementing a program for broadening private sector
participation in wood markets.
3.    Increasing PFRI research capabilities for the purpose of
improving the availability of superior planting material.
4.    Undertaking species/variety trials and improving
silvicultural practices on farm lands.
Part C:     Scrub Forests and Rangelands
1.    Rehabilitation of about (i) 21,400 ha of range and scrub
forests in two regions of Punjab (Pothwar and Thal) and (ii)
other selected areas, through the planting of seedlings of
multipurpose trees and shrubs raised in local nurseries, the
introduction of rotational and deferred grazing systems and the
creation of ponds for the watering of livestock.
2.    Establishment of community organizations in about 100
villages for the purpose of introducing participatory planning
and management systems.
3.    Increasing applied research on fodder trees and shrubs,
range systems ecology, feed quality and related social and
economic themes.
Part D:     Irrigated Plantations
1.    Carrying out an inventory of biodiversity in public sector
plantations of Punjab.
2.    Carrying out of base line studies and preparation of
management plans for priority plantations, including inter alia
environmentally and financially sustainable private sector
involvement in plantation management.
3.    Implementation of a pilot management and rehabilitation
plan for each of the three representative plantations of
Punjab's agroecological zones.
                               *      *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
Page  9
through 6 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
5,300,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  10
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  11
