Report No. PID10866
Project Name             COLOMBIA-Higher Education - Improving
Access
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Tertiary education (100%)
Project ID               P074138
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO
EDUCATIVO - ICETEX
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO
EDUCATIVO - ICETEX
Student Loan Institute (Instituto Colombiano
de Credito Educativo y
Estudios Tecnicos en el Exterior, ICETEX)
Address: Carrera 3A No. 18-32 Piso 2
Contact Person: Mrs. Marta Lucia Villegas
Directora General - ICETEX
Tel: (571) 284 4081/334 4515
Fax: (571) 286 6257
Email: mlvillegas@icetex.gov.co
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION (MEN)
Address: Can Avenida El Dorado, Bogota
D.C., Colombia
Contact Person: Mr Javier Botero, Vice
Minister of Education
Tel: (571) 315 7777
Fax: (571) 222 4676
Email: jbotero@mineducacion.gov.co
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO PARA EL DESARROLLO
DE LA CIENCIA Y LA TECNOLOGIA -
COLCIENCIAS
Address: Transv. 9a. Bis #132-28,
Bogota D.C., Colombia
Contact Person: Dra. Margarita Garrido,
Directora General
Tel: (571) 625 8280
Fax: (571) 625 1788
Email: mgarrido@colciencias.gov.co
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        November 20, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 13, 2002
Bank Approval Date       December 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
This section builds upon the sector study "Colombia: Tertiary Education,
Paving the Way for Reform", Report # 23935 CO, April 2002.



Background:
Colombia has a long, rich tradition in tertiary education in Latin America
dating back over a century. The privilege of attaining tertiary education
was reserved for the wealthy and secondary school served primarily as a
preparation for tertiary education. But with the passage of Ley 30 in
1992, the tertiary sector was modernized so that today, Colombia has a
relatively well diversified tertiary education system with both public and
private provision of tertiary education in university and non-university
institutions. Additionally, Colombia has experimented with a variety of
quality assurance mechanisms to improve the sector and has also, in
accordance with best practices, re-prioritized education spending so that
public expenditures on tertiary education are approximately 16 percent of
total public education expenditures. The last two decades have brought
fundamental changes in the Colombian society and in the context of the
Colombian tertiary education sector:
Continued and progressive development of primary and secondary education
have produced a substantially expanded pool of candidates for tertiary
education. In 1988, only 44 out of 100 children completed secondary
education. A decade later, this share increased to 63, significantly
increasing the demand for tertiary education. These potential students
and their families - believing in the right to equal opportunities -
expect the State to secure access to quality, tertiary education.
However, in the same time-span the continuation rate from secondary to
tertiary education nearly halved - from around 60 percent in the late
1980s to 37 percent in 1999 and 2000.
Emergence of a global, knowledge-based economy has become a driving force
pushing for tertiary education reform. The demands of the labor market
for technology and the speed with which technology changes, required - and
requires now even more - a growing pool of flexible workers that have the
skills to select, adapt, and apply existing technologies and remain
active, lifelong learners. Trade-liberalization and the introduction of
skill-biased technological change have strengthened the value of tertiary
education. In Colombia, workers with tertiary education was the only group
to experience a wage increase in the last 10 years. A worker with
tertiary education typically earns 2.4 times more than a worker with
secondary schooling, which exceeds the level found in most other
countries. The private sector sites the scarcity of skilled workers as
the largest obstacle to innovation and it is therefore a major obstacle to
a more dynamic Colombian economy.
Thirty-eight years of civil war has brought about intolerance and social
disintegration and has, within the universities, led to frequent
shutdowns, interruption of classes, and a hostile atmosphere that is
neither conducive to learning nor to the spread of democratic values.
The sector's structural weaknesses were further compounded by the worst
economic recession in Colombia in over 60 years which culminated in 1999
with an economic retraction in GDP of -4.5 percent. While recent figures
show a modest recovery in 2001 and 2002, the decline influences nearly all
other areas of the economy. The gains that were made in terms of poverty
reduction since the 1970s have been partially lost. The crisis has also
had a negative impact on education at all levels. The National Planning
-2 -



Department estimates that enrollment of 7-11 year old children from the
poorest families declined from 87.3 percent in 1996 to 83.2 percent in
1998. In tertiary education, the crisis resulted in a most unfortunate
reversal from an increase in entrants to tertiary education to a decline
amounting to 100,000 students during the three years of crisis and perhaps
a decrease in the quality and relevance of programs as well.
The proposed project in tertiary education fits well into the overall Bank
and Country Assistance Strategy as well as the Government strategy for
improving the entire sector. Currently, the Bank has seven active
projects in Colombia that seek to improve the access to and quality of
primary and secondary education, improve retention at these levels,
provide support to at risk youth, aid institutional strengthening, and
build capacity. The Bank has had a long standing commitment to provide
technical and financial support to the education sector beginning with its
first education project in 1968, and has made the development of human
capital through education a central priority in the Country Assistance
Strategy for Colombia. A tertiary system that functions well has the dual
function of satisfying demand for advanced human capital from all sectors
as well as of being a crucial element for improving lower levels of
education by providing qualified teachers, innovation, etc.
Government Strategy:
The Government strategy for tertiary education is to increase the number
of students enrolled in technical, technological, and professional
programs in Colombia, favoring those with limited income and directing
them towards programs in high demand by the productive sector. The
government plans on meeting this general objective through the following
activities:
developing a broader based student credit (loan) system to assist
financing tuition, especially for poorer students;
improving research capacity by providing incentives for doctoral students
and young faculty to engage in research that is relevant for economic and
development needs of Colombia;
improving relevance by developing a mechanism that will identify programs
with strong linkages to the labor market and that meet regional needs;
improving the quality and relevance of tertiary education through a
variety of mechanisms, such as (i) expanding and improving the
accreditation system, (ii) developing and administering exit examinations,
(iii) improving the current Management Information System so students and
their families can be better informed about the quality, costs, employment
outcomes, etc. of the various tertiary education institutions, (iv)
reforming the current legal framework to stiffen the requirements for
creating programs, and (v) creating new standards to better characterize
the four types of tertiary education institutions; and
strengthening institutional capacity through the use of a management
information system, through improved legal tools, and through better
articulation between primary, secondary, and tertiary education.
The Government of Colombia has made progress in some of these areas
already. For example, laws have been enacted to require the design and
implementation of certain elements of a quality assurance system.
-3 -



Measures taken thus far include accreditation of programs, rooted in
self-evaluation and site visits, the development of an exit exam in
mechanical engineering and health, and setting minimum standards for a
limited number of programs. The Government plans to expand their quality
assurance mechanisms to include all programs and institutions. In the
area of access, ICETEX has a limited number of grants and loans available
targeted at the very poor. It is hoped, with World Bank assistance, to
expand this so that access will be expanded to those least likely to
attend tertiary education. In the areas of governance and finance,
efforts in capacity building of the agencies regulating the tertiary
education sector will be undertaken.
The Government anticipates that as a result of implementing their strategy
they will achieve the following results: an increase in coverage for low
and middle income population between the ages of 10 - 22 years old;
improved quality; higher incomes for those receiving student aid; improved
retention rates in tertiary education; and improved output in the number
of Doctoral candidates and their research output.
The World Bank has been an active partner in this strategy. The World
Bank co-financed and planned along with the government (DNP and ICFES) and
the universities (ASCUN) a policy workshop in January, 2002 in Bogota. The
workshop contributed to the emerging sectoral consensus for reforms. In
the months prior to the workshop, the Bank team conducted background
assessments, and a series of policy papers were commissioned from relevant
experts. Economic Sector Work for the sector has been completed and
released by the government for public dissemination (Report # 23935 CO).
This work brought into focus the main issues that Colombia must address to
achieve the progress it seeks in the sector. The recommendations from the
sector work are: (i) ensure clear and progressive governance; (ii)
induce and assure quality; (iii) provide financing for equitable and
expanded access; and (iv) promote strategic levels of education.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve the tertiary education sub
sector's response to society's needs for high quality human capital that
will enhance Colombia's competitiveness in the global market. The project
will make the Colombian tertiary education system more responsive to
demand, and promote greater equity and quality in the preparation of
tertiary education graduates. It is expected that the project will
accomplish the following:
Increase Equity by redesigning and expanding the student loan scheme to
enable needy but qualified students to attend (i) undergraduate
university education of good quality and relevance, and (ii) tertiary
level technical and short cycle programs of high relevance for skill
enhancement.
Improve Quality by establishing competitive grants to (i) improve
Post-graduate programs in Colombia, and (ii) encourage talented young
Colombians to pursue advanced degrees.
Support Coherence and Efficiency by (i) enhancing the legal and technical
framework, (ii) consolidating and organizing the Quality Assurance System
in a manner that promotes quality enhancement and institutional
commitment, and (iii) building capacity for strategic planning and
management in the Ministry of Education and other governing bodies.
- 4 -



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has brought non-negligible value added in the Banks' three
strategic areas of operation: technical assistance, consensus building and
lending. With regard to technical assistance, the Bank possesses and has
access to the best international experience in higher education reform,
including financing reform. The team has assisted the borrower on all
levels, from the scope and objectives of the project to the technical
details of designing instruments. Especially, the value added has been in
the sectoral approach promoted by the Bank and the project experience with
student loans in the region. The TA has resulted in an ESW and eight
background papers. With regard to consensus building, the team has
encouraged information sharing and discussions with sector stakeholders,
which could be an important step for sustainability of undertaken
reforms. Specifically, the Bank hosted, along with the government, a
two-day, high-level workshop for key stakeholders to discuss how to
improve access, quality and responsiveness of the Tertiary Education
system. With regard to lending, the World Bank would - if the proposed
project is implemented - supply funds for an investment that the
government of Colombia would not have been able to undertake without
either reducing funding to basic education or jeopardizing its goal of
maintaining a sustainable fiscal deficit.
4. Description
The needs of the tertiary education system would be supplied by a spectrum
of strategies ranging from: (i) expanding and improving the provision
through a direct supply-side investment to (ii) stimulating demand by a
student loan project. Because Colombia has many of the elements of a well
functioning market for tertiary education, the project will (iii) follow
an intermediate strategy, which will strengthen the government's
legitimate role in setting the framework for the sector, stimulate demand
and address a critical bottleneck in quality. Therefore the project has
three aegis:
Reach equitable and expanded access to relevant study programs of good
quality. The project seeks to increase the access of youth from lower
socioeconomic strata by expanding tertiary education enrollment through a
targeted student aid scheme. The choice to support a student aid scheme
stems from its implications not only for access, but also for equity and
quality. Furthermore the student aid program will be targeted to
accredited and pertinent study programs which will include short cycle
technical programs and post-secondary education offered by Esculelas
Normales.
Improve quality in tertiary education by expanding post graduate programs.
The project will address the problem of low post-graduate output through
providing loans for graduate study and competitive grants for excellence
which will encourage talented, young Colombians to pursue advanced
degrees, and improve quality by stimulating competition for building
excellent graduate programs.
Improve coherence and efficiency in tertiary education. The project will
address several critical elements in the governance system of the sector
to assure high quality, relevant, and efficient expansion in the sector
and improve sectoral articulation with the productive sector. Specifically
the project will: (i) establish a Labor Market Observatory (LMO); (ii)
strengthen the Quality Assurance system; and (iii) articulate government
agencies involved in regulating tertiary education, provide technical
- 5 -



assistance for adjusting the legal framework, and build capacity for
monitoring and evaluation.
A.Equity in Access, Student Aid
l.Investment in student-aid
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
B. Doctoral Training
l.Support for Doctoral Programs
C. Institutional Strengthening
l.Labor Market Observatory
2. Improving institutional capacity to formulate and       implement
policy
3. Improve and Strengthen the Higher Education Information Management
System, SNIES
D. Project Management
E. PPF Repayment
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $93.11
IBRD $200.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $293.11
6. Implementation
Implementation period: The project would be implemented over a six year
period.
Implementing agencies: The project will be carried out by ICETEX, MEN,
and COLCIENCIAS. Each institution will have a small unit to coordinate the
activities related to the component it is in charge of.
Project management: ICETEX will be responsible for the overall
implementation and financial coordination. Each implementing agency will
coordinate the implementation of the component for which it is
responsible. ICETEX will be responsible for the Student Loan component and
the Doctoral Student Loan part of this component. COLCIENCIAS will be
responsible for the development of the Doctoral Component (Institutional
Sub-projects) and MEN with the support of ICFES for the institutional
strengthening component.
Project oversight: ICETEX will be the main agency responsible for project
oversight.
Monitoring and Evaluation: In addition to continuous monitoring of the
project implementation and impact indicators the implementing agencies
will be responsible for: (i) preparing and submitting project
implementation reports every semester; The core coordination unit of the
Project will be responsible for designing the monitoring and evaluation
parameters and mechanisms. These parameters will be considered by each
executing unit during the information or design and application of
technical and financial monitoring tools for the execution of the
component under their responsibility, reporting the results of each
monitoring phase to ICETEX so that they become incorporated in the
Project's consolidated general report to be submitted to the World Bank;
- 6 -



(ii) carry out, with the Bank, an annual review of the progress made in
implementation;    (iii) conduct a mid-term and a final evaluation of the
project; and (iv) prepare the borrowers part of the Project Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) which should include assessment on the
sustainability of the loan and MSI components.
7. Sustainability
The main sustainability risk revolves around the financial solvency of the
student loan program. Repayment options and collection methods of student
loan schemes have traditionally been weak in many countries. However, the
scheme builds upon many years of domestic experience and adds recent
positive experience from a carefully designed student loans project in
Mexico. To counter this risk the scheme must assure that ICETEX keeps
both defaults and administrative costs within a reasonable minimum.
Another risk is related to the substantial autonomy of higher education
institutions. The project will become successful when the institutions
respond positively to the incentives provided for improving quality and
relevance of their study programs, enhancing faculty development programs,
and increasing cross subsidies (scholarships) for the neediest students.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has extensive experience in the region in higher education. An
overarching lesson for project design in higher education stands out:
fundamental changes to systems are accomplished by making the means of
funding support policy goals. Complementary investments may be necessary,
but it is difficult for these alone to promote deep-seated reform. The
project therefore takes a systematic approach to the entire higher
education sector by focusing more on the regulations, mechanisms and
institutions necessary for the best possible functioning of the sector
rather than on inputs to the sector. Regarding lessons for the project's
specific components:
Student loan schemes have in the past proven difficult to implement and
sustain successfully. The team has consulted a large number of official
reports and academic studies listed in the bibliography. Aside from the
need for mechanisms of deferred payments in developing countries to
improve coverage and equity, the documents emphasize the following
lessons:
Effective Targeting:
To reach the poor and lower middle-income groups, the financial aid scheme
must involve a certain level of subsidy, possibly indirectly financed by
cross-subsidies from better off students.
To assure impartial and uniform eligibility of financial aid, the
selection should be centralized.
Broad awareness of the existence of the program is key for target groups
to apply for aid and therefore an important element for reaching the
target group.
Financial Sustainability and High Repayment:
Credible and enforced mechanisms in case of non-repayment significantly
-7 -



reduce default rates.
Government agencies tend to be hampered by political concerns when
enforcing repayment rules.
Strong technical analysis of the financial viability is necessary for
sustainability in the design process as well as in the continuing
operation of the student loan scheme.
Strong leadership of the implementing agency is crucial for effective
management.
A continual commitment through the loan period from the borrower induces
the latter to graduate.
Sustainability is closely linked to sound financial management, which
significantly increases resilience to economic recessions.
Four current Millennium Science Initiatives in the region served as the
impetus for the Doctoral Training Component and gave rise to the following
recommendations:
Demonstration of best practice for supporting the best.
Autonomy in spending resources and diminished bureaucratic burdens is
crucial to making science effective.
Introduction of international practices of competitive funding in the
allocation of public resources to science and technology stimulates
excellence.
S&T Capacity should become one major part of a renewed emphasis on
improving tertiary education and innovation policy support.
Funds to research capacity building will often not leave lasting marks
unless the institutional strength of the training system is transformed.
The extent of brain drain can be reduced through a carefully designed
system inducing the best brains to remain in the country.
Governance:
A national vision for higher education expressed in a strategy paper is a
prerequisite for a sector with institutional coherence and well
articulated instruments.
The roles of the various agencies need to be clarified and differentiated
to increase efficiency.
For improvements in quality assurance:
Allowing the creation of private accrediting bodies/organizations would
lessen the burden on the CNA and allow more timely accreditation of
programs and institutions.
Accreditation criteria should rely less on input-based criteria and more
on process.
Accreditation mechanisms should span the entire tertiary sector and for
this reason, should include standards that make them responsive to the
needs of technical-oriented institutions.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  N/A
10. Contact Point:
-8-



Task Manager
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 6712
Fax: 202 522 0050
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



