Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23993
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION - IMPROVING ACCESS
PROJECT
Colombia, Venezuela, Mexico
Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2002)
Currency Unit = Pesos ($)
$1000 = US$0.359
US$1 = $2,783
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASCUN                   Asociaci6n Colombiana de Universidades
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CNDM                     Comisi6n Nacional de Doctorados y Maestrias
CE                       Centers of Excellence
CNA                      Consejo Nacional de Acreditaci6n
COLCIENCIAS              Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo de la Ciencia y la Tecnologia
DANE                     Departamento Adm inistrativo Nacional de Estadistica
DES                      Direcci6n de Educaci6n Superior
DNP                      Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
ECES                     Exdmenes de Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior
EMP                      Environmental Management Plan
EPP                      Emerging Post-Graduate Programs
ESW                      Economic and Sector Work
FEDESAROLLO             Fundaci6n para la Educaci6n Superiory el Desarrollo
FMR                      Financial Management Report
FNG                      Fondo National de Garantias
FODESEP                 Fondo de Desarrollo de Educaci6n Superior
GSE                      Graduate Schools of Excellence
GOC                      Government of Colombia
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
ICFES                    Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior
ICETEX                   Instituto Colombiano de Credito Educativo y Estudios Tecnicos en el Exterior
IDBIIADB                 Inter-Amencan Development Bank
HE                       Higher Education
LMO                      Labor Market Observatory
MEN                     Ministerio de Educacion Nacional
M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
MSI                      Millennium Science Initiative
NER                      Nuclei for Excellent Research
PCU                      Project Coordination Unit
QA                       Quality Assurance
SNIES                   Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior
S&T                      Science and Technology
TA                       Technical Assistance
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:     Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Manager:       Lauritz Holm-Nielsen



COLOMBIA
HIGHER EDUCATION - IMPROVING ACCESS
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              I1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        18
2. Financial                                                                        19
3. Technical                                                                        19
4. Institutional                                                                    20
5. Environmental                                                                    23
6. Social                                                                           23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  25
2. Critical risks                                                                   25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    26
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           27
2. Other                                                                             27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effedtiveness Analysis Summary          42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   52
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   53
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           65
Annex I 1: Targeting Mechanisms for Low Income Students                                 67
Annex 12: References                                                                    69
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
Higher Education - Improving Access
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: November 22, 2002                          Team Leader: Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada             Sector(s): Tertiary education (100%)
Country Director: Mark V. Hagerstrom             Theme(s): Education for the knowledge economy (P)
Project ID: P074138
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Project Financingr Data
[X] Loan    []Credit     [ ] Grant    [ ]Guarantee    [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): US$200.00 million
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: Z Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 7                        Years to maturity: 13
Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first 4 years, 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter.
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by period 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): customized
[ ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [ ]Caps/Collars:
-Finacn PaIU"m"Sore-                                        oa        :!,Foreigni       Total
BORROWER                                                     87.72           0.00         87.72
IBRD                                                        193.76           6.24        200.00
Total:                                                      281.48           6.24        287.72



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO - ICETEX
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE CREDITO EDUCATIVO - ICETEX
Student Loan Institute (Instituto Colombiano de Credito Educativo y Estudios Tecnicos en el Exterior, ICETEX)
Address: Carrera 3A No. 18-32 Piso 2
Contact Person: Mrs. Marta Lucia Villegas Directora General - ICETEX
Tel: (571) 284 4081/334 4515          Fax: (571) 286 6257           Email: mlvillegas@icetex.gov.co
Other Agency(ies):
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION (MEN)
Address: Can Avenida El Dorado, Bogota D.C., Colombia
Contact Person: Mr Javier Botero, Vice Minister of Education
Tel: (571) 315 7777          Fax: (571) 222 4676           Email: jbotero@mineducacion.gov.co
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA CIENCIA Y LA TECNOLOGIA - COLCIENCIAS
Address: Transv. 9a. Bis #132-28, Bogota D.C., Colombia
Contact Person: Dra. Margarita Garrido, Directora General
Tel: (571) 625 8280          Fax: (571) 625 1788           Email: mgarrido@colciencias.gov.co
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004        2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual      7.20     27.10      40.30      38.60      53.90      32.90
Cumulative     7.20      34.30      74.60     113.20     167.10     200.00
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2008
OCS PAt) Fam Rew M.h 2Y2
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and equity of the Borrower's Tertiary Education
system through sub sector's response to society's needs for high quality human capital that will enhance
Colombia's competitiveness in the global market. The project will make the Colombian tertiary
education system more responsive to demand, and promote greater equity and quality in the preparation
of tertiary education graduates. It is expected that the project will accomplish the following:
*    Increase Equity by redesigning and expanding the student loan scheme to enable needy but qualified
students to attend (i) undergraduate university education of good quality and relevance, and (h)
tertiary level technical and short cycle programs of high relevance for skill enhancement.
*    Improve Quality by establishing competitive grants to (i) improve Post-graduate programs in
Colombia, and (ii) encourage talented young Colombians to pursue advanced degrees.
*    Support Coherence and Efficiency by       (i) enhancing the legal and technical framework,      (ii)
consolidating and organizing the Quality Assurance System in a manner that promotes quality
enhancement and institutional commitment, and (iii) building capacity for strategic planning and
management in the Ministry of Education and other governing bodies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward the development objective and outputs will be monitored and assessed based on key
performance indicators shown in Annex 1. The key performance indicators for this project are:
Objectives          Output                                Indicators
Reach equitable  * Access to ternary education for     * Increased transition rate from Secondary education
access to relevant  academically qualified but financially  * Increased number of students obtaining loans
study programs of   needy students                     * More students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds
good quality      * More effective and financially       receiving aid
sustainale student loan and grant  * Increased coverage of tertiary education in lower
suogramsta e                          socio-economic groups
programs                           * Increased number of students enrolled in technical programs
* Decreased administration costs and default rate for student
loan program
Expand            * Cntical mass of excellence          * Increased number of post-graduate students in Colombian
post-graduate     * Reduction in Brain Drain              programs
programs                                                . Four rounds of competition
Improve coherence  * Labor Market Observatory to track  * Publication of unemployment rates and wages by discipline
and efficiency in   Graduates and market needs            and area
tertiary education  * Coherent and effective QA system  * Increased number of accredited and evaluated programs
* Articulated institutional and M&E   * Revision of Ley 30
arrangements
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 17107 CO, 10/15/97 Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
The CAS identified the following six strategic areas as important for Colombia: (p. 10, para. 20): (i)
promoting peace and development, (ii) promoting rural development, (iii) developing human capital,
(iv) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency, (v) improving infrastructure services, and (vi)
-3-



ensuring sustainable development. Taken together, these six strategic areas addressed the two main
objectives of the CAS, which were to: (a) achieve poverty reduction and social development, and (b)
achieve sustainable growth. The proposed project would support three of the six identified strategic
areas: (I) developing human capital, (2) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency, and (3)
ensuring sustainable development. Support for a tertiary education project in Colombia fits well into the
overall Bank and Country Assistance Strategy as well as the Government strategy for improving the
entire sector. Furthermore, the proposed project builds upon three recently completed World Bank
reports: Constructing Knowledge Societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education, the World Bank
Strategy for Science and Technology in Development, and Closing the Gap in Education and
Technology. The new CAS, scheduled for Board presentation on January 16, 2003, includes this student
loan project in its pipeline. As a rule, a project would not be brought to the Board until after the new
CAS was presented. This project is being put forth for consideration early given the need of the
Colombian Government to launch this important program to coincide with the beginning of the school
session in January. They have requested Bank commitment at this critical time and the assurances of
long-term funding for the program in order to enhance the participation of targeted low income students
and to get the program off to a successful start.
Developing Human Capital: The Colombia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (report no.
19805 dated November, 1, 1999) states that the original CAS goals of "expanding coverage and
improving the quality of [basic] education" is key to economic competitiveness and growth, reducing
poverty and inequity in income distribution, and building a peaceful society (p. 15, para. 46). This
statement is known to be true for all levels of education. (Tertiary Education - Lessons of Experience,
World Bank 1994). In recent years the World Bank has supported a number of education projects in
Colombia, such as a Rural Education Project and the Antioquia and Pasto Education projects, which
support decentralization in basic and secondary education, emphasizing quality, and efficiency. This
project will add to Colombia's advanced human capital by increasing access to quality tertiary education
at both university and non-university institutions for academically able but financially needy students
through an improved student aid system and by improving post-graduate programs in Colombia and
encouraging talented, young Colombians to pursue advanced degrees via competitive grants to
post-graduate programs.
Attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency: The project will improve effectiveness and
efficiency of the public student loan system through capacity building, supervision, and increased
demand side financing. Through introducing and financing improvements to the quality assurance system
in tertiary education, institutions will be compelled to become more responsive to demand from their
clients (students and their families) by improving the quality of their offerings. Several studies have
documented that quality assurance systems have caused institutions to give greater attention to issues of
effective teaching and learning, brought about improvements in degree completion rates and in
institutional management, strengthened strategic planning, and encouraged institutions to become more
responsive to changing needs (El-Khawas, et. al., 1998). Moreover, the increased demand side financing
from student loans will expose public education institutions to increased competition and thereby induce
greater responsiveness and efficiency.
Ensuring Sustainable Development:  "In the last decade, Colombia enjoyed clear improvements in
educational attainment, both in level and equity. However, there is an increasingly frustrating and
inequitable queue at the entrance of post-secondary education" (p. 26, Colombia Poverty Report 2002).
"in order to alleviate the impact of the current economic crisis on the poor, and at the same time, to
reduce structural poverty, and to establish the basis for sustainable economic development, human
capital will need to be expanded through continued efforts to improve systems for the provision of
-4-



education" (p. 2, para.5, Colombia CASPR). The proposed project will aid in improving the provision of
tertiary education by expanding equitable access and enhancing the responsiveness of the sector, thus
establishing a basis for sustainable development.
As a Sector Investment Loan the proposed project would be part of the lo'ng-term focus on education that
would improve the performance of the existing investments in human capital and provide the means for
additional investments, financed mostly by individuals rather than the government.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
This section builds upon the sector study "Colombia: Tertiary Education, Paving the Way for Reform",
Report # 23935 CO, April 2002.
Backg round:
Colombia has a long, rich tradition in tertiary education in Latin America dating back over a century.
The privilege of attaining tertiary education was reserved for the wealthy and secondary school served
primarily as a preparation for tertiary education. But with the passage of Ley 30 in 1992, the tertiary
sector was modernized so that today, Colombia has a relatively well diversified tertiary education system
with both public and private provision of tertiary education in university and non-university institutions.
Additionally, Colombia has experimented with a variety of quality assurance mechanisms to improve the
sector and has also, in accordance with best practices, re-prioritized education spending so that public
expenditures on tertiary education are approximately 16 percent of total public education expenditures.
Issues specific to tertiary education may be found in the section entitled "Main Sector Issues." The last
two decades have brought fundamental changes in the Colombian society and in the context of the
Colombian tertiary education sector:
Continued and progressive development of primary and secondary education have produced a
substantially expanded pool of candidates for tertiary education. In 1988, only 44 out of 100 children
completed secondary education. A decade later, this share increased to 63, significantly increasing the
demand for tertiary education. These potential students and their families - believing in the right to equal
opportunities - expect the State to secure access to quality, tertiary education. However, in the same
time-span the continuation rate from secondary to tertiary education nearly halved - from around 60
percent in the late 1980s to 37 percent in 1999 and 2000.
Emergence of a global, knowledge-based economy has become a driving force pushing for tertiary
education reform. The demands of the labor market for technology and the speed with which technology
changes, required - and requires now even more - a growing pool of flexible workers that have the skills
to select, adapt, and apply existing technologies and remain active, lifelong learners. Trade-liberalization
and the introduction of skill-biased technological change have strengthened the value of tertiary
education. In Colombia, workers with tertiary education was the only group to experience a wage
increase in the last 10 years. A worker with tertiary education typically earns 2.4 times more than a
worker with secondary schooling, which exceeds the level found in most other countries. The private
sector sites the scarcity of skilled workers as the largest obstacle to innovation and it is therefore a major
obstacle to a more dynamic Colombian economy.
Thirty-eight years of civil war has brought about intolerance and social disintegration and has, within the
universities, led to frequent shutdowns, interruption of classes, and a hostile atmosphere that is neither
conducive to learning nor to the spread of democratic values.
- 5 -



The sector's structural weaknesses were further compounded by the worst economic recession in
Colombia in over 60 years which culminated in 1999 with an economic retraction in GDP of -4.5
percent. While recent figures show a modest recovery in 2001 and 2002, the decline influences nearly all
other areas of the economy. The gains that were made in terms of poverty reduction since the 1970s have
been partially lost. The crisis has also had a negative impact on education at all levels. The National
Planning Department estimates that enrollment of 7-11 year old children from the poorest families
declined from 87.3 percent in 1996 to 83.2 percent in 1998. In tertiary education, the crisis resulted in a
most unfortunate reversal from an increase in entrants to tertiary education to a decline amounting to
100,000 students during the three years of crisis and perhaps a decrease in the quality and relevance of
programs as well.
The proposed project in tertiary education fits well into the overall Bank and Country Assistance Strategy
as well as the Government strategy for improving the entire sector. Currently, the Bank has seven active
projects in Colombia that seek to improve the access to and quality of primary and secondary education,
improve retention at these levels, provide support to at risk youth, aid institutional strengthening, and
build capacity (see list of projects in section D2). The Bank has had a long standing commitment to
provide technical and financial support to the education sector beginning with its first education project
in 1968, and has made the development of human capital through education a central priority in the
Country Assistance Strategy for Colombia. A tertiary system that functions well has the dual function of
satisfying demand for advanced human capital from all sectors as well as of being a crucial element for
improving lower levels of education by providing qualified teachers, innovation, etc.
A. Main Sector Issues: (further detail on the main sector issues presented in this section may be found in
the Bank's recent Education Sector Work, Colombia: Tertiary Education, Paving the Way for Reform,
Volume I: Policy Briefing, April 2002):
Growing demand for equitable access to tertiary education: Secondary education expanded rapidly in
the 1990s implying a growing potential demand for tertiary education. However, tertiary education
institutions have not expanded in a comparable way; a decade ago 55 percent of graduates from
secondary education continued to tertiary, while only 37 percent continued in 1999. However, Colombia
has not yet achieved equitable access to its tertiary education system. The fundamental reasons for
inequalities in the sector have to be found outside of the tertiary education system, in particular in the
basic education system, including early childhood education. In 1980, 134,000 (26 percent) graduates
from secondary school took the entry exam for tertiary education out of a cohort of 17 year-olds of
523,000 and were hence eligible for tertiary education. As of 2000, this had increased to 583,000 (60
percent) graduates of out of a cohort of 752,000 implying that the tertiary education sector currently
stands a better chance of improving the sector's equity than previously (ICFES and DNP data). The
substantial improvements in equity and efficiency in basic and secondary education in the 1990s are
creating an inequitable bottleneck at the gate of post-secondary education.
Inadequate Financing: In 1992, approximately two percent of the relevant age-cohort from the poorest
quintile was enrolled in some form of tertiary education compared to 20 percent of those in the wealthiest
quintile. As the education system expanded in the 1990s, the inequality in access to tertiary education
grew in absolute terms. The largest gains in coverage occurred in the fifth quintile where net coverage
rose from 23 percent to 40 percent. However, relative to the starting point, the highest growth rate took
place among the poorest, the first quintile, where the number of students expanded by 170 percent. Yet,
less than six percent of the 18-24 year-olds from the first quintile attend tertiary education institutions
and overall coverage is just 15 percent. This evolution, of increasing access disparities, corresponds to
the international experience in countnes that have introduced or raised fees and where no effective or
well-targeted student aid mechanism exists. Concurrently, the growing potential demand has increased
-6 -



competition for entry into the less-expensive public sector, increasing the incidence of rationing. The
severe economic recession and the fiscal adjustments in the last four years have reduced both the
treasury's and individual households' ability to invest in tertiary education. Public institutions have
increasingly shifted their revenue base towards cost-recovery; as of 2000, 22 percent of revenues came
from students, which is unique among the large countries in the region. As a consequence, the number of
entrants into tertiary education decreased from a high of over 256,000 in 1997 to just over 200,000 in
1999, a decline of 19 percent. Consequently, students from lower socioeconomic strata who do not have
access to high quality (i.e. private) secondary education and who cannot afford preparation courses, lose
out. The current inequity will have a negative impact in the future, as the high pecuniary gains from
tertiary education imply that the existing difference in access translates into high income inequality in the
future. Improving access to tertiary education for lower and middle-income groups is therefore an
important remedy to mitigate future inequalities
Relevance is low and Colombia has unbalanced enrollment in both Technical and Graduate Education.
Unemployment in Colombia rises with education levels until secondary education, where unemployment
is over 20 percent, and then falls slightly to around 18 percent for workers with tertiary education.
International experience from Chile and Venezuela, as well as the little evidence available for Colombia,
suggests that the employment prospects of tertiary graduates depends upon the type of tertiary education
acquired. Graduates from Colombian technical institutions seem to experience difficulties finding a job
after graduation due to the low relevance of skills taught and the inferior quality of some of the
educational institutions. Such labor market outcomes suggest that the present system is failing to respond
to the needs of the country. Given the expansive growth Colombia experienced during the beginning of
the last decade, it would be expected that enrolment in technical institutions would have also risen but
only 11 percent of Colombian undergraduates are enrolled in these institutions. This compares to 27
percent in Chile and 25 percent in OECD countries. A similar low priority to technical disciplines are
apparant in enrolment in graduate programs where, in 1996, less than 15 percent of students at the
Master's level were enrolled in the natural sciences, engineering, and agricultural sciences, compared to
34 percent for the LAC region, and 39 percent for the US.
At the graduate and post graduate levels domestic capacity is very modest, especially in the sciences and
engineering. Data from ICFES/SNIES show that in 1999, there were a total of 46,106 students enrolled
in graduate programs with only 4,341 (9.4%) enrolled in master's programs and 192 (0.4%) enrolled in
Doctoral level studies. The yearly production of PhDs is one (1) per one-million inhabitants, among the
lowest for the region's larger countries, and severely limits Colombia's R&D and technological
capacities, and raises concerns as to the availability of qualified candidates to replace current faculty
members in tertiary institutions as they retire. Public institutions have assumed the main responsibility for
educating PhD-students, with seven out of ten doctoral candidates attending public universities. In
addition to low output of graduate and post-graduate degree holders, evidence suggests that Brain drain is
a very serious issue in Colombia. Carrington and Detragiache (1999) estimated Brain Drain based on
1990 US Census data for US immigrants by education level and found in almost all cases, individuals
with tertiary education formed the highest percentage of immigrants. More recent reporting on brain
drain from Colombia suggests that the Colombian economy has suffered a substantial loss of advanced
human capital. While no systematic data is available it was estimated in 1999 that approximately 1.1
million Colombians had left the country and that the Colombian-American community, which numbered
over 430,000, is rapidly growing.
Fragmented and Underdeveloped Quality Assurance System: There are a number of government
agencies involved in the quality assurance system for tertiary education: While the Ministerio de
Educaci6n Nacional (MEN) and the Direcci6n de Educaci6n Superior (DES) regulate tertiary education
in Colombia by formulating the policies, plans, programs, and objectives for the sub-sector, with respect
- 7-



to QA, the two government organizations having the largest role are the'lnstituto Colombiano para el
Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES) and the Consejo Nacional de Acreditaci6n (CNA). ICFES:
(i) supervises tertiary education institutions and assures that they operate in compliance with the
objectives set out in the regulations; (ii) collects, analyzes, and disseminates information concerning
tertiary education via the National tertiary education Information System; and (iii) supports the Ministry
and the Consultative Commission in the accreditation and approval process of teaching institutions
through Acreditacion Previa. The CNA is responsible for the design and approval of accreditation
mechanisms of tertiary education programs. All types of tertiary institutions may apply for accreditation.
In addition to ICFES and the CNA, the Comision Nacional de Doctorados y Maestrias (CNDM)
evaluates and approves graduate and post-graduate programs; Consejo Nacional de Educacio'n Superior
(CESU) works with MEN to develop tertiary education regulations, procedures, and mechanisms to
evaluate the quality of tertiary education; and the Comision Consultiva de Instituciones de Educaci6n
Superior serves as a consultative body to the Ministry in matters related to the creation of new tertiary
education  institutions, the  expansion  of existing  institutions, and  the  transformation  of
technical/technological institutions into university institutes.
There are also a variety QA mechanisms. Some apply to institutions, some to programs (both
undergraduate and graduate) and some to individuals and they range from simple registration of programs
to full-blown "Accreditation of Excellence." Despite the positive impacts the QA system has had on the
tertiary education sector, there are some underlying problems: (i) the number of accredited programs is
quite small, and (ii) there seem to be many QA organizations doing similar things, or the same
organization attempting to carry out many different functions
Ambiguous Governance: The following characteristics tend to fragment governance in Colombian
tertiary education: (i) an overlap in governance functions - the large number of government departments
and agencies that guide and regulate tertiary education are not well articulated and often overlap in their
functions, resulting in a lack of clarity in the roles of the governing agencies and duplication of
responsibilities; (ii) a tendency to create additional institutions/mechanisms to address new problems
rather than reform existing institutional structures; (iii) a lack of transparency in the selection of
members to policy design and oversight organizations where selection is not guided by clear criteria and
appointments are often politically motivated impacting institutional autonomy; and (iv) a lack of a
coherent sector plan which has resulted in the proliferation of similar disciplines, insufficient graduates
from technological programs, and the concentration of institutions in Bogota, Medellin, Cali and
Barranquilla. Also, innovation and meaningful reform in response to changes in the tertiary education
environment are inhibited because Rectors are subject to term limits.
The Monitoring and Evaluation system is inadequate. Provision of tertiary education has increasingly
been subject to market forces. This has especially been the case in Colombia, where private providers
enroll more than 2 out of 3 students. In order to facilitate smooth functioning of the market, information
has to be made available to students to allow them to choose the education program with highest quality
and relevance for a given tuition level. Currently, the national information system for tertiary education,
SNIES, collects a limited number of input indicators, but no systematic information exists on output or
impact. For instance, no systematic data on unemployment by discipline or on drop out rates exist.
Aside from few well-renowned universities, students lack information concerning the quality of the
education being bought which can lead to sub-optimal outcomes, such as inferior quality and reduced
enrollment.
-8 -



B. Government Strateg.y:
The Government strategy for tertiary education is to increase the number of students enrolled in
technical, technological, and professional programs in Colombia, favoring those with limited income and
directing them towards programs in high demand by the productive sector. The government plans on
meeting this general objective through the following activities:
* developing a broader based student credit (loan) system to assist financing tuition, especially for
poorer students;
* improving research capacity by providing incentives for doctoral students and young faculty to
engage in research that is relevant for economic and development needs of Colombia;
* improving relevance by developing a mechanism that will identify programs with strong linkages to
the labor market and that meet regional needs;
* improving the quality and relevance of tertiary education through a variety of mechanisms, such as
(i) expanding and improving the accreditation system, (ii) developing and administering exit
examinations, (iii) improving the current Management Information System so students and their
families can be better informed about the quality, costs, employment outcomes, etc. of the various
tertiary education institutions, (iv) reforming the current legal framework to stiffen the requirements
for creating programs, and (v) creating new standards to better characterize the four types of tertiary
education institutions; and
* strengthening institutional capacity through the use of a management information system, through
improved legal tools, and through better articulation between primary, secondary, and tertiary
education.
The Government of Colombia has made progress in some of these areas already. For example, laws have
been enacted to require the design and implementation of certain elements of a quality assurance system.
Measures taken thus far include accreditation of programs, rooted in self-evaluation and site visits, the
development of an exit exam in mechanical engineering and health, and setting minimum standards for a
limited number of programs. The Government plans to expand their quality assurance mechanisms to
include all programs and institutions. In the area of access, ICETEX has a limited number of grants and
loans available targeted at the very poor. It is hoped, with World Bank assistance, to expand this so that
access will be expanded to those least likely to attend tertiary education. In the areas of governance and
finance, efforts in capacity building of the agencies regulating the tertiary education sector will be
undertaken.
The Government anticipates that as a result of implementing their strategy they will achieve the following
results: an increase in coverage for low and middle income population between the ages of 10 - 22 years
old; improved quality; higher incomes for those receiving student aid; improved retention rates in tertiary
education; and improved output in the number of Doctoral candidates and their research output.
The World Bank has been an active partner in this strategy. The World Bank co-financed and planned
along with the government (DNP and ICFES) and the universities (ASCUN) a policy workshop in
January, 2002 in Bogota. The workshop contributed to the emerging sectoral consensus for reforms. In
the months prior to the workshop, the Bank team conducted background assessments, and a series of
policy papers were commissioned from relevant experts. Economic Sector Work for the sector has been
completed and released by the government for public dissemination (Report # 23935 CO). This work
brought into focus the main issues that Colombia must address to achieve the progress it seeks in the
sector. The recommendations from the sector work are: (i) ensure clear and progressive governance; (ii)
induce and assure quality; (iii) provide financing for equitable and expanded access; and (iv) promote
strategic levels of education.
-9-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The needs of the tertiary education system could be supplied by a spectrum of strategies ranging from: (i)
expanding and improving the provision through a direct supply-side investment to (ii) stimulating
demand by a student loan project. Because Colombia has many of the elements of a well functioning
market for tertiary education, the project will (iii) follow an intermediate strategy, which will strengthen
the govemment's legitimate role in setting the framework for the sector, stimulate demand and address a
critical bottleneck in quality. Therefore the project has three aegis:
Reach equitable and expanded access to relevant study programs of good quality. The project seeks to
increase the access of youth from lower socioeconomic strata by expanding tertiary education enrollment
through a targeted student aid scheme. The choice to support a student aid scheme stems from its
implications not only for access, but also for equity and quality. Furthermore the student aid program will
be targeted to accredited and pertinent study programs which will include short cycle technical programs
and post-secondary education offered by Esculelas Nornales.
Improve quality in tertiary education by expanding post graduate programs. The project will address the
problem of low post-graduate output through providing loans for graduate study and competitive grants
for excellence which will encourage talented, young Colombians to pursue advanced degrees, and
improve quality by stimulating competition for building excellent graduate programs.
Improve coherence and efficiency in tertiary education. The project will address several critical elements
in the governance system of the sector to assure high quality, relevant, and efficient expansion in the
sector and improve sectoral articulation with the productive sector. Specifically the project will: (i)
establish a Labor Market Observatory (LMO); (ii) strengthen the Quality Assurance system; and (iii)
articulate government agencies involved in regulating tertiary education, provide technical assistance for
adjusting the legal framework, and build capacity for monitoring and evaluation.
- 10-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
§            componen\ t 'r'l' {w~ <   t  i  t~ _-XIndicative,   Bank-       %of
ee   1  Component'>     < s 1ff t i Costs   of    financing   Bank-
.-           > -,          J  * > .  -   . -- (US$M)  -,Total  -,((US$M)  financing
A.Improved Equity in Access to Tertiary Education   252.14      87.6     176.92      88.5
I.Investment in student-aid (Loans and Grants)
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
B. Support for Doctoral Programs                     25.00       8.7      15.00       7.5
C. Institutional Strengthening                        7.09       2.5       4.59       2.3
l.Labor Market Monitoring Program
2. Improving institutional capacity to formulate and
implement policy
3. Improve and Strengthen the Higher Education
Information Management System, SNIES
D. Project Management                                 1.40       0.5       1.40       0.7
E. PPF Refinancing                                    0.09       0.0       0.09       0.0
Total Project Costs  285.72    99.3    198.00       99.0
Front-end fee    2.00       0.7      2.00        1.0
Total Financing Required  287.72     100.0     200.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Some policy reforms have been undertaken since 1994 through changes to the laws governing tertiary
education.  Additional, complementary legislative changes for tertiary education governance are
presently being discussed and negotiated. The framework being designed for tertiary education would
include policy tools to reinforce the concepts of increased equity, quality, and relevance. '
The expanded and improved student loan system builds on the existing student loan organization,
ICETEX, while introducing new incentives. During the project, ICETEX's experience and expertise will
be utilized while its capacity continues to be expanded and strengthened. ICETEX will establish
strategic partnerships which will offer students an array of financing options, such as scholarships, credit
lines and short-term payment lines, with offices located on institutional grounds.  Institutional
partnerships will also be established with territorial entities to facilitate access to tertiary education by
those from socially disadvantaged groups.
With regard to Doctoral Programs, this component would seek to shift allocation mechanisms for
government funding to tertiary education from an historical-budget allocation mechanism to a merit
based, competitive mechanism and to develop an adequate network of Colombian postgraduate programs.
Additionally, a major extension of the existing monitoring and evaluation system, through the formation
of a Labor Market Observatory will require institutional reform within the system of national indicators
for tertiary education, SNIES, and allow the dissemination of labor market information and the tracking
of tertiary graduates. Furthermore, a more comprehensive quality assurance system will clarify and
- 11 -



separate the responsibilities of the governance institutions involved in the current accreditation system. It
will put forward a system wide strategy for improved capacity of accreditation corresponding to the
desired level of accreditation (program or institutional).
3. Benefits and target population:
The expected benefits of the project will be the integration of all the components into a unified
framework for the tertiary education sector, which focuses on equity, quality, governance and finance,
and which can be flexible to changing needs. This will in turn bring about broad economic and social
benefits which are well recognized as accruing from quality tertiary education. More and better-qualified
graduates from short cycle courses, undergraduate and graduate levels, especially in relevant fields, can
increase and improve the pool of human resources and provide knowledge creation and adaptation, which
in turn can enhance production, productivity, and competitiveness.
The Student Aid component will promote expansion, equity and quality of tertiary education by allowing
meritorious students from the poorest backgrounds to receive a mix of grants (25 percent) and
non-subsidized loaris (75 percent) for studying at the tertiary level and allow middle income students to
receive loans and therefore defer the cost of education until the benefits from the education start flowing
to the student once in the productive sector. The students will be directed towards pertinent and
accredited study-programs.
The Support to Doctoral Programs component seeks to improve the stock of advanced human capital at
the postgraduate level, thus improving one of the primary inputs to tertiary education, its faculty.
Furthermore, it will provide top Colombian researchers with adequate resources including a critical mass
of the most talented young people, to induce them to remain in the country and strengthen the national
innovation system through a consolidation of Colombian centers of excellence.
The Institutional Strengthening component will: (i) improve tertiary education's linkages to the labor
market and improve the quality of their offerings through the creation of the Labor Market Observatory (
Observatorio Laboral) which will provide the incentive for institutions to provide high quality, relevant
programs that will lead to employment of their graduates; (ii) improve and expand the current QA
system to bring it into line with internationally recognized standards and to increase the number of
accredited programs thus improving overall quality in the sub-sector. Improvements to the QA system
will allow stakeholders access to reliable information on HE institutions, the relevance of their degrees,
the effectiveness and efficiency in resource allocation, and institutional management capabilities; and
(iii) build capacity in the Ministry of Education and other governing bodies to improve the framework for
tertiary education.
Targets: The project targets the following institutions and students:
Target institutions:
l.    For coherence and efficiency related initiatives: MEN, ICFES, CNA, CNDM and ICETEX
2.     For quality and relevance related initiatives: MEN, ICFES, CNA, CNDM and COLCIENCIAS,
and
a. institutions such as, universities, university institutions, technological institutions, and technical
training institutions, that have, or plan to have, undergraduate or short cycle programs in areas of
national priority and that want to attract students who are eligible for financial aid, and
- 12 -



b. institutions, such as, universities and centers of excellence which have formal agreement with
recognized universities, that provide PhD level programs.
Target students:
3.     For equitable access initiatives:
a. academically qualified but financially needy students who want to attend universities or technical or
technological institutions; and
b. talented young Colombians who qualify to study at the post-graduate level.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project would be implemented over a six year period.
Implementing agencies: The project will be carried out by ICETEX, MEN, and COLCIENCIAS.
Proiect management: ICETEX will be responsible for the overall implementation and financial
coordination, therefore the project coordibnation unit will be established with ICETEX. Each
implementing agency will coordinate the implementation of the component for which it is responsible.
ICETEX will be responsible for the Student Loan component and the Doctoral Financial Aid part of
Component Two. COLCIENCIAS will be responsible for the development of the Doctoral Component
(Institutional Sub-projects) and MEN with the support of ICFES for the institutional strengthening
component.
Project oversight: ICETEX will be the main agency responsible for project oversight.
Annex 2 describes the institutional arrangements for managing each component of the project.
Procurement arrangements: Procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 6. Each coordinating entity
will be responsible for the procurement management corresponding to the component under its
responsibility following the norms established by the World Bank. All regulations relating to this item
will be included in the respective operating manuals.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: All the resources coming from the loan will
be received and managed by ICETEX. For the purpose of the development of the activities provided in
components 2 and 3, agreements among the responsible entities will be established to transfer the
resources. The minutes of these agreements will be included in the Project Operating Manual.
The coordinators of each institution will be responsible for financial management, accounting and
financial and status reporting in meeting the goals regarding each component. These reports will be
referred to ICETEX, which will consolidate them to produce one report for the Project.
- 13-



Monitoring and Evaluation. In addition to continuous monitoring of the project implementation and
impact indicators, presented in Annex 1, the implementing agencies will be responsible for: (i) preparing
and submitting project implementation reports every semester; The core coordination unit of the Project
will be responsible for designing the monitoring and evaluation parameters and mechanisms. These
parameters will be considered by each executing unit during the information or design and application of
technical and financial monitoring tools for the execution of the component under their responsibility,
reporting the results of each monitoring phase to ICETEX so that they become incorporated in the
Project's consolidated general report to be submitted to the World Bank; (ii) carry out, with the Bank, an
annual review of the progress made in implementation; (iii) conduct a mid-term and a final evaluation
of the project; and (iv) prepare the borrowers part of the Project Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) which should include assessment on the sustainability of the loan and MSI components.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternatives were considered:
Comprehensive sectoral approach vs. student loan project only. The team opted for a comprehensive
sectoral approach. The alternative, whose only component would have been a student loan scheme, was
deemed unacceptable because it would not have addressed critical governance issues of responsiveness,
monitoring, quality and relevance, and it would not lead towards sustainable changes in the Colombian
tertiary education system. The sectoral approach reduces several risks related to the student aid
component: it mitigates the targeting problem by also including a grant system for the poorest students, it
links the student aid to relevant study programs of good quality, and it enables the sector to improve its
internal and external efficiency by improving the framework conditions and the M&E capacity. The
combination of supply and demand-side financing is justified because of past experience. World
Bank-financed higher education projects have historically emphasized supply-side financing initiatives.
Supply-side financing programs were frequently unsustainable in the long run, since the loans covered
temporary inputs. Demand-side financing through loans are more likely to have an economically
sustainable, positive impact on the sector, since the users will repay the funds at least partially.
Furthermore, supporting greater private financing through cost-sharing can counter political pressure for
increased expenditure on tertiary education and thereby maintain the current strong prioritization of basic
education. However, such an approach does not secure adequate attention to the framework conditions
and institutional regulations nor does the market in any part of the world finance advanced education
such as doctoral programs and advanced science and engineering programs. The team therefore supports
a combination of demand financing and financing of critical inputs to the sector.
Replenishment of the existing public student loan scheme vs. institutional development. The government
and the team favored the development of the existing Colombian student loan scheme building upon the
strong existing foundation and experience, while introducing a modern incentive scheme. Currently,
ICETEX, a state agency founded in 1952, assumes the predominant role for student loans. The
organization suffers from insufficient repayment rates, lacks liquidity and operates in a legal and political
environment with few incentives to innovation and effective management.
Participation of education institutions in loan scheme vs. exclusion. The team favored inclusion of the
education institutions in the loan scheme, since this has two advantages: (i) it opens the door for
cost-sharing with the education institutions, which stand to win from the expanded aid-possibilities due
to the increased revenues from tuition; (ii) the inclusion of education institutions increases the likelihood
- 14-



of repayment by (a) providing better credit-evaluation and tracking, since the education institution is the
best suited for evaluating the academic ability and because it interacts on a daily basis with the borrower,
and (b) the education institution often provides a social network for the graduate even after graduation,
which would increase the costs of non-servicing.
Selected eligibility vs. full availability. The team, moreover, considered a student loan scheme that
would provide loans to all students regardless of income bracket, institution and field of study. Although
this design exists in many developed countries, it was rejected. It would not adequately take advantage of
the possibilities for improvements in equity, relevance and quality made possible by the substantial
infusion of resources. Targeting low and middle income students was chosen for the following reasons:
(i) by targeting poor and middle income students, the chosen design actively seeks to advance the
participation of these income groups in the sector; and (ii) by prioritizing students, planners have an
instrument to promote selected groups of students, such as students from underdeveloped regions and
students enrolled in technical careers. However, provided the scheme in the future can obtain additional
private capital, it should aim for full availability of non-subsidized credits.
Non-subsidized loans vs. grants. The team was in favor of a limited grant-program partly financed by the
education institutions and partly by national budget resources, since the government, stakeholders and the
project team shared a strong preference for improving equity in access to higher education. This is based
on international experience from both developed and developing countries showing student loans tend to
have a limited impact on inequality, since low-income families tend to be less inclined to incur large
debts and are less informed about the returns to education. An analysis of accessibility by income
quintile, provided in Annex 4, supports the experience and finds that students from the lower half of the
income distribution profile with the non-subsidized credit line would have to pay from 36 percent to 212
percent of household income in tuition, effectively baring their access to higher education.
Funding PhD-students to study abroad vs. domestically. The team chose the latter in order to focus on
the development of domestic scientific capacity, although several World Bank and IDB projects in the
region have in the past provided credits to the top students to study abroad. These projects have brought
cutting-edge international knowledge to the countries, but it failed to develop domestic PhD-programs
and to adequately stimulate the National Innovation System. An analysis in Annex 4 shows that
domestic production of PhDs in terms of quantity in the past has been ten times as cost-effective as
foreign production.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Colombia                         Antioquia Education             S             S
Colombia                         Pasto Education                 S             S
Colombia                         Youth Development               S             S
Colombia                         Rural Education Project         S             S
Colombia                         Human Capital Protection        S             S
Colombia                         Magdalena Medio Regional        S            HS
Development
Argentina                        Higher Education Reform          S            S
(PRES)
Brazil                           Science and Technology           S            S
(PADCT IIE)
Chile                            Higher Education                 S            HS
(MECESUP)
Chile                            Millennium Science Initiative   HS            HS
(MSI)
Mexico                           Student Loan Program for         S             S
Private Universities (SOFES)
Mexico                           Knowledge and Innovation         S             S
Project
Venezuela                        Student Loan Program             S            U
Other development agencies
Financed by IADB
Colombia                         Reform of Education
Management
Colombia                         Scientific Research and
Technological Development
Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has extensive experience in the region in higher education. An overarching lesson for project
design in higher education stands out: fundamental changes to systems are accomplished by making the
means of funding support policy goals. Complementary investments may be necessary, but it is difficult
for these alone to promote deep-seated reform. The project therefore takes a systematic approach to the
entire higher education sector by focusing more on the regulations, mechanisms and institutions
necessary for the best possible functioning of the sector rather than on inputs to the sector. Regarding
lessons for the project's specific components:
Student loan schemes have in the past proven difficult to implement and sustain successfully. The team
- 16-



has consulted a large number of official reports and academic studies listed in the bibliography. Aside
from the need for mechanisms of deferred payments in developing countries to improve coverage and
equity, the documents emphasize the following lessons:
Effective Targeting:
*   To reach the poor and lower middle-income groups, the financial aid scheme must involve a certain
level of subsidy, possibly indirectly financed by cross-subsidies from better off students.
*   To assure impartial and uniform eligibility of financial aid, the selection should be centralized.
*   Broad awareness of the existence of the program is key for target groups to apply for aid and
therefore an important element for reaching the target group.
Financial Sustainability and High Repayment:
*   Credible and enforced mechanisms in case of non-repayment significantly reduce default rates.
* Government agencies tend to be hampered by political concerns when enforcing repayment rules.
*   Strong technical analysis of the financial viability is necessary for sustainability in the design process
as well as in the continuing operation of the student loan scheme.
*   Strong leadership of the implementing agency is crucial for effective management.
*   A continual commitment through the loan period from the borrower induces the latter to graduate.
*   Sustainability is closely linked to sound financial management, which significantly increases
resilience to economic recessions.
Four current Millennium Science Initiatives in the region served as the impetus for the Support for
Doctoral Program Component and gave rise to the following recommendations:
*   Demonstration of best practice for supporting the best.
*   Autonomy in spending resources and diminished bureaucratic burdens is crucial to making science
effective.
* Introduction of international practices of competitive funding in the allocation of public resources to
science and technology stimulates excellence.
*   S&T Capacity should become one major part of a renewed emphasis on improving tertiary education
and innovation policy support.
*   Funds to research capacity building will often not leave lasting marks unless the institutional strength
of the training system is transformed.
*   The extent of brain drain can be reduced through a carefully designed system inducing the best brains
to remain in the country.
Governance:
*   A national vision for higher education expressed in a strategy paper is a prerequisite for a sector with
institutional coherence and well articulated instruments.
*   The roles of the various agencies need to be clarified and differentiated to increase efficiency.
For improvements in quality assurance:
*   Allowing the creation of private accrediting bodies/organizations would lessen the burden on the
CNA and allow more timely accreditation of programs and institutions.
*   Accreditation criteria should rely less on input-based criteria and more on process.
*   Accreditation mechanisms should span the entire tertiary sector and for this reason, should include
- 17 -



standards that make them responsive to the needs of technical-oriented institutions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government is highly committed to the project. It has solicited the World Bank's assistance to design
the intervention with high priority and on fast track. The task team has detected a strong sense of
ownership in the Ministry of Education, Department of National Planning and the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit. At a Bank-Government seminar held in January 2002 and hosted by ASCUN,
consensus for improved governance and increased financial aid was reached. All stakeholders in the
sector realize the necessity for improvement in the functioning of the sector, and the Government
(ICFES) has spearheaded country-wide consensus building activities over the last two years. The newly
elected government has confirmed the country's strong commitment to the project and has urged the Bank
to present the project to the Board at the earliest convenience. It is expected that the new student aid
program will be in place at the beginning of the first semester of 2003.
The Colombian Government's general commitment to the sector began in 1992 with the passage of Ley
30 that sought to strengthen the higher education system. Several achievements stand out: (i) the creation
of a quality assurance system for the sub-sector that includes a number of mechanisms to ensure quality,
such as program registration, minimum standards of quality, Acreditacion Previa, and most importantly,
voluntary program accreditation based on self evaluation, site visits, and peer review; also, in 2001, exit
examinations were designed and administered in the areas of engineering and health; and (ii) the
creation of a legislative basis for reform, through several laws (Ley 30). These actions are in part a
response for a growing public demand for change and improvement within the sector and the realization
by the Government of Colombia that a better-educated work force is necessary to become competitive in
a knowledge based global economy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has brought non-negligible value added in the Banks' three strategic areas of operation:
technical assistance, consensus building and lending. With regard to technical assistance, the Bank
possesses and has access to the best international experience in higher education reform, including
financing reform. The team has assisted the borrower on all levels, from the scope and objectives of the
project to the technical details of designing instruments. Especially, the value added has been in the
sectoral approach promoted by the Bank and the project experience with student loans in the region. The
TA has resulted in an ESW and eight background papers. With regard to consensus building, the team
has encouraged information sharing and discussions with sector stakeholders, which could be an
important step for sustainability of undertaken reforms. Specifically, the Bank hosted, along with the
government, a two-day, high-level workshop for key stakeholders to discuss how to improve access,
quality and responsiveness of the Tertiary Education system. With regard to lending, the World Bank
would - if the proposed project is implemented - supply funds for an investment that the government of
Colombia would not have been able to undertake without either reducing funding to basic education or
jeopardizing its goal of maintaining a sustainable fiscal deficit.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
- 18 -



Two cost-effectiveness indicators were calculated:
1. Cost-effectiveness of the project's proposed intervention with combined grants and loans compared
to a pure grant: 4
2. Cost-effectiveness of the project's proposed intervention with domestic production of PhD's
compared to foreign production: 15
Annex 4 furthermore considers three issues: Economic rationale for public intervention, impact on
equity, and the financial sensitivity of the student aid component. It finds:Public intervention is justified
due to the lack of a market for student loans, externalities in tertiary education and fiscal savings.
1. Equity. The analysis shows that the project significantly increases the accessibility of tertiary
education for low-income students who otherwise could not have afforded to attend tertiary
education.
2. Financial sensitivity. The financial sensitivity analysis highlights that the sustainability crucially
depends upon the recovery rate, and to a lesser extent upon the completion rate of tertiary education
and macro-economic conditions, such as a stable real exchange rate, medium-level unemployment
rates and modest wage-increases.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The sustainability and solvency of the student loan program is the main financial issue. To avoid high
default rates, the system has been designed to give several institutions clear financial incentives for
recovering loans. In many developing countries, the student loan organization was supervised only by the
government, which did not give incentives to recover loans. Separating the overseeing and implementing
loan organization (ICETEX) from the loan-offering institutions (Education institutions and Cajas de
Compensacion), the latter will have a strong financial incentive for recovering of loans and efficient
management. The financial sustainability is also improved by providing grants to cover a portion of
tuition to low-income students, which lightens the servicing burden during the repayment period.
Furthermore, ICETEX has in the past been among the better performing student loan providers in the
region as measured by default rates and administration costs.
Fiscal Impact:
The macroeconomic fiscal impact of the project is assessed by comparing the project's direct budgetary
cost to the Government with the savings obtained through the improved schooling outcome of the
project. The fiscal savings stem from three sources: higher completion rates, substitution of public
education for private education, and increased enrolment into private tertiary education. Due to lack of
research on the relative size of these sources, the team estimated the fiscal savings in four different
scenarios. The fiscal savings varied from US$ 188.8 million to US$ 293.5 million. The fiscal savings
compare with a public outlay of US$ 87.72 million for the entire project.
3. Technical:
The technical assessment pertains to the student aid component, where a well-designed student loan
scheme is essential. During the project preparation process, the team emphasized care in developing a
well-functioning sector design that endows all participants with incentives to reach the objectives, hence
improvement in equity and access and financial sustainability of the student loan scheme. Assuring the
loan's terms and conditions, shared financial interest in recovering loans and targeting mechanisms were
in line with the scheme's objectives. These aspects have been examined on the basis of financial and
labor market projections, and studies of the targeting mechanism, as well as analyses of the institutional
and financial capacity of participating institutions. Moreover, the project develops the existing system
- 19-



and should as such be technically feasible for the participating organizations. All the analyses have been
carried out with technical support from national and international specialists. The various technical
documents that have been prepared during project preparation are in the project file (see Annex 8 for the
list of documents).
4. Institutional:
The Institutional Analysis has identified some fundamental  characteristics of the institutional
coordinations and institutional issues that will need special attention during the project implementation.
Compared to other countries in the region Colombia has a fairly large number of government
departments and agencies which guide and regulate the operation of the higher education system
(Ministry of Education, ICFES, CESU, CNA, etc.). But the multitude of agencies does not amount to a
well articulated governance system. In fact, the development of higher education in Colombia is
hampered by several governance issues.
There is a lack of clarity in the role of the various agencies, resulting in significant duplication of
responsibilities. For instance, both ICFES and the Department of Higher Education within the Ministry
of Education have authority for policy making and planning and their respective areas of responsibility
are ambigously defined. Colombia has a well established institution providing student loans, ICETEX,
that could expand student loan coverage, but it is characterized by a lack of efficiency caused by
complicated bureaucratic procedures that need to be improved. The new administration is planning to
transform ICETEX and is looking at new mechanisms for expanding loan coverage with private
participation in cooperation with ICETEX.
There have been several attempts in the past few years to develop a long-term vision for the future of
higher education in Colombia (Committee of the 40 Wise Persons, "Sintegraci6n" etc.), but successive
governments have had difficulties establishing a well formulated development plan. There has been a
lack of planning in terms of academic programs and geographical location of tertiary education
institutions, resulting in the proliferation of similar disciplines, insufficient enrollments in
technologically oriented programs, and a major concentration of institutions in Bogota, Medellin, Cali
and Barranquilla.
Despite the existence of a national accreditation agency (CNA), there is insufficient regulation of the
quality of most private tertiary institutions. In addition, there is little clarity in the definition of different
types of tertiary education institutions. For example, there are no obvious criteria to distinguish among
technology universities, technology institutes and technical institutes. There is limited, publicly available
information to help students and their families assess the performance of private institutions.
Even though public universities are predominantly funded by the state, they are not subject to strict
accountability mechanisms with respect to their use of public resources and the quality of their outputs.
The democratic election of rectors in public universities introduces significant political interference
which inhibit the capacity to innovate and undertake meaningful reforms in response to changes in the
tertiary education environment. Many private universities are run like family businesses, with very
limited institutional capacity.
4.1 Executing agencies:
ICETEX with MEN/ICFES AND COLCIENCIAS
4.2 Project management:
The administration and management of the project is headed by ICETEX, an institution that will act as
Project Manager in the framework of the functions assigned to the Committee created for such purpose.
- 20 -



This committee will have a board composed by the entities coordinating each component (MEN,
ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS), the National Planning Department-DNP- and ICFES, which will provide
advisory services and technical assistance. In addition, DNP will be responsible for maintaining the
budget portions to guarantee the execution of the project. Likewise, ICETEX will provide advisory
services to the coordinating entities in the execution of the project and it will integrate all relevant
information to be submitted in reports to the World Bank, based on the reports generated and delivered
by each coordinating unit.
A National Project Policies and Monitoring Council will be created with the purpose of guaranteeing the
implementation, execution and administration of the Project, along with a Management Committee,
whose mission will be to ensure the coordinated implementation of the project among the sector entities,
in such a way that the competitions and experience of each institution are acknowledged and respected
and that the execution of the commitments assumed by each entity under the Project is monitored:
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR POLICIES AND MONITORING(1)
|ICETEX (2)l
|        ~~~BOARD (3)
'~~~~~~ r
MEN-ICFS          *COLCIENCIAS
OPERATIONAL UNIT (4)        OPFRATIONAL UNIT (4)      OPERATIONAL UNIT (4)
INFORMATION              UNIVERSITIES COMPENSATION FUND BANKS  UNIVERSITIES
SYSTEM                 SISTEMA COOPERATIVO. MUNICIPALITIES  STUDENTS  I
STUDENTS
rI) Formed by MEN-DNP-ICETEX-COLCIENCIAS-ICFES
2) ICETEX - PROJECT MANAGEMENT
3) Formed by MEN-DNP-ICETEX-ICFES-COLCIENCIAS
(4) The operational unit within each implementing agency will be responsible for theu assigned component
National Policy and Monitoring Council
The National Policy and Monitoring Council will have the following functions:
*   Define and approve higher education policies associated with the Project
*   Coordinate the monitoring of the Project implementation and ensure that its objectives are met
*   Approve the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
*   Approve the adjustments required for the Project based on the implementation process
- 21 -



The National Policy and Monitoring Council will be composed of the following:
* Chair: MEN
* Technical Secretary: DNP
* Members: ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS, ICFES
Management Committee
This Comrnmittee will perform the following functions:
* Ensure that the institutions involved in the Project fulfill the functions and responsibilities assumed
in the framework of its execution
* 'Guarantee the execution of the established activities for each component
* Distribute Project resources coming from foreign credit annually among the different institutions
responsible for the corresponding components
* Distribute the resources of the Project annually among the different lines established in the Project,
based on regional equity principles
* Determine the criteria that should met by the student applicants regarding the different Project lines
* Determine the criteria that should be met by the educational institutions participating in the Project
* Select the Project beneficiaries and conduct the corresponding monitoring and follow-up
*   Create the National Quality Information System and assure its dissemination to the public, the
financial system and the educational entities
* Provide technical assistance to the agencies responsible for coordinating and implementing the
activities for the three described project components
* Submit status reports for the Project to the World Bank
This Committee will be a converging point for encounter, dialogue and coordination among the sectorial
entities involved in the Project:
* General Coordinator: ICETEX
* Component I Coordinator: ICETEX
*   Component 2 Coordinator: COLCIENCIAS
* Component 3 Coordinator: Ministry of Education
* Other members: ICFES and entities associated with the Labor Market Observatory and the DNP
Coordination Units
The institutional analysis shows that the institutions to be in charge of project implementation need to be
strengthened. As such, it is recommended that a progressive and gradual strategy be used for the
implementation of the Higher Education-Improving Access Project. The Government will modernize the
implementation agencies, seeking to contribute to the management efficiency and technical strengthening
of institutions involved in the project. This plan has been supported by the PHRD grant resources.
The project files contain the records of the study undertaken during project preparation, including the
description, scope, and justification of the proposed  modernization plan of ICETEX and other
institutions involved in project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out of the proposed organization and staffing of the
- 22 -



ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS, and MEN as well as the project implementation arrangements; both were
deemed satisfactory. A Project Operations Manual will include procurement procedures agreed to during
negotiations. No special procurement problems are anticipated while implementing the project. ICETEX,
COLCIENCIAS, and MEN will receive technical assistance from the Bank on procurement procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Executing Agencies, under the leadership of ICETEX including COLCIENCIAS and the
Ministry of Education have the institutional capacity and the human resources required for the
financial management area to be responsible for the project administration. In order to assure that
ICETEX will be fully capable to undertake the financial management responsibilities as the
project coordination unit, a detailed action plan was prepared and agreed with the counterparts to
be fully implemented by effectiveness. Since, the financial inanagement system for this Project is
not operative yet, the Bank will provide technical support and financing from the remaining
funds of the Project Preparation Advance (PPF) number P-380-CO, and from the Japanese Policy
and Human Development Program (PHRD) Grant Number TF051142 to assist the Borrower in
having such financial management system sufficiently operative by said Effectiveness Date. The
project would be audited annually by an independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank. Project
audit arrangements would also be supervised by Contraloria General. Details of all financial
arrangements may be found in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social issues relate to the ability to target the student loan program. Measures have been
put in place to ensure, to the extent possible, that loans go directly or through cross subsidy mechanisms
to the poorest, especially those who are currently excluded from, or drop out of, higher education because
they cannot pay for school.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 23 -



Prior to the ESW, in June 2001, a group of high-level experts from the Ministry of Higher Education,
rectors and faculty from several universities, and the Bank conducted a symposium on the state of higher
education in Colombia and outlined the most important policy challenges facing Colombian higher
education. This workshop was supported by analytic work, background assessments, and a series of
policy papers by relevant experts. That work has become a published and widely circulated two volume
document titled Educacion Superior, Desaffo Global y Respuesta Nacional (Universidad de los Andes,
octubre de 2001) and has provided the basis for broadening the discussion of policy within the
Colombian higher education community. This momentum was further advanced through the policy
seminar co-financed by the World Bank in January 2002, which included all major stakeholders
including representatives from students, faculty and the private corporate sector. Additionally, Bank
staff had the opportunity to meet with each of the presidential candidate teams prior to the elections, to
present the proposed project and were able to gain the support of each candidate. This was an important
development because due to the timing of project preparation and the timing of national elections, project
negotiations have taken place with a new administration, whose support was tantamount to the project's
success.
Further the project preparation activities have involved the support of two networks: (i) education-private
sector cooperation; and (ii) intemationalization, which would be further strengthened during project
implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
In the preparation of the Project the Bank held meetings with the public and private universities in
coordination with ASCUN, an independent body comprised of Rectors and senior level administrators.
Continued cooperation with ASCUN, as interlocutor to a range of NGOs involved in the sector, is
anticipated as are frequent visits to autonomous institutions. In relation to the students, the Bank has
organized focus groups with student representatives from public and private universities to analyze the
impact of the student loan schemes proposed in the Project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The prime social impact of the project is the improved access to tertiary for low-income students. To
reach this objective, selection of the most needy students is crucial. ICETEX will use the national
SISBEN-index, see annex 11 for additional information about SISBEN. DNP has recently evaluated the
index's ability to identify needy families, and found it adequate, but has nevertheless undertaken an
exercise to optimize the targeting function of the index.  DNP will regularly undertake similar
evaluations in the future, and will furthermore assist ICETEX in its use of the index as a targeting
mechanism.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Specific indicators will be monitored by ICETEX with the support of ICFES/MEN/DNP.
- 24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         ()Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 ( Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  ( Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    ( Yes S No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Policy makers were consulted regarding the broad
design of the reform initiative during several missions to Colombia.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main sustainability risk revolves around the financial solvency of the student loan program.
Repayment options and collection methods of student loan schemes have traditionally been weak in many
countries. However, the scheme builds upon many years of domestic experience and adds recent positive
experience from a carefully designed student loans project in Mexico. To counter this risk the scheme
must assure that ICETEX keeps both defaults and administrative costs within a reasonable minimum.
Another risk is related to the substantial autonomy of higher education institutions. The project will
become successful when the institutions respond positively to the incentives provided for improving
quality and relevance of their study programs, enhancing faculty development programs, and increasing
cross subsidies (scholarships) for the neediest students.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating     .       Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
A. Realized equitable access to relevant
study programs of good quality
Government commitment to sustained         S         Information activities for current and coming
subsidy of needy students                            government teams (workshop January, 2002)
Realization of new opportunities by        M         Scholarships for the poorest and targeted loans
families
B. Expanded post-graduate programs by
Support to Doctoral Programs
Private sector invests in innovation and   M         Stakeholder activities organized by
demands advanced skills                              COLCIENCIAS and ACAC
- 25 -



Universities recruit/replace professors   N        Coordination with faculty development
programs
C. Improved coherence and efficiency in
tertiary education
Higher Education Sector committed to      M        Stakeholders network. Linking student aid to
innovate and improve performance                   studying in accredited programs
Students make use of available            M        Effective Monitoring and Evaluation,
information to choose enrolling at quality         Accreditation Systems and Labor Market
institutions                                       Observatory. Divulgation of Information
From Components to Outputs
A. Equity in Access/Student Aid Program
Demand for loans                          M        Publicity and Divulgation campaigns
Terms and conditions of loans are         S        TA for design of targeting mechanism and
adequate for achieving a financially               mechanism to up-date criteria and subsidy
viable and equitable aid program                  levels etc. every year.
B. Support for Doctoral Programs:         M
Existing PhD programs award more          M
scholarships and institutions improve              No. of students applying for loans;
faculty development                                Competitive block grants awarded to
Colombian PhD programs and are coordinated
with faculty development systems
New PhD programs created and              S        No. of students applying for loans;
institutions improve faculty development           Competitive block grants awarded to
Colombian PhD programs and are coordinated
with faculty development systems
C. Institutional Strengthening:
Support from key stakeholders             S        Workshops to improve cooperation between
agencies and stakeholder conferences
Improved procedures lead to increased     N        Consultancies for improvement of legal
number of programs/institutions                    framework, establishing new decrees for QA
accredited
Management capacity within the various    N        Improvement of MIS
implementing institutions/agencies
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Focus on demand side financing. The task team has, in the design of the project, mitigated that risk by
balancing demand side financing with a substantial scholarship program as well as with providing
support to Doctoral programs which will support the supply of PhD opportunities in Colombia. The
project will also greatly improve the framework conditions for Colombian tertiary education
- 26 -



G.. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved by the Bank;
* Independent auditors referred to in Sections 4.01 (b) (i) and 3.08 (e) of the Loan Agreement have
been contracted by ICETEX;
* PCU has been fully staffed and is operational as provided in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement;
* Financial management system for the Project has been established as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of
the Loan Agreement;
* Borrower has furnished to the Bank a proposed plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the selection of
consultants under the Project; and
* Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the respective parties.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
_____'4                           QQ                                 (/14 LK4A-
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen           Ana-Maria Arria                   Mark V. Hagerstr4En
Team Leader                       ctor Director                     Country Director
- 27-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                                        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable growth,        * Increased GDP per capita  a IMF, and National data,
poverty reduction and social * Improved Gini coefficient  * WB calculation         * Other macroeconomic variables
development                                                                          within and beyond control of
GOC favorable or neutral
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
The purpose is to improve   * Increased continuation rate  * DNP/WB/AMF reports on  * Demand for highly skilled
tertiary education's response  from Secondary education  labor market                labor
to demand for quality         Increased number of
graduates                     graduates from tertiary
education
*% increase of employment     MEN data and periodic    a Improved productivity of
rates of graduates         special assessments         the entire labor force
Employers report greater  * Tracer studies and       * Greater supply of highly
satisfaction with           qualitative surveys of      skilled labor reduces the
preparedness of graduates   Employers                  skill premium
Increased number of PhD's  * International surveys of   Private sector invests in
produced                    technological capabilities  innovation
Increased employment of     (UNDP, WB, OECD and
PhD's                       CEPAL). Trade statistics
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Realized equitable access to  aPercentage coverage increase  MEN/ICFES               * Government commitment to
relevant study programs of    per decile.                                              sustained subsidy of needy
good quality:               *Increased number of students                              students
enrolled in technical
programs.
* More effective and        *Decreased (%)              * ICETEX annual reports     * Realization of new
financially sustainable     administration costs and                                opportunities by families
student loan and grant      default rates for student aid
programs                    program.
*An increase of x% in the
number of students
obtaining loans to access
tertiary education.
Access to tertiary education  * Number of students from  MEN/ICFES                  Effective targeting is
for academucally qualified  lower socioeconomic                                    implemented
but financially needy       backgrounds receiving aid
students
- 28 -



Expanded post-graduate       * An increase by X% in the    a COLCIENCIAS/ICFES            * Pnvate sector invests in
programs through the            number of students studying at                               innovation and demands
Support for Doctoral           the Doctoral level in Colombia                                advanced skills
Programs component           * Reduction in Brain Drain                                   * Universities recruit/replace
professors
* R&D efforts by
PhD-students
Improved coherence and        *  Higher completion rates   a ICFES/MEN annual reports.     * Tertiary education Sector
efficiency in tertiary education: * Lower unit costs                                         committed to innovate and
improve performance.
a Published up-to-date
* Labor Market Observatory to  * Unemployment rates and wages  information on labor market
track Graduates and market    by discipline and area       response for graduates.
needs
a Students make use of available
* Coherent and effective QA   * Increase in the number of  * CNAAICFES                     infonmation to choose enrolling
system                        accredited and evaluated                                   at quality programs
programs
a Articulated institutional, and  * revision of Ley 30     *ICFES/MEN
M&E arrangements
Project Components /          Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                 Outputs)
Equity in Access/Student Aid    227.1 mnillion USD                                       a Demand for Loans
Program:
* Student Loans               a ICETEX has procedures in   *ICETEX                       * Terms and conditions of loans
(275.8 million USD)       place to handle larger student                             are adequate for achieving a
demand                                                      financially viable and equitable
aid program
* Monitonng and Evaluation    * TA design of M&E
(1.5 million USD)         mechanism funding for the                                * Political and Institutional
operation of the M&E system  a ICETEX                    * support
and for publications
Support to Doctoral Programs    * 25 rnillion USD          * COLCIENCIAS Annual          * Existing Doctoral programs
Reports                       recruit more candidates
through the loan program
and Tertiary education
Institutions improve faculty
development programs
* New Doctoral programs are
created, accredited, and
attract qualified students and
institutions improve their
faculty development
programs
Institutional Strengthening:  * 7.1 million                 * ICETEX/DNP/MEN             * Support from Stakeholder
Annual Reports
Labor Market Observatory   * Technical assistance provided
- 29 -



* DNP/MEN
(3 million USD)            i planning and management       /FEDESARROLLO
* Consultancy contracts
* Information systems
* Support to Education - Private
sector network
a Publicity and Divulgation
campaigns
* Improving Institutional  a Technical Assistance
Capacity to Formulate and  provided to improve
implement policies         decision making,           CNA/CNDM/ICFES            * More efficiently functioning
(2.9 million USD)          coordination and efficiency     /MEN                   management organization
of the agencies, to                                  * Improved procedures lead to
strengthen institutional                               increased number of
management to carry out                                programs/institutions are
institutional diagnostics, to                          accredited
consolidate and broaden the
quality assurance system
and bring it in link with
international norms
a Improving and Strengthening  Improvement of SNIES to
the National Information   provide better system-wide
System for Higher Education
(1.2 million USD)        a Provide better system-wide
information for stakeholder
decision-making
* Management capacity
within the vanous
* ICFES/MEN                   implementing institutions
agencies
Project Management                                     * MEN
Baseline indicators have been established, and targets will be established in the Operational Manual
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$252.14 million
Improve Equity in Access to Tertiary Education:    This project component consists of two
sub-components:
*   Investment in student-aid - US$ 250.64 million (99.4% of component costs)
*   Monitoring and Evaluation - US$ 1.5 million (0.6% of component costs)
Student Aid Program Sub-component I - Investment in student aid - US$250.64 million
The main element of the of the financial aid component is as follows:
*   The project will have two types of credit lines: LINE A, directed to technical and technological
programs, teacher training programs, post-secondary programs of Escuelas Normales, and master of
education programs (60% of funding) and LINE B graduate programs and Masters in Education
(40% of funding). Within each line, there will be two sub-lines (A], A2, BI, and B2). Line Al and
BI will provide a mix of grants (25 percent) and unsubsidized loan (75 percent), while Line A2 and
B2 only will provide unsubsidized loans.
*   The financial aid will cover tuition and in exceptional cases also living expenses. Aid will be
available for academically qualified students from low and middle income socioeconomic strata
(strata 1, 2 and 3) who have been accepted to study in accredited programs relevant to the labor
market. Students from strata one and two will sign promissory notes acknowledging their debt while
those from strata three will be required to provide collateral. The aid will be available for study at
technical, technological, university, and teacher training institutions.
*   The interest rate paid on the loan will be 12 percent, equal to a projected annual inflation of 6 percent
plus an additional margin of 6 percent, of which 3.5 percent is for loan management and 2.5 percent
to cover financial risk of nonpayment. Students have a one year grace period after graduation after
which repayment is to begin with a repayment period of twice the duration of the loan period. In
order to reduce the risk of default, repayment will be a fixed percentage (16%) of the individuals
income.
Beneficiaries: The beneficiaries will be academically well qualified students who cannot afford to pay
tertiary education tuition. The component will finance 100,000 beneficiaries from economically
disadvantaged backgrounds (9 percent of the total student population). A study will be undertaken to
estimate the expected improvements in equity brought about by the project.
Targeting: Students will be selected based upon their SISBEN-score, which the Colombian government
uses for a series of social services. Annex 11 describes SISBEN and review a study on the effectiveness
of SISBEN as a targeting mechanism, which finds SISBEN an appropriate selection mechanism. The
team will during appraisal ask for a reliable alternative to be applied for the few instances, where the
SISBEN-score isn't available for low-income students
To execute this subcomponent, ICETEX will sign agreements with different bodies such as higher
education institutions, territorial entities and other credit and higher education development institutions
as strategic partners. Each of the partners would be required to provide some agreed amount of
- 31 -



counterpart funding that would be used to provide loans to qualified students, as defined by the project.
The recovery of funds will be made through agreements with banks or institutions with national or
regional coverage specializing in collection. A portion of the projected interest rate includes a reserve
fund and unemployment insurance (1%) that will allow loan recovery by covering the debtor's
unemployment status for a penod of up to six months. The system will also have a Guarantee Fund that
guarantees the total default receivables. This may be a coinsurance fiduciary fund or a third party
specializing in such activities, such as the National Guarantee Fund (FNG). The financing sources for
the Fund will be: (i) resources from the national budget and a counterpart amount from the same Fund
(both parties will agree on a percent contribution), (ii) collections equivalent to an annual 2.5 percent of
the interest rate, and (iii) legal collections - the Fund should be authorized to retain a portion of the
salary of employed, delinquent graduates. Additional information about student loan conditions and
number of students are provided in tables at the end of Annex 2.
Student Aid Program Sub-component 2 - Monitoring and Evaluation - US$1.5 million
This sub-component will finance the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the entire
project and will include a detailled M&E syste, for student loans. Specifically, the sub-component will
provide pertinent and sufficient information on the beneficiaries profiles, the expenditures of resources,
outcomes, repayments and other operational elements. ICETEX, in regard with the partnerships with
Higher education institutions will measure the following demand indicators: (1) selection rates of
beneficiaries in relation to applicants, (2) gender and income level of beneficiaries; (3) distribution of
beneficiaries by field of knowledge; (4) academic results of beneficiaries vs non-beneficiaries. It also
considers the following financial indicators: (1) rates of default by institutions;  (2) rate of late
repayment; (3) rate of repayment; (4) administrative cost of portfolio by institutions. Operations
indicators: (1) Efficiency and quality of processes; (2) satisfaction of beneficiaries; (3) graduation rates;
(4) employment by field of study.
Project Component 2 - US$25.00 million
Support for Doctoral Programs: This project component will provide support for existing and new
Doctoral programs.
To support and expand existing and newly created doctoral programs in Colombia this component will
provide funding for the following activities (i) provide student loans to those students studying in CNDM
accredited graduate programs; (ii) invest in small civil works to enhance facilities at elegible Colombian
Universities such as financing infrastructure rehabilitation, minor construction, or purchasing state of the
art scientific equipment; and (iii) provide academic staff development and stipends for visiting
professors. For this component, student loans would be administered by ICETEX as described in
Component One of this project. For the remaining activities of the component, (ii) and (iii), the
institutions will be the recipients of grants for proposed sub-projects; the grants will be allocated on a
competitive basis. The competitive grants to institutions for their sub-projects will be made based on the
excellence of their academic program(s), the relevance of their programs, whether they support areas of
national priority, and the level of regional participation
Proposals for the competitive sub-projects will be subject to preselection and selection by a Program
Committee, and according to developed criteria as defined in the operational manual. The criteria for
selection of the sub-projects for a university should include: (i) qualifications of the principal faculty;
(ii) track record, in terms of the quality and the employability of a doctoral graduates' research merit;
(iii) integration and training of graduate and post-graduate students in research and outreach activities;
(iv) intemational cooperation - such as attraction of foreign faculty, researchers, and students; in addition,
- 32 -



at least one of the following criteria should be considered: (v) proposed regional outreach activities; (vi)
relation to Colombia's priority fields and to other societal needs, such as health or welfare; and (vii)
connection to other sectors. Approximately 50 grants for subprojects will be made during the project
varying in size from US$ 100,000 - 300,000. The grants would finance laboratory equipment, books and
information materials, and minor modifications of laboratory facilities (minor civil works within 10% of
each grant). The total amount allocated for grants over the lifetime of the project will be US$ 6.3 million.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.09 million
Institutional Strengthening: This component will have three sub-components:
*   Labor Market Monitoring Program - US$ 3.0 million ( 42% of component cost)
* Improving institutional capacity to formulate and implement policy US$ 2.9 million (41%)
*   Improve and Strengthen the Higher Education Information Management System, SNIES US$1.19
million (17%)
Institutional Strengthening Sub-component 1- Labor Market Monitoring Program (Observatorio
Laboral)- US$3 million
A labormarket monitoring program (Labor Market Observatory, LMO) will be established in
coordination with relevant ministries. The purpose of the LMO will be to monitor, analyze and
disseminate labor market information in order to obtain and provide information about the performance
of various kinds of graduates from tertiary education in the labor market. This component will include the
following activities:
Establishment of the LMO: the project will finance minor rehabilitation of office space to house the
LMO as well as furniture and equipment.
Surveys of the Labor Market and Dissemination of Labor Market Information: Staff could be redeployed
from other organizations (DNP) to gather existing labor market data, oversee labor market surveys,
analyze and synthesize data and prepare dissemination materials. This task would be performed annually
and would allow the tracking of graduates as they leave tertiary education and enter the productive sector.
Institutional Strengthening Sub-component 2 - Improving institutional capacity to formulate and
implement policy US$ 2.9 million
This subcomponent will provide support to build capacity in the Ministry of Education and other
governing bodies to improve the framework for tertiary education. MEN's capabilities for policy design,
implementation and evaluation will be strengthened and new functions will be established, such as
oversight on Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), technical assistance for financial management, and
procurement advisory services. More generally, this component will identify ways of enhancing both the
strategic planning and the policy making capacities in MEN in terms of its decision making processes, the
analytical capacity and the information needed to inform decisions, the methods of data collection, and
the staffing and managerial implications. This sub-component will include the following activities: (i)
build capacity for strategic planning and management in the Ministry of Education and other governing
bodies, such as ICFES, DNP, CNA, and CNDM
Additional technical assistance to be provided under this component will help to review and expand the
current QA system as well as to bring it into line with internationally recognized standards of QA. An
enhanced and expanded quality assurance system is needed in order to allow stakeholders access to
reliable information on HE institutions, relevance of degrees, effectiveness and efficiency in resource use,
- 33 -



and institutional management capabilities. This sub-component addresses the identified risks of low
quality instruction which would lead to reduced project performance. In addition, the quality assurance
system may be used to help inform the distribution of public funds - either for education or for research -
and thereby increase public sector efficiency.
This sub-component will include the following activities:
Consolidation of the Quality Assurance system under a single organization which would have as its
primary tasks the accreditation of programs and institutions and the evaluation of study programs. By the
end of the project it is expected that the accreditation system will: (i) have expanded coverage; (ii) be
centered on output based criteria, such as learning outcomes (skills), rather than on input based criteria
from institutions, and (iii) be linked to economic incentives. It is essential that the accreditation board be
independent of the government and of the institutions whose quality it guarantees.
Review of the present qualification framework for study programs: while quality standards are currently
in place they could benefit from review and upgrading to ensure continued improvement and to allow
institutions and their programs to move along a continuum that promotes increasing levels of quality.
The establishment of upgraded standards would (i) facilitate the transfer of students between related
careers and study levels by assuring that courses and degrees carry the same weight at different
institutions; (ii) support increased access (which is normally linked to increased quality offerings at the
technical and technological level); (iii) ensure compliance with minimum standards for close to all
programs offered in the country; (iv) make programs more pertinent to actual stakeholder needs; (v)
increase links with the productive sector, and (vi) continue to move the tertiary education system towards
international standards.
Institutional Strengthening Sub-component 3 - Improving and Strengthening the National Information
System for Higher Education - US$ 1.19 million
Improve and upgrade the National tertiary Education Information System to provide better system-wide
information for stakeholder decision-making. This will be coordinated by MEN and includes ICETEX
and ICFES. The SNIES will provide information such as: (i) statistics about HE institutions; (ii) quality
of programs; and (iii) disclosure of financial information.
Project Component 4 - US$1.40 million
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
This component includes: (i) establishment of a Project Coordination Unit; (ii) technical assistance for
agencies, responsible for coordinating and implementing the activities in the three project components
described earlier; and (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation studies. Under this component the project would
finance studies, publications, minor office equipment, remuneration of PCU personnel, and other
administrative costs. The Director of the PCU will be appointed by MEN/DES, in agreement with the
agencies responsible for overall project coordination. The PCU would perform all necessary support
activities for project coordination and as such would consist of a Financial Specialist, a Procurement
Specialist, a General secretary/administrative assistant and the Director, and would be supplemented by
designated personnel from implementing agencies as necessary: ICETEX (Student aid); COLCIENCIAS
(Doctoral program), and MEN/ICFES(Institutional Strengthening). In addition CNA and CNDM may be
sub-contracted to provide the PCU with the necessary expertise implementing capacity on the Quality
Assurance. These commissions would be sub-contracted based on specific, agreed upon Terms of
Reference detailing the nature and scope of their input to the project.
- 34 -



Figure 1
Schematic Structure of Existing Loan Schemes
Flow of Resources
Education Credit Partnership
Government
ICETEX                                Private Bank
Guarantee   |
Fund (FNG)
Education    |
| Institution l
Students                                Students
- 35 -



Figure 2
Schematic Structure of Proposed Loan Schemes
World Bank
Grants credit in  +  t   Repays credit in
US$                      US$
Colombian                G
r 
Government
ICE
Financial
industry
Cajas de             HigherEua       Departments&    I
compensaci6n          Education         Municipalities
l          ~~~~institutions
ICR                  |CR                 CR
IRepayment dunng studies | Students and professionals     Repayment upon graduation
$: Flow of resources in Col pesos
CR: Flow of Credits
---- Education credit partnership
- 36 -



Annex Table 1 Summary of Financial Aid Component
Technical Institutions              University Careers
Line Al          Line A2          Line B I          Line B2
Impact
N# of Beneficiaries               75,550           23,160            7,500            18,655
Disbursement
Length of program (years)            3                3                4                 4
% of tuition financed by student   75%              100%              75%              100%
loan (maximum)**
% of tuition paid by household      0%               0%               0%                0%
(minimum)
% of tuition covered by project    25%               0%               25%               0%
grant
Repayment
Interest rate on outstanding loan   12%              12%              12%              12%
Grace penod (for repayment)        I year           I year           I year            I year
Repayment period                Double of the    Double of the    Double of the    Double of the
studying time    studying time    studying time     studying time
Repayment schedule            Graduated at 16 % Graduated at 16 %  Graduated at 16 %  Graduated at 16 %
of expected      of expected   of expected income   of expected
income           Income                             income
Note
** There will be an upper limit in absolute terms to borrowing
- 37-



Annex Table 2 Number of Students Financed
World Bank Project Higher Education Improving Access
2003            2004           2005            2006           2007            2008
Total WB Project     1st sem 2nd sem  1st sem 2nd sem  1st sem 2nd sem  1st sem 2nd sem  1st sem 2nd sem  1st sem 2nd sem
New Students
Technical       98,710    79%     3,886   5,216  6,546   7,876   9,206  10,536  11,866  13,196  14,526  15,856     0       0
LINE Al     75,550    61%     3,100  4,090   5,080   6,070   7,060   8,050   9,040  10,030  11,020  12,010     0      0
LINE A2     23,160    19%      786   1,126   1,466   1,806   2,146   2,486  2,826   3,166   3,506   3,846      0      0
University      26,155    21%     1,225   1,534  1,843   2,152   2,461   2,770   3,079  3,388   3,697   4,006      0      0
LINE 81     7,500      6%      525     575     625     675    725     775     825     875    925     975       0      0
LINE B2     18,655    15%      700     959   1,218   1,477   1,736   1,995  2,254   2,513   2,772   3,031      0      0
Total           124,865   100%   5,111   6,750   8,389  10,028  11,667  13,306  14,945  16,584  18,223  19,862    0       0
Continuing Students
Technical       367,020   75%        0   3,750   8,652  14,666  21,753  29,876  35,859  41,843  47,826  53,810  59,793  49,192
LINE Al    281,460    57%        0   2,992   6,834  11,497  16,952  23,171  27,625  32,079  36,533  40,987  45,441  37,350
LINEA2      85,560    17%/6      0     758   1,819   3,170   4,801   6,704  8,234   9,763  11,293  12,823  14,352  11,842
University      123,385   25%        0    1,182  2,621   4,308   6,234   8,390  10,770  13,364  16,166  19,168  21,505  19,678
LINE B1     37,537     8%        0     507   1,044   1,610   2,205   2,828  3,477   4,151   4,850   5,573  5,951   5,340
LINE B2     85,848    18%        0     676   1,577   2,697   4,028   5,563  7,293   9,213  11,316  13,594  15,553  14,337
Total     _    490,405    100%       0   4,932  11,273  18,974  27,987  38,266  46,629  55,207  63,992  72,977  81,298  68,870
Student Semesters Financed
Technical       465,730   76%    3,886   8,966  15,198  22,542  30,959  40,412  47,725  55,039  62,352  69,666  59,793  49,192
LINE Al    357,010    58%    3,100   7,082  11,914  17,567  24,012  31,221  36,665  42,109  47,553  52,997  45,441  37,350
LINEA2      108,720   18%      786   1,884   3,285   4,976  6,947   9,190  11,060  12,929  14,799  16,669  14,352  11,842
University      149,540   24%    1,225   2,716   4,464   6,460   8,695  11,160  13,849  16,752  19,863  23,174  21,505  19,678
LINE B1     45,037     7%      525   1,082   1,669   2,285  2,930   3,603   4,302   5,026   5,775  6,548   5,951   5,340
LINE B2     104,503   17%      700   1,635   2,795   4,174  5,764   7,558   9,547  11,726  14,088  16,625  15.553  14,337
Total           615,270   100%/6  5,111  11,682  19,662  29,002  39,654  51,572  61,574  71,791  82,215  92,839  81,298  68,870
- 38 -



Annex Table 3 Continued, Number of Students Financed
ICETEX
2009              2010              2011              2012      Total
1st sem  2nd sem  1st sem  2nd sem  1st sem  2nd sem  1st sem    2003-12
New Students
Technical            0        0        0        0        0        0        0   98,710
LINE Al          0        0        0        0        0        0        0   75,550
LINE A2          0        0        0        0        0        0        0   23,160
University           0       0        0         0        0        0       0    26,155
LINE B1          0       0         0        0        0        0        0   7,500
LINE B2          0        0        0        0        0        0        0   18,655
Total                0        0        0        0        0        0        0  124,865
Continuing Students
Technical       37,888   25,906   13,269        0        0        0        0  444,083
LINE Al     28,742   19,637   10,050        0        0        0        0  339,889
LINE A2      9,146    6,269    3,218        0        0        0        0  104,194
University      17,698   15,572   13,304   10,898    8,361    5,695    2,907  197,820
LINE B1      4,716    4,078    3,428    2,765    2,090    1,404      708   56,725
LINE B2      12,983  11,494    9,876    8,133    6,270    4,291    2,200   141,095
Total            55,587  41,478   26,572   10,898    8,361    5,695    2,907  641,903
Student Semesters Financed
Technical       37,888   25,906   13,269       0        0        0        0    542,793
LINE Al     28,742   19,637   10,050       0        0        0        0   415,439
LINE A2      9,146    6,269    3,218       0        0        0        0    127,354
University      17,698   15,572   13,304   10,898    8,361    5,695    2,907  223,975
LINE B1      4,716    4,078    3,428    2,765    2,090    1,404     708    64,225
LINE B2     12,983   11,494    9,876    8,133    6,270    4,291    2,200 | 159,750
Total           55,587   41,478   26,572   10,898    8,361    5,695    2,907   766,768
- 39 -



CUOTAS A PAGAR POR CADA BENEFICIARIO
ACTIVIDAD             E A 9g%/.l  CONCEPTOS        PLAN DE CUOTAS EN EJECUCION INTr-RPqFC         |  AMORTIZACON CUOTA              FUA
EJECUCION VALOR CUOTAS POR        anio         2003           2004            2005                              A ANODE GRAC'A
Capital girado          750 000       2 295 000       3 932 700                                      4 775 400
I SEM                              -_   ___
LINEA AI                         Cuota ejecuci6n            5 116          15 655          26 827                                        32 575
Tecnica y                        Captat gprado          1 500 000      3 090 000       4 775 400                                      4 775 400
Tecnologica      IISEM
y con                        Cuota ejecucron           10 232         21 078           32 575                                        32 575
subsidto   AMORTIZACION VALOR CUOTAS POR      anlo         2007           2008             2009       2010          2011                 2012
I SEM  cuota artizacton             70 384         70 384           70 384     70 384       70 364                70 384
11 SEM  cuota amoneaci6n             70 384         70 384          70 384      70 384       70 384               70 384
EJECUCION VALOR CUOTAS POR        anio         2003           2.004           2005                              ANO DE GRA CIA
I SEM            Capital girado ___ _   1000 000       3     060 5oo    s 243 600                                     6 367 200
Cuota elecuci6n             6 821         20 874          35 769                                        43 434
LINEA A2                         iCal     rado           2000000        4 120 0667200                                                  6 367 200
recnca y        ISEMCuota ejecuci6n                        13 643         28105           43 434                                        43 434
Tecnolog9ca,  AMORTIZACION VALOR CUOTAS POR      aio         2±007           2008            ±009        2.010        ±011                  £ 012
I SEM  cuota amortiaci6n            93 845          93 845          93 845     93 845        93 845               93 845
11 SEM  cuota amoflizaci6n           93 845         93 845          93 845      93 845       93 845                93 845
EJECUCION VALOR CUOTAS POR        anio         2003           2.004            £005       2006         £007     ANO DE GRAC'A
Capital grado          1500 0OO       4 590 000       7 865 400  11337 324    15 017 563            16 911 279
I SEM
Cuota eecuci6n             10 232         31311           53 654      77 337      102 442               115 360
NiveA  I     SEM              Capital girado        3 000 000       610000          9 550800  13123 845     16 911 279           16 911 279
Profesional                      Cuota elecuct6n            20464          42157           65151       89 524      115 360               115 360
con   AMORT1ZACION VALOR CUOTAS POR       ano          2009           2010            2011        2012         2013 _
subsidio              I SEM | cuota amoizac6n            206 845         206 845         206 845    206 845       206 845
1 SEM  cuota amor, acE5n           206 845        208 845                     206
;-                    afIt         £014           2015            £016        £017         £016
I SEMI cta amotiacion              206 845         206 845         206 845    206 845       206 845
11 SEMI cuota amoilizaci6n          206 845        206 845         206 845     208 845      206 845
EJECUCON VALOR CUOTAS POR         ario         Z003           2.004            ±005       ±006          2007    ANO DE GRA aCA
ISEM             Capital grado          2 0OO 000       6 120 000      10 487 200  15 116 432   20 023 418           22 548 372
Cuota elecuci6n            13 643         41 746          71 538     103 117      136 590               153 814
11ISEM            Capital girado         4000000        8 240 000      12 734 400  17 498 464   22 4 372              22 548 372
LINEA E2                   _     Cta elecuci6n              27 286         56 209          86 868     119 366      153 814               153 614
N/vVI  AMORTIZACION VALOR CUOTAS POR       afio         ±009           £.010           ±01il       2.012        2.013
Profesional             I SEM  cuota amortizaci6n           275 793        275 793         275 793     275 793      275 793
11 SEM  cuota amortizaci6n          275 793        275 793         275 793     275 793      275 793
alo          ±014      2      015            ±016       2 017         £018
I SEM  cuota amortizacion          275 793                         275 793    275 793       275 793
11 SEM  cuota amortizaci6n   _      275 793                                    275 793      275 793
Subdireccion Tecnica- LMCM
- 40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US$miillion   US $million  .US $million
1. Goods                                                    1.36          1.04          2.40
2. Consultant Services including Audits                     5.88          0.61          6.49
3. Transfers for Student Financial Aid (Tertiary Education  250.14        0.00        250.14
Loans and Grants)
4. Goods, Works. Consultant Services for Doctoral Program                               0.00
Sub-projects
4a. Financial aid for graduate students (Tertiary Education  15.00        0.00         15.00
Loans and Grants)
4b Sub-projects for Doctoral Programs (Goods, Works,        7.50          2.50         10.00
Consultant Services)
5. Operating costs                                          1.10          0.00          1.10
6. PPF refinancing                                          0.00          0.09          0.09
7. Unallocated                                              0.50          0.00          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       281.48          4.24        285.72
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'             281.48          4.24        285.72
Front-end fee                     2.00          2.00
Total Financing Required              281.48         6.24        287.72
Cost sharing arrangement for the Project (Pari passu) has been established as 70/30 percent and
authorized by the Colombia Country Management Unit.
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (U5$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 287 72 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost sharnng ratio is 69 51
% of total project cost net of taxes
- 41 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Introduction
This annex elaborates on the economic rationale behind the decision to fund the project and the chosen
design. First, it opens by a discussion of the rationale for public intervention. Second, the annex shows
the project's impact on equity through an analysis of the accessibility of tertiary education by income
decile. Third, the annex presents several economic analyzes on the cost effectiveness of chosen
intervention compared to alternatives. Fourth, the project's fiscal impact is discussed. Lastly, the annex
presents a sensitivity analysis focusing on the impact of financial sustainability of changes in the key
parameters: graduation rates, income and unemployment.
1. Rationale for Public Intervention
The rationale for public sector involvement in student loan programs for middle and low-income students
is supported by the following considerations:
* Missing Market. Student loans are a channel through which private sector funds can contribute to
the expansion of higher education. However, the available private sector loan programs offered by
commercial banks do not loan on the basis of academic abilities -the fundamental asset required for
repayment- but rather on physical assets available to the student. Private bank loans are hence geared
towards the upper end of the income distribution, where the needs are the least. Several universities
have partnerships with commercial banks. However these contracts mainly smooth tuition payments
over the course of one semester only and do not accommodate the demand for longer term credits.
* Externalities in higher education. There exists several positive externalities from tertiary education
that transcends the private benefits and therefore lead to an under-investment in tertiary education if
left to the pnvate market. These externalities stem from both technical spillovers and peer-effects as
well as from improved social outcomes. Several research reports on economic growth find that
technical progress accounts for a large share of improved living standards. Easterly and Levine
(2000) estimate that up to 80 percent of cross-country variation in economic growth can be attributed
to a broad definition of technological progress. Similarly, the 2001-World Bank report on economic
development in Latin American and the Caribbean, De Ferranti and Perry et al.(2001), underscores
the necessity of increased application of knowledge and innovation in production in Latin American
countries. These findings are important, because technological progress in all sectors of the economy
are not possible without the contribution of an innovative tertiary education system, which -for
public resources- generates new knowledge through basic research and builds absorptive capacity
through graduates. With regards to improved social outcome and the consequent impact on the
economy, it is important to highlight the existence of joint-product effects linked to the
complementarities between tertiary education and the lower levels of education on the one hand and
between the education sector and other government services, like health-provision, on the other hand.
Although no reliable estimate exists on the size of these externalities, they could justify a level of
public investment in tertiary education similar to those seen in developed countries.
* Fiscal savings. The planned expansion of higher education cannot be funded exclusively with public
resources. The public sector faces a scarcity of economic resources to spur growth especially
following the economic recession in 1998 and 1999. Increasing coverage, thus, can be achieved only
if public higher education institutions are able to generate additional resources, through tuition fees
- 42 -



and other income-generating measures, and if private universities manage to absorb a growing share
of higher education enrollments. Unlike most public universities, private universities have unutilized
capacity to expand enrollment and broaden their enrollment base. Section 5 of this annex quantifies
the fiscal savings involved with this project.
Therefore, in order to ensure a sufficient and an equitable growth of higher education enrollment, there is
a need to increase the number of available loans and their affordability. The public sector's responsibility
to ensure equity and spur growth positions it as an important supporter of loan programs which would
help academically eligible students from middle and lower income families to obtain quality
post-secondary education on affordable terms. The World Bank would play a key catalytic role in
providing technical guidance and seed financing. Based on its international experience in support of
student loan programs, the Bank could ensure that the proposed scheme would be designed for
sustainability and operated in an efficient manner, thus enhancing the prospects of developing the
Colombian market for student loans in the future.
2. Impact on Equity
This section assesses the accessibility of higher education for different income groups with the proposed
student aid and without accessibility to poorest students. It finds the project significantly reduces the
immediate costs of tertiary education and thereby makes tertiary education accessible for the low-income
students. Furthermore, the section shows that the monthly interest charges of the loans would in some
instance take up so large a share of the household's income that it is expected that the family would not
enroll a household member in tertiary education.
The program considerably opens the access to higher education to the poorest students. Table I
compares the monthly payment in tuition that a family with no access to financial assistance has to pay
for entry into private tertiary education compared to the payment under the suggested project.
Table 1 Increased Access to Higher Education for the niddle and Income students
Technical Studies                 Academic studies
Monthly payment dunng studies     Monthly payment during studies
Household    (As a % of household income)      (As a % of household income)
monthly     Without Aid    With Aid   Without Aid   With Loans   With Grants
(2002mes)                   (Line A)                  (Line BIl)   and Loans
Deciles  (2002 Pesos)_(Line_A)_(Line____                                     (Line B2)
DI            105,757    158%          30%          315%         87%           54%
D2            303,325    55%            11%         110%         30%           19%
D3            414,193    40%            8%          80%           22%          14%
D4            511,133    33%            6%          65%           18%          11%
D5            623,844    27%            5%          53%           15%           9%
D6            760,254     22%           4%          44%           12%           8%
D7            921,307     18%           4%          36%           10%           6%
Dg          1,071,879     16%           3%          31%           9%            5%
D9           1,618,172    10%           2%          21%           6%            4%
DIO         3,814,592     4%            1%           9%           2%            2%
Note See end of this annex of the main assumptions.
- 43 -



Table 1 emphasizes the sizable amount needed for attending tertiary education in Colombia. Without
assistance, the high tuition costs effectively bar at least half the population from entry into private tertiary
education. For the less expensive technical institutions, sixty percent of households would have to put
aside more than one fifth of the total household budget for education fees. For academic studies, 9 out of
10 households would have to pay one fifth. The alternative public education is not necessarily an
available option, since the fierce competition into public tertiary education often disfavors low-income
students that often graduates from a low quality public school and hasn't received academic support from
their parents.
With the proposed combined grant and loan scheme, technical tertiary education will become affordable
for all deciles, with exception of the first decile. Academic studies will remain out of reach for the
majority of poor households, not only due to short-comings prior to tertiary education, but also due to the
high fees. The limrted combined grant and loan scheme would nevertheless open academic studies for
students above the 10th percentile in the income distribution.
3. Choice of Intervention
3.1 Cost-effectiveness of providing combined loans and grants versus grants only:
The student aid component will provide assistance (loans and grants) to 124,865 students by the year
2008, which will cost the Colombian government US$ 87.72 million (default rate at 2.5 percent). In
contrast a pure grant scheme educating the same pool of graduates would cost US$ 363 millions, hence a
cost-effectiveness factor of 4.
3.2 Choice of length of repayment
Fixing an appropriate schedule of repayment in a student loan scheme is critical for fiscal sustainability
and impacts equally accessibility. This involves two trade-offs. First, advancing the starting point of
repayment reduces future repayments, but could equally inhibit access if the household is unable to repay
prior to completion of studies. The project proposes a very modest repayment of accrued interests during
the time of studying, less than US$ 13 a month for technical students. Secondly, on the one hand, a long
repayment period implies small annually repayments and hence reduced debt service burden for the
borrower, which leads to lower default rates. On the other hand, a long repayment schedule entails a
larger implicit subsidy, since the interest rate is below market rates. The following analysis investigates
how the subsidy depends upon the repayment schedule for the three credit lines.
- 44 -



Table 2: Repayment Periods and Subsidy
Repayment period   Subsidies to  Total Fiscal Cost
(years)       interest rate,  (grants, subsidies,
Fiscal cost      default)      Graduates
Academic Technical (US$ millions)  (US$ millions)
studies  studies
9        4          22.1            75.1          65,907
10       5          26.3            80 1          65,907
l l      6          24.6            78.5          65,907
12       6          31 1            85.7          65,907
13       6          32 2            87.1          65,907
14       6          33.3            88.3          65,907
15       6          34.3            89.4          65,907
16       6          35.2            90.4          65,907
17       6          36.1            91.2          65,907
18       6          32.5            86.9          65,907
19       6          37.8            92.7          65,907
20        6         38.6            93.3           65,907
21        6         39 3            93 9           65,907
Note Calculations based on a project amount of US$200 militon
3.3 Cost effectiveness of developing domestics PhD programs vs. the traditionally grants to study abroad
Previous international loans to COLCrENCIAS have strengthened science and technology in Colombia.
These projects supported S&T by providtng scholarship to graduate and post-graduates studies abroad.
This project seeks equally to strengthen S&T in the country, but opts for a development of domestic PhD
programs. Table 3 examines the cost-effectiveness between the two strategies.
Table 3 Cost-effectiveness of Domestic production of PhDs
Costs per
students   Domestic cost
abroad     per student     Cost-
Students     (constant    (constant  effectiveness
Year          abroad      1998 Col$)   1998 Col$)      ratio
1992            60         233,316       9,000          26
1993            99         136,141       9,000          15
1994            55         115,322       9,000          13
1995            130        139,881       9,000          16
1996            135        140,034       9,000          16
1997            193        117,310       9,000          13
1998             -            -          9,000
1999             -            -          9,000
2000             8          47,074       9,000          5
Average 1992-2000      76     1   132,725      9,000          15
Source: COLCIENCIAS and ICFES(2002)
Note: Cost per domestic post-graduate ts observed in 1998 only.
Table 3 shows that domestic production of PhD programs is on average 15 times more cost-effective.
However, the analysis do not take the possible quality difference between the two forms of production
into the consideration.
- 45 -



4. Macro-economic Fiscal impact
This section measures the macroeconomic fiscal impact of the project by comparing the project's direct
budgetary cost to Government with the savings obtained through the improved schooling outcome of the
project.
The fiscal costs of the project are estimated to be USD 87.72 million of which 76.7 million (87%) is
dedicated the student aid component. The assessment of the macro-economic fiscal impact will be
limited to the latter component due to the complexity of assessing the fiscal benefits from improved
governance and quality.
The public savings from the student aid component arise from the impact that the availability of financial
aid has on schooling decision and completion rate. The following three outcomes are possible:
I. No impact on choice of schooling, but possibly a higher completion rate. In this case financial
assistance could increase the completion rate and thereby increased efficiency of public expenditure.
A large fraction - 26 percent of the student population- has to sustain their livelihood and therefore
works after classes. The effort and time put into learning decrease, which leads to lower value added
and to higher drop out rates and completion time. Recent experience from Mexico, ICEES (2002),
shows that this effect can be non-negligible. It found that completion rates among aid beneficiaries
were 63.3 percent compared to 47.5 percent among non-beneficiaries.  Leaving aside other
differences among the two groups, the difference indicates that the greater completion efficiency
from financial aid increases the value of educational spending by 15 percent.
II. Impact: Substitution from public to private. Receiving aid allow students to substitute public
instruction with private instruction, and thereby leave a place in the public institution open for
another. This is the main channel for fiscal saving. The fiscal saving would in this instance equal
100 percent of the costs of the education in a public institution.
m. Impact: Decision to enroll in private institutions as opposed to not enroll. This would increase the
future tax base of the economy considerably. For the purpose of simplicity, this calculation assumes
that the value of future tax revenue equals the costs of a seat in a public institution.
The combined savings hinges upon the importance of each impact. Given the student loan scheme
explicitly targets low income students in tertiary technical education, which is predominantly private, the
importance of impact (ii) and (iii) is expected to be high, since these students would not have been able
to afford private education without aid. By targeting, the scheme thus simultaneously increases public
savings and equity. The shares of the three impacts are difficult to estimate, since very little research has
been done on the effect of student aid on schooling choices. The fiscal savings have been computed in
four different scenarios in order to assess the magnitude of fiscal saving.
- 46 -



Table 4: Fiscal Savin s
Scenario                        Fiscal savings in
% of a tertnary
(Composition of impact of student)             degree
Impact on schooling       I           II             III            IV
decision
Higher completion rate  33%          20%            0%              0%             15%
Substitution            33%         40%             50%             0%            100%
Enrollment              33%         40%             50%            100%           100%
Fiscal                  188.8       220.1          264.1           293.5            -
Note Assumptions (a) costs of a tertiary degree is estimated to Col$7 3 millions pesos (=Average costs of a technical education
and a four year public university degree weighted by the two groups expected share among beneficiaries)
(b) Number of beneficianes is 84,441
Table 4 shows that the project's fiscal savings exceed the costs (USD 87.72 millions) in all scenarios,
even though the project includes two (limited) grants lines.
The government considered, but rejected, the options of reducing the share of high cost credit lines. The
Government could reduce total costs with more than US$ 8 million by cutting down the share of students
covered by credit line A from 75% to 60%. This would, however, translate into a decrease of about
10,000 graduates in the number of students funded by the program. The elimination of credit line B2
would, in turn, reduce total costs with US$8.2 million without affecting the overall number of graduates
financed. However, such a move would close important channels of social mobility and could be subject
to political opposition. The government currently explores the possibility of transferring a share of the
funds from a public management training fund, SENA, to the component for student aid to technical
training.
5. Financial Sustainability
To assure financial sustainability, the preparation team has analyzed the impact of the charged interest
rate and key determinants of non-repayment: graduation rate, wage and unemployment.
- 47 -



5.1 Fiscal costs and the interest rate
Table 5: Interest rates and fiscal costs
Real interest  Costs of  Total fiscal costs
rate     subsidizing (grants, subsidies,
interest     default)    Graduates
rates
Million US$  Million US$
12.0%       22.1            75.1    65,907
11.0%       31.6            85.3    65,907
10.0%       42.8            97.4    65,907
9.0%        56.3          112.1     65,907
8.0%        72.95         130.4     65,907
7 7%        79.4          137.5     65,907
The analysis emphasizes that the Colombian government must be aware that the costs of subsidizing the
interest rate can be substantial. Thus, the cost associated with an interest rate of 9% as opposed to the
basic scenario of 12% amounts to more than USD 30 million extra. Moreover, total costs including
grants and coverage of default payments will amount to more than US$112 million under a 9% scenario
as opposed to approximately US$75 million under the basic scenario.
5.1 Fiscal costs and Graduation rate
A borrower's capacity to repay hinges upon a successful termination of the undertaken studies, otherwise
the investment has little value added in terms of wages, while increasing the debtor's debt.
Consequently, the probability of non-servicing of the credit increases with the probability of drop out and
thereby jeopardize the scheme's overall sustainability. Based on national aggregated enrolment data,
ICFES (2001) estimates the drop out rate in the tertiary education system at 2.3% for the 1st semester of
1999. ICFES (2001) shows that 3.9 percent of enrolled students dropped out for the period 1991-1999.
There exist little available information for drop out rates for individual institutions and courses. An
exception, Lopez (1996) finds graduation rates in Antioquia to be 50% for under-graduates and 45% for
student in technical institutions.  The baseline scenario assumes a completion rate of 70%  for
undergraduates (line B) and 81% for technical students (line A), respectively. This, in turn corresponds
to a biannual drop out rate of 3.5 percent and hence a continuation rate of 96.5% in both programs.
However, the graduation rates of beneficiaries could be higher since the availability of financial aid
increases the graduation rate by relieving the need for income generation and by spurring greater
academic responsibility, ICEES(2002) and SOFES(2002).  Likewise, the initial capabilities of the
students, accredited institutions and the admission procedures are expected to improve quality and
thereby reduce drop out. The following investigation examines the financial risk from changes in
completion rates.
- 48 -



Table 6: Financial Sensitivity of changes in graduation rate
Continua   Graduation Rate     Costs   Government          Impact
-tion rate                     fper     iscal cost
per                        graduate  (NPV, US$
semester Academic Technical    US$)      millions)  Beneficiaries Graduates
100.0%   1000%      100.0%   3,643 0     63.0        75,356      75,356
99.0%    90.0%      93.9%    3,787.8     67.5        77,997      72,464
97.8%    80 0%      87.5%    3,958.3     72.4        80,993      69,332
96.5%    70.0%      80.7%    4,163.1     77.7        84,441      65,907
95.0%    60.0%      73.6%    4,416.1     83.5        88,486      62,119
93.3%    50.0%      66.0%    4,740.0     89.9        93,351      57,861
Note: Total fiscal costs computed without taking into account the reserve for increased unemployment
The biannual continuation rate has been calculated on the basis of the following model. St=St-l.(l-s)Ad,
where St represents the survivors in the semester t (So=l), s is the biannual continuation rate (s=gA(l/d))
and d. duration of the program in semesters) The hypothesis assumes an equal rate of continuation in
all semesters even though the greatest desertion normally happens in the beginning if the program.
Thus, based on the evidence presented in Table 6, the graduation rate clearly has significant implications
for financial sustainability. If the biannual continuation rate declines from 100% to 93.3%, then the
gross default rate doubles. The net default rate, in turn, grows sevenfold, because the share covered in
the interest rate (2.5 %) decreases relatively. Likewise, a 93.3% continuation rate implies a total cost of
almost US$90 million as opposed to US$63 million with a 100% continuation rate. By implication, a
low graduation rate also has implications for the impact of the program. Thus, the difference between the
worst (93.3%) and best-case scenario (100%) amounts to more than 17,000 graduates.
The financial sensitivity of drop out emphasizes the need for a sectorial approach to student loans.
Without a well-functioning quality assurance system, the student could - despite her/his best interest -
unknowingly enroll in a low quality program and consequently increase the risk of drop out and default.
This also stresses (i) the importance of giving the education institutions a financial incentive to keep drop
out at an acceptable level and (ii) the need for close scrutiny of academic performance of beneficiaries
during their studies.
5.2 Income Shocks and debt-servicing burden
Variation in the expected income of graduates naturally affects the ability to repay. The higher the debt
service ratio -installment in relation to income- the higher the non-servicing. In the period between June
1998 and June 2001 the real income of professionals and technicians fell almost 13% due to the general
economic recession (average income for the 21-50 years old). Table 7 shows a number of different
scenarios depending upon future economic development. Based on an assumption that economic growth
will have resumed when the first students graduate from the program, the monthly real income is
supposed to be back at 1998 level (basic scenario), which in turn means that installments on the loan will
take up 16% of the expected monthly income.
- 49 -



Table 7: Financial sensitivity of real income shocks
Income vs. June 1998  60%    70%    87%    91%     100%   110%   120%   130%   140%
Installments in % of  26.7% ]22.9%   18.4%  17.6%  16.0%  14.5%  13.3%  12.3%  11.4%
monthly income
Note   Income in September 2001 is the first shaded column of 87 percent of the level in 1998
Even though it is difficult to estimate the impact of a decrease in the real income on the default rate and
the economic costs, it remains without doubt that the impact would be significant. Accordingly, the
program should put substantial emphasis on the quality of the programs in order to avoid a surge in
default rates.
Summary of benefits and costs:
The annex considers five issues: Economic rationale for public intervention, The project's impact on
equity, the economic analysis behind choice of intervention, the project's fiscal impact and lastly the
financial sensitivity analysis of the student aid component. It finds:
I. Public intervention is justified due to the existence of a missing market for student loans,
externalities in tertiary education and fiscal savings.
2. Equity. The analysis shows that the project significantly increases the accessibility of tertiary
education for low-income students who otherwise could not have afforded to attend tertiary
education.
3. Cost-effectiveness. See below.
4. Fiscal savings. The fiscal savings are estimated to be in the range US$ 188.8 million to US$ 293.5
million depending upon the impact of the increased available aid on schooling choices. The fiscal
savings compare with a total public outlay of US$ 107.3 million for the entire project.
5. Financial sensitivity. The financial sensitivity analysis highlights that the sustainability (and default
rate) crucially depends upon the recovery rate, the completion rate of tertiary education and
macro-economic conditions, such as a stable real exchange rate, medium unemployment rates and
modest wage-increases.
Main Assumptions:
The calculations have been based on the following base-line assumptions:
* Default rate covered by FNG is below 2.5 %.
*   Number of beneficiaries: 84,441.
*   Costs of a technical tertiary education: Col$ 6.0 million
*   Costs of an academic tertiary education: Col$ 16.0 million
*   Unemployment rate: 16 % p.a.
*   Interest rate: 12% p.a.
- 50 -



Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Two cost-effectiveness indicators were calculated:
1. Cost-effectiveness of the project's proposed intervention with combined grants and loans compared
to a pure grant: 4
2. Cost-effectiveness of the project's proposed intervention with domestic production of PhD's
compared to foreign production: 15
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1| Year2     r Year3     Year4   | Year 5  | Year6   | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         11.5      28.9       44.8      60.8      78.0     58.7       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.4        0.8       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        11.9      29.7      45.4       61.4     78.6      58.7       0.0
Front-end fee    2.0       0.0       0.0        0.0                0.0       0.0
,Total Financing           13.9       29.7      45.4      61.4      78.6      58.7      0.0
Financing
IBRDADA                  7.2       27.1      40.3      38.6      53.9      32.9       0.0
Government               6.7        2.6       5.1      22.8      24.7      25.8       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   13.9      29.7       45.4      61.4      78.6     58.7       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in January 1999, September 1999, and
March 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the
use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include office supplies and equipment for Components I and 4
and other eligible goods totalling US$2.40 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these
goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than $250,000 equivalent and procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and Bank Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts
for goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 may be procured following National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which
cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract
may be procured using national shopping procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory
to the Bank.
Procurement of Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under National
Competitive Bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Minor civil works estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed priced contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three eligible qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The award should be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation and
also the experience and resouces needed to complete the contract successfully.
Selection of Consultants
Consultants' Services for the operation of a Labor Market Observatory, and Technical Assistance for
Education Quality Monitoring and Evaluation, Improvement of Institutional Performance, Follow-up and
Evaluation of the Access System to Tertiary Education, and individual consultants for the Project
Implementation Unit are estimated to cost US$6.49 million equivalent.
Firms
Contracts for firms estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will be procured using Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Contracts for firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may
be procured using the Consultant Qualification (CQ) method. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$
80,000 may be procured using the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
- 53 -



qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million.
Tertiary Education Loans and Grants
The criteria for allocation of financial aid will be subject to prior review at the beginning of the academic
year in Colombia (January).
Subprojects for Graduate Programs
The Loan would partially finance the cost of demand driven sub-projects for Graduate Students to be
proposed and implemented by Universities. The Project Operations Manual will include the evaluation
criteria for the selection of the sub-projects to be financed. The sub-projects would include: a) Financial
aid for graduate students up to an amount of US$15.0 million, and b) Support for finance of laboratory
equipment, access to scientific literature, and minor laboratory facilities of up to 10 percent of the grant.
The grants will average US$150,000 each with a maximum of US$300,000. Sixty-seven (67) grants are
expected to be awarded increasing the costs by US$10.0 million to the total costs to US$25.0 million
equivalent. The grants will be disbursed on a lump-sum basis following agreements to be signed with
COLCIENCIAS. Works procured under the subprojects will not exceed US$100,000 and will be
procured under NCB rules. Small works costing less than US$50,000 will be based on three quotations.
Operating Costs
The Loan would finance 50% of operating costs to include comsumable items and utilities. These
services and goods will be procured using comparison of three quotation when ever it is possible.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the ICETEX and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of
individual procurement actions, the procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank
annually.
B) Assessment of the agencies' capacity to implement procurement
ICETEX, MEN, and COLCIENCIAS will be the executing agencies of the project. The Instituto
Colombiano de Credito Educativo y Estudio Tecnicos en el Exterior (ICETEX) is a national,
decentralized public institution created in 1950 by Decree No. 2586.  It is financially and
administratively autonomous and is an entity under the Ministry of National Education (MEN).
Executive Decree No. 772 of April 1993, established the internal structure of ICETEX.
COLCIENCIAS, created by Decree 2869 in 1968, is a highly effective and efficient, independent
organization, with a staff of about 136 professionals. Procurement of goods are carried out by the
General Services Unit and consultants are selected and hired by the particular technical areas requiring
the services. COLCIENCIAS has procurement experience with IDB and at present it is implementing an
IDB project.
Procurement Cycle. Management. Procurement is carried out as needed in both institutions without
formal planning, except for budgetary planning. There are no standard bidding documents or procedures
but advertising, evaluation and selection are done as per Law 80. There will be very limited procurement
in this project as most of the Loan will consist of transfers via the Student Loans component.
Organization and Functions. ICETEX is a very solid institution with many years of experience in
managing student loans. However, the only procurement experience it has, has been limited to the
- 54 -



procurement of goods and consultants for its normal operation which is carried out by a small unit within
the Administrative Department. However, the project has hired a procurement specialist who has
extensive experience in procurement with Bank projects. The procurement specialist will be working
within the Administrative Department of ICETEX, in coordination with the General Services Unit of
COLCIENCIAS.
Support and Control Systems. Both ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS are audited by Contraloria General and
are required to keep organized controls and original records. Both agencies and the MEN have agreed to
private financial audits as requested by the Bank. There are no specific codes of ethics other than the
normal managerial supervisions and audits. During implementation of the project the anti-corruption
guidelines of the Bank will be adhered to. In addition, the Colombian project team has prepared a draft
"Manual of Operations" that stipulates the controls and reporting systems to be established between the
executing agencies (ICETEX, MEN and COLCIENCIAS).
Record-keeping. Under the direction of the Procurement Specialist, the implementing agencies will
establish liaison and record-keeping systems and procedures for the implementation of the project that
are satisfactory to the Bank.
Staffing. The procurement teams of ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS will be strengthened with the
procurement specialist hired by the project, who has extensive experience with World Bank Projects.
Also worth noting is that the Project coordinator for this project has served as project coordinator for
other World Bank Projects.
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE. The project is ELIGIBLE for FMR-based
disbursements on procurement reporting grounds in view that the project includes improvements to the
ICETEX Management Information System.
C) Procurement Plan
The Borrower has prepared a Procurement Plan which is acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate amounts
for the procurement methods (per Table A) are based on project cost estimates. At the beginning of each
calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for
the coming year.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of
the ICETEX has reconunended one full supervision mission every year thereafter to carry out post review
of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis
should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
- 55 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent) a/
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                          Total Cost
ICB           NCB          Other        N.B.F b/
1. Goods                                  1.07          1.08          0.25                           2.40
(except as covered in Categories (4)     (0.91)        (0.92)        (0.21)                          (2.04)
and (5) below)
2. Consultants' Services including                                    6.49                           6.49
Audits                                                               (4.37)                          (4.37)
3. Tertiary Education Loans and                                      250.14                         250.14
Grants under parts Al and A2 of                                      (174.9)                        (174.9)
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
4. Goods, Work, and Consultants'
Services for Doctoral Programs                                        25.0                           25.0
Sub-projects under part B of                                         (15.0)                          (15.0)
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
dl
5. Operating Costs e/                                                  1.1                            1.1
(1.1)     ________(1.1)
6. Refunding of the Project                                            0.09                           0.09
Preparation Advance (PPF)                                              (0.09)                        (0.09)
7. Front-end fee                                                       2.0                            2.0
(2.0)                          (2.0)
8. Unallocated                                                        0.50                           0.50
(0.50)                         (0.50)
Total                                  1.07          1.08         285.57                          287.72
(0.91)        (0.92)       (198.17)                        (200.0)
Foot-Notes:
a/ Figures between parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the proposed loan
b/ N B.F = Not Bank-financed
c/ Consultants Services Details provided in Table A-I
d/Demand driven sub-projects for Graduate Programs to be implemented by the universities. They include Aid
for Graduate Students to be administered by ICETEX and the support (goods, smaller works, and services) to
be procured and implemented by the universities following
an agreement to be signed with ICETEX on a lump sum basis.
e/ Cost of travel expenditures, non-consultant services and office supplies for the Project Implementation Unit
as well as for capacity
building in ICETEX, ICFES, and COLCIENCIAS
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure-Category.  OCBS   'QBS     ',SFB    "LCS      . cQ    -Other    N.B.F. ITotalCost
A. Firms                1.98     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.23     0.00      6.21
(1.33)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (2.85)  (0.00)    (4.18)
B. Individuals          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.08     0.20     0.00     0.00      0.28
(0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)    (0.14)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (0. 1 9)
Total   1.98     0.00     0.00    0.08      0.20     4.23    0.00      6.49
(1.33)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)    (0.14)   (2.85)  (0.00)    (4.37)
Including contingencies
Note. QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category                 Contract Value        Procurement Method      Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)                                    Prior Review
US$                                        US $ millions
1. Goods                               > 250,000                     ICB            All
< 250,000                     NCB            >100,000
<50,000                     Shopping         First two
2. Consultants services including Audits
Firms                                  > 100,000                     QCBS           All:
< 100,000                      CQ            All contracts estimated
costs >80,000
< 80,000                       LCS           None
Individuals                            > 30,000 & sole sources See Section V of Guidelines All (TOR, contract, CV)
< 30,000                                     None
4. Goods, Work, and Consultants'
Services for Doctoral Programs
Sub-projects under part B of Schedule 2 of
the Loan Agreement
Works                                  < 100,000                     NCB             First two
Smaller Works                         < 50,000                Three (3) quotations  First two (>25,000)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 nmonth' (includes special procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of I in 5 contracts signed
- 57 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Although ICETEX, COLCENCIAS and the Ministry of Education have the qualified specialists and an
adequate infrastructure to take care of the financial management of the project, there is a need to organize
an appropriate setup in the case of ICETEX, due to the ongoing restructuring process. Even after the
existing ICETEX specialists that will be in charge of the financial management of the project have been
identified and assigned to the project, it will be necessary to train them in the specific requirements of
Bank's financial procedures for projects and to define clearly the extent of their involvement on a full
time basis. The Bank will provide technical support and financing from the remaining funds of the
Project Preparation Advance (PPF) number P-380-CO, and from the Japanese Policy and Human
Development Program (PHRD) Grant Number TF051142 to assist the Borrower in having this
financial management system sufficiently operative by the Effectiveness Date.
ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS and the Ministry of Education have a suitable organizational structure to carry
out the financial management of the project and provide the required financial information, with their
existing Financial Departments divided into a Budget Unit, an Accounts Unit, and an Accounting Unit
plus, in the case of ICETEX, a Portfolio Unit and a Savings Bonds Unit, and a Foreign Accounts Unit in
the case of COLCIENCIAS. They have competent staff able to handle all the financial requirements of
public entities. Independently to the human resources each executing agency will assign for the project
as mentioned above, a project coordination unit will be setup. See the organizational chart agreed for the
project coordination unit and attached to this annex. Some limited external technical assistance (provided
by local consultants) could be envisaged to help ICETEX with its transition after the Project
Coordination Unit is setup.
Accounting: Accounting and budgetary records will be maintained in accordance with the Colombian
government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. However, for Bank monitoring purposes
ICETEX will report on detailed information at the project level, specifically the expenditures classified
by activities/subcomponent and disbursement category and be established in the operational manual of
the project.
2. Audit Arrangements
Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference both acceptable to the Bank.
ICETEX will appoint the auditors by loan effectiveness, with an annual contract to be renewed during the
first quarter of each subsequent year. ICETEX will prepare, if needed , an action plan to address any
issues and recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow -up activities
would be communicated to the Bank. The audit would be financed by the loan. The external auditors will
perform quarterly interim audit reviews which would include the review of the financial monitoring
reports as part of the annual financial statements accordingly to the terms of reference to be prepared.
The recruitment of the external audit firm will be considered as a condition of effectiveness.
Operational Manual And Internal Control Arrangements. A financial and administrative operational
manual will be prepared before effectiveness. The internal control system and a management operational
matrix will be included as part of the operational manual. The operational manual will be considered as a
condition of effectiveness.
- 58 -



Financial Information Systems and Archive. The financial information system has to be implemented
by the project coordination unit at ICETEX and will provide information related to the project
consolidated financial statements. The information will flow from the different executing agencies to the
project coordination unit on a permanent basis, in order to provide timeiy, accurate and efficient
information about the project as a whole (including loan resources and counterpart funds). A copy of all
the financial information will be maintain at the project coordination unit. The information system
readiness will be considered as a condition of effectiveness.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
ICETEX will be responsible for transferring the financial resources needed by COLCIENCIAS and the
Ministry of Education on the basis of the agreed annual implementation plan. ICETEX will also utilize
directly the resources needed to implement the student loan part of the project by transferring the
corresponding funds to the participating universities. The flow of funds will be described in detail in the
Operational Manual.
The project will start with SOEs and at the end of the first year the Bank will assess the capability of the
project unit to introduce the use of FMRs. The project will open a Project account until the Govemment
and the Bank agree to use the Special Account for the portfolio project's in Colombia. This will happen
when the SIIF will be in place and in a satisfactory way to the Bank.
ESTRUCTURA D EL PRO VECTO DE ACCESO CON CALIDAD                 A LA
EDUCACION SUPERIOR
ACCESO CON CALIDADALAEOUCACION SUPERIOR
C(,-O!E.JO N AC I NA L
POLITICASY SUJ1WEhrrTD
[bAlf~O iTOrEdPFRNCI1A
UNIQLPAD PE  ThN t.L' DA9 OPER       nTVA    UNiOAD GRERATIVAs
CDLJCIF1                 I C        2           ICF 
EJOIRECTOA
ENCAR~3AIIJ    -W-AYROADC)         ENCARcIO     K.
; ~      ~~ .   NACER   D rS AlE  -~   ~   I :   Ae 
'1~ADNIANISTRATW         T - T  [CA
".' ',-00,'.R"A j rD C4RG (3              :' .  ' GA1'O 
~ P'1O~ O : ACtD  ioti |USCC4 ' N4IL
- 59 -



Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                   2.05         100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
(except as covered in Categories (4)                    local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
and (5) below)                                            84% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. Consultants' Services including         4.36                        73%
audits
(except as covered in Categories (4)
and (5) below)
3. Tertiary Education Loans and Grants    174.90         85% until disbursements have reached
under parts A. I and A.2 of Schedule 2                   US$ 87.45 million and 65% thereafter
of the Loan Agreement
4. Goods, Work, and Consultants'          15.00                        65%
Services for Doctoral Programs
Subprojects under part B of Schedule 2
of the Loan Agreement
5. Operating Costs                         1.10                        50%
6. Refunding of the Project Preparation    0.09
Advance (PPF) a/
7. Unallocated                             0.50
Total Project Costs                       198.00
Front-end fee         2.00
Total                                     200.00
a/ The table shows the loan proceeds rounded off to US$ million with two decimals. For example, the
refunding of the Project Preparation Advance(PPF) is rounded off from the amount of US$ 86,000 to
US$ 0.09 million.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Borrower and the Bank has decided to use Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) based disbursement
procedures, however the project will use traditional disbursement until the project is ready to migrate
from traditional disbursement procedures to FMRs. Full documentation for expenditures under contracts
requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted with the corresponding withdrawal application.
Disbursements for contracts below procurement prior review thresholds be presented on the basis of
SOEs.
Special account:
The project will start with a Project account until the government and the Bank agree to use Special
Accounts for projects under the portfolio in Colombia. This will happen when the Colombian Treasury
Information System will be in place and operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Project Schedule,,',                             Planned                  ,,,,,Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     10                          14.5
First Bank mission (identification)            08/30/2001                  08/30/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    06/30/2002                  11/04/2002
Negotiations                                   09/15/2002                  11/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/31/2003
Prepared by:
DNP; ICFES; COLCIENCIAS; ICETEX; MEN
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   -Speciality
Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen           Lead Higher Education, Science and Technology Specialist, Task
Manager, LCSHD
Martha Laverde                    Sr. Education Specialist; Institutional Analysis and Project
Management, LCSHD
Andreas Blom                      Consultant; Components/Economic and Financial Analysis, LCSHD
Robin De Pietro-Jurand            Consultant; Components/ Quality and Capacity Building, LCSHD
Samia Benbouzid                   Language Team Assistant, LCSHD
Maria Lucy Giraldo/Marcelo        Sr. Procurement Specialist; Procurement Consultant; Procurement
Osorio/Jose Martinez              Specialist, LCOPR
Luis Schwarz/Otto Bolafios        Sr. Financial Management Specialist, Financial Management, LCOAA
Joseph Formoso                    Sr. Finance Officer, LOAG3
Eduardo Brito                     Sr. Counsel, LEGLA
William Saint                     Lead Education Specialist, AFTH3, Peer Reviewer
Carlos Eduardo Velez              Sr. Economist, LCSPP, Peer Reviewer
Jamil Salmi                       Education Sector Manager, HDNED, Peer Reviewer
Patricia Mc Kenzie                Sr. Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA
Eduardo Aldana                    Consultant
Jose Joaquin Brunner              Consultant
Maria Jose Lemaitre               Consultant
Juan Carlos Del Bello             Consultant
Isabel Cristina Jaramillo         Consultant
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
A. Project Implementation Plan
Accesso con Calidad a la Educaci6n Superior en Colombia - PIP (ICETEX/COLCEENCIAS/MEN,
octubre de 2002)
Analisis de Credito Estudiantil (Hugo Lopez, DNP, mayo de 2002)
Sistema de Aseguramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Superior (Hernan Jaramillo, ICFES/DNP, mayo
de 2002)
Programa de Financiaci6n de las Matriculas de Educaci6n Superior (DNP/MEN, abril de 2002)
Propuesta Tecnica de la Financiaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior (DNP/MEN, enero de 2002)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Colombia Higher Education Sector Study: Paving the Way for Reform (Volume I)
Quality Assurance in Colombia by Robin De Pietro-Jurand and Maria Jose Lemaitre del Campo
Economic Perspectives of Higher Education in Colombia by Andreas Blom and Thomas Hansen
Science and Technology in Colombia: Status and Perspectives by Natalia Agapitova, Lauritz
Holm-Nielsen and Goga Vukrnirovic
The Internalization of Colombian Universities by Isabel Cristina Jaramillo and Andreas Blom
Institutional Assessment by Martha Laverde
C. Other
DOCUMENT TITLE                                                             DATE
GENERAL BACKGROUND DOCUMENT
The Political Economy of Higher Education Reform by Juan Carlos Del Bello  March 2002
Colombia Poverty Report (Colombia Country Management Unit; PREM Sector     March 2002
Management Unit
With regards to Governance
Colombian Higher Education in the Context of Reform in Latin America by Jose Joaquin  April 2002
Brunner
With regards to Student Financing
Programa de Financiaci6n de la Educaci6n Supenor Nuevos Recursos para un Milenio  February 2002
ICETEX (9 folios)
Beneficiarios de cartera en amortizaci6n por areas de estudio en cada Regi6n ICETEX (36  February 2002
folios)
Creditos educativos individuales con recursos del Banco Mundial ICETEX (4 folios)  February 2002
Tabla de simulaci6n Banco Mundial ICETEX (4 folios)                        February 2002
Desempleo en Colombia ICETEX (46 folios)                                   February 2002
Informe encuesta beneficianos credito educativo ICETEX (4 folios)          February 2002
Encuestas ICETEX (59 folios)                                               February 2002
An Economic Interpretation of Targeting Systems for Social Programs:The Case of  March 1995
Colombia's SISBEN By Carlos Eduardo Velez, Elkin Castanio and Ruthanne Deutsch
Reforming Student Financial Aid in Colombia: Issues and Alternatives by Arthur Hauptman April 2002
*Including electronic files
- 62 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
04-Nov-2002
DiHerence between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel    Undisb       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P057369       2002 CO Judicial Resolution Improvement Prj          5 00      0 00                 0 00      0 00       4 69      1 09      0 00
P057692       2002 2nd Magdalena Medio Project (LIL)               5 00       0 00                000       0 00       2 82     -0 01      0 00
P065937       2002 CO WATER SECTOR REF ASSISTANCE PROJEC          40 00       0 00                0 00      0 00      39 00      7 67      0 00
P041642       2002 CO PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS                     32 00       0 00                0 00      0 00      29 69     -2 31      0 00
P073572       2002 CO Structural Fiscal Adjusiment Loan          400 00       0 00                0 00      0 oo      60 oo      0 00      0 00
P069964       2001 CO- Human Capital Prot - Cash Transfers       150 00       0 00                000       0 00     127 54    -22 46      0 00
P040109       2001 CO PUBLIC FINANC MANAGEMENT PROJECT             35 47      0 00                0 00       0 00     33 74     -1 73      0 00
P063317       2001 GEF CO-HIGH ANDES                               0 00       0 00               15 00       0 00     1419       3 73      0 00
P068762       2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA           100 00      0 00                000        0 00     82 40     53 07       0 00
P057326       2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMEN            5 00       0 00                0 00       0 00      3 59     -1 41      0 00
P044140       2000 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE ENV          85 00       0 00                0 00       0 00     62 89     40 92      0 00
P050578       2000 CO RURAL EDUCATION                             2000        000                 000        000      1778      1015       000
P050576       1999 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                           5 00       0 00                000        0 00      217       2 17       0 00
P006891       1998 CO ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                         40 00       0 00                0 00       0 00     13 19     12 21       312
P006861       1998 CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                         75 00      0 00                0 00      26 00     2143      39 27       0 00
P046112       1998 COPASTOEDUCATION                                720        000                 000        000       284       284        127
P053243       1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES (LIL)                  5 00       0 00                0 00       0 00      2 11      2 11       0 08
P040102       1997 REGREFTA                                        1250       000                 000        000       360       360        000
P006884       1997 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                   15 00      0 00                0 00       5 50      2 14      7 64       2 14
P039291       1996 URBAN ENVIRONMENTTA(TAL)                       2000        000                 000        000       134       134        134
P006894       1996 SANTAFE I (Water/Supply)                       145 00      0 00                0 00       0 00     34 96     34 96       0 00
P006880       1995 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                            3600       000                 000        000       668       668       -822
Total     1238 17       0 00              15 00       31 50     568 82    201 55      -0 26
- 63 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             EFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
2002               BCSC                           0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0 00
2002               Bavaria                       70.00    0.00   30 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                  0.00     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               CHMC                           0.00   10.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.02    0.00    0.00
1974/01            Cementos Caribe               4 05    10 00    0.00   12.95    4 05   10.00    0.00    12 95
1963/90            Coltejer                      6 02     0.00    0.00    0.00    6 02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                   25.00     1.49   23.51    0.00    0.00    1.49   23 51    0.00
2002               Inversura                      0.00   15 00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00     0.00   0.00
1987               PRODESAL                      0.00     0.59    0.00    0.00    0 00    0 59    0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                      5.00     0.00    0.00    8.33    5.00    0.00    0.00    8.33
0/94/95            Promisan                       0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20     0 00    0.00
2002               Proteccion                     0.00   10 00    0.00    0 00    0 00    0.00     0.00    0 00
1996               Proyectos                     0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00    000     5.00    0.00    000
2002               SIG                           75 00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00
1999               Surenting                      0 00    5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00
2001               Tolcemento                     3.33    0.00    0.00    10.67   0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00
Total Portfolio:       188.40   65.01    53.51   31.95    15.07  23 80    23.51   21.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               CCGF                             0.00      0.00     19.00     0.00
2002               Bavaria                          0 00      0.00      0 00    200.00
2002               Omnmex Oil                      30.00      5.00      0.00     0.00
2001               CHMC                             0.00     10.00     19.38     0 00
Total Pending Commitment.        30.00    15.00     38 38    200.00
- 64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America    middle-
Colombia    & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                      43 0       524      2,164                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,890     3,560     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      81 5     1,862     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%S)                                        18        15        10
Labor force (%)                                        2 7       2 2       1 2     GNI     ,                       Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199501)                               caprta                      enrollment
Povertv (% of populabton below national poverty Ine)
Urban population (% of total population)               75        76        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               20         29       33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              7          9        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   91         85       80
Illiteracv (% of population aqe 15+)                    8         11        15
GrossprimarVenrollment (%ofschool-aqepopulation)      112        130       107        -  Colombia
Male                                                112        131      107              Lower-middle-incomegroup
Female                                              112        128      107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           36 4     41 5      83.2      82 4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                20.6     159       134       149
Exports of qoods and services/GDP            119      213       19 9      194                     Trade
Grossdomesticsavinqs/GDP                     170      234       137       153
Gross national savings/GDP                   16 5     23 1      12 3      14.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -4 7      5 7       0 4      -2 2     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         1.3      3 4       2 5       2 5        stic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               240      415       41.0      451      savings
Total debt service/exports                   20 7     36 3      29 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                       40 2
Present value of debt/exports                                  193.7
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3 8      2 5      2 6       14        23          -Colombia
GDP per capita                       1 7      0 6      0.7      -0.3       0 6               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        9 4      4.8      3.3       4 1       2 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of investment and GDP t%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                 .19.8     174       134       130
Industry                                     31.5     37.1      30 1      29 9      o
Manufacturinq                              219      209        159       163     -20 9o                             01
Services                                     48 7     45 4      56 5      57 1     go4or
Private consumption                         72 5      67 4      64 6      63 6     o6
General qovemment consumption                104       92       21 8      21 1                    G      -   GDP
Imports ot qoods and services                15 4     13 9      19 6      19 0
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growvth)
Aqriculture                                   3 3     -18        4 7       01      1S
Industry                                      5 2      1.2       4 4      -01
Manufacturinq                               3 9     -21        10 5      -0 8     o                                 0l
Services                                      3 2      3 8       12        21
Pnvate consumption                            2 8      1 9       2 6       1 9
General govemment consumption                 4.4      9 6       -2 1      0 3     -30
Gross domestic investment                     0.6     -0 3      12 3       9 6             -   Expons     - 0 imports
Imports of qoods and services                 0 8      6 3       4 4      11 2
Note 2001 data are prelminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will be mcomplete
- 65 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                2
(% change)                                                                     25
Consumer pnces                             27 3    26 8       8a7      6 5                  50
Implicit GDP deflator                      22 8    26 0      13 6      7 6     is.
10.
Government finance                                                             s -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            0 
Currentrevenue                                     141       118      133             96    97    98   99    00    01
Current budqet balance                              4 8      -5 2      -5 0           -GDP deflator      *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             2 6      -6 0      -6 1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1981     1991     2000      2001     Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       3,195   7,653    13,115   12,309     2000
Coffee                                   1,423   1,336     1,069     764
Petroleum                                  36    1,460    4,569     3,083    15,000
Manufactures                              928    2,400    5,190     5,606
Total imports (cif)                       5,199   4,963    11,538   12,834 1*
Food                                      319     280     1,428     1,578     sooo
Fuel and energy                           726     284       234      189
Capital qoods                            1,859   1.565    3,414     4,468       o
95  96   97   98  99   00   01
Export price index (1995=100)                8       59      247       243
Import price index (1995=100)                7       63       193      209                U Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   118      94       128      116
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of qoods and services             4.678   9,115    15,624   14,932     2
Imports of goods and services             6,215   6,633    14,400   15,840
Resource balance                         -1,537   2,482     1,224     -908     0
Net income                                 -427   -1,832   -2,530    -2,975                            99   00
Net current translers                      243     1,697    1,662    2,094     2
Current account balance                  -1,721   2,347       356    -1,789    -4
Financing items (net)                     1,284    -298       513    2,955
Chanqes in net reserves                     437   -2,049     -869    -1.166   *6
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)                      9,006    10,245
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           54 5   629 3    2,087 6  2,299 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed      8,716   17,201   34,081    37,129
IBRD                                    1,164   3,728     1,920    2,006                      A 2,006
IDA                                       21       14         7        7               G 3,795       B 7
Total debt service                        1,120    3,755    5,171                            -   I I    <             l
IBRD                                      161     798       368      365         |   /,
IDA                                         1       1         1        1
Composition of net resource flows                                               F 10,453                    )
Official qrants                             7      68        79
Official creditors                        277    -150       102      203
Private creditors                       1,127    -270       728                                         D 20.868
Foreiqn direct investment                265      457     2,376    2,328
Portfolio equity                            0       0        26    3,380
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                 0      60       350      635      A - IBRO                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            251      301       266      368      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral F - Private
Principal repayments                      77      492       243      233      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                 174    -191        24      135
Interest payments                         85      307       127      133
Net transfers                             89     -498      -103        3
ueveiopment tconomics                                                                                          vi14IU2
- 66 -



Additional Annex 11: Targeting Mechanisms for Low Income Students
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
General Selection Criteria
All students eligible for financial aid under the project must meet the following criteria:
*      Hold an identity card (cedula de ciudadania),
*      Be admitted to an approved educational institution.
There exists no academic criteria besides those required for entry into the education institutions. All
proposed lines of credit will have an explicit poverty focus and priority will therefore be given to low
income students. The rest of this annex discuss the assessment of financial need and hence the selection
of low income students.
Methodology
In order to ensure that the poverty criterion is enforced successfully, the SISBEN index, developed by the
Colombian Govemment, will be applied.
The SISBEN index consists of 14 items which all provide information about the socio-economic welfare
of Colombian households. The items are grouped into four different areas: (i) Years of schooling, social
security, size of workplace (if any), (ii) number of children and rooms in household, employment and
income, (iii) housing material and appliances, and finally (iv) access to public utilities. Accordingly,
most of the items in the index can be perceived as proxies for the level of income, which, unlike actual
level of income, have the advantage of being easily verifiable.
The items have been accorded different weights reflecting the degree to which the different items convey
information about the real underlying variable. Furthermore, different sets of weights have been
calculated for urban and rural zones respectively. The scale of the index ranges from 0-100, where 100
represents the highest level of socio-economic welfare and 0 the minimum level.
The final score on the index is subsequently divided into six strata reflecting variation in the severity of
poverty. The poorest level (level 1) roughly corresponds to the domestic level of extreme poverty,
whereas level 2 corresponds to traditional definitions of poverty. Table I provides a comparison between
poverty levels defined by SISBEN and income level respectively. However, the specific cut-off point to
be used within the Student Aid Program is to be determined by the National Coordinator based on studies
of the coverage of various cut-off points.
- 67 -



Tabel 1: Prediction of poverty based SISBEN strata (1 and 2) compared to distribution by income level
Strata        Max points  Predicted share of population  By income (%)
by strata (%)
URBAN
1: Extreme Poverty    35.8                4.9                     9.9
2: Poverty        47.4                15.5                    37.0
RURAL
I :Extreme Poverty   18.0                23.0                    32.7
2: Poverty        29.9                32.7                    65.0
Source Velez et al, 1999
The SISBEN survey covered nearly 40% of the population as of 1996. These 40% in turn represented all
departments and more than 90% of the municipalities. In June 1998 the coverage of municipalities had
further increased to 98%. The distribution between rural and urban zones in turn, was 40% and 60%,
respectively. However, given the large urban concentration of the Colombian population only 30% of the
urban population was surveyed, whereas the rural coverage was slightly under 40%. As reported in Table
2, approximately 70% of the sample are classified as either extreme poor or poor (strata I + strata 2).
Among the rural sample approximately 80% belong to the two lower categories, whereas the share of
poor and extreme poor is close to 2/3 in the urban zone.
Table 2: Total SISBEN Population by Strata, Urban and rural population.
SISBEN       Coverage of    Stratum I     Stratum 2     Strata 3-6
Population    total (%)
National Total  12,208,122      32%           29.2%         39.2%         32.6%
Urban Total    7,735,114       28%          24.6%         38.2%          37.2%
Rural Total  I 11,758,788      38%          37.2%          41.1%         21.7%
Source Velez et al, 1999
The SISBEN index has been used widely in Colombia due to numerous factors such as its ease of use and
low operating costs. Still, the fact that it is used widely and is highly operational does not imply that it is
a valid measure of socio-economic welfare. For example, the fact that the index includes metric as well
as categorical data presents a challenge. However, Velez et al. (1999) put the index to a test and found
that the index performs well and is successful in transforming valuable categorical data into metrical
data, which significantly enhances the validity of the measure (C. E. Velez, E. Castafna and R. Deutsch,
An Economic Interpretation of Targeting Systems for Social Programs: The Case of Colombia's SISBEN.
May 1999).
SISBEN is hence an appropriate mechanism for assessing the financial needs of students and therefore
valid as a base for awarding student financial aid.
- 68 -



Additional Annex 12: References
COLOMBIA: Higher Education - Improving Access
Albrecht, D. and Ziderman, A., "Deferred Cost Recovery for Higher Education; Student Loans Programs
in Developing Countries", World Bank Discussion paper 137, Washington D.C. (1991)
Aldana, E. "Tendencias, Retos y Mitos de la Educaci6n Superior en Colombia", Universidad de los
Andes, Bogota, Colombia (junio 2001).
Asociaci6n Panamericana de Instituciones de Credito Educativo (APICE) "El Credito Educativo como
Inversi6n Social Permanente" Bogota, Clombia (1999);
APICE "Sostenibilidad Financiera y Gerencia Social del Credito Educativo" Bogota, Clombia (1999).
APICE "El Credito Educativo - Una Alternativa para la Educaci6n Superior" Bogota, Clombia (1997).
APICE "El Credito Educativo y la Excelencia Academica" Bogota, Clombia (1993).
APICE "El Sector Privado, Su Aporte al Credito Educativo y a la Educaci6n Superior" Bogota, Clombia
(1993).
Asociaci6n Colombiana de Universidades (ASCUN) "Cuademos Ascun" (2001).
Atria R., Cox C., Diaz E., Gonzalez L.E., Lavados H., Maltes S., Muga A., Rojas F., Vidal F. "La
Educaci6n Superior en Chile: Un Sistema en Transici6n", Colecci6n Foro de la Educaci6n Superior,
Santiago de Chile 1990.
Balan J.; Brunner J.J.; Cox C.; Kent R.; Klein L.; Lucio R.; Schwartzman S.; Serrano M. "Politicas
Comparadas de Educaci6n Superior en America Latina" Santiago de Chile (1993).
Barr N., "A Strategy For Financing Tertiary Education - Submission to the Education and Science Select
Committee Inquiry into the Resourcing of Tertiary Education"(Department of Economics, London
School of Economics and Political Science) (July 2000).
Blom A., Holm-Nielsen, L., Verner D. "Education, Earnings and Inequality in Brazil, 1982-98
-Implications for Educacion Policy", The World Bank (Latin America and the Caribbean Region
-Education Sector Unit) (October 2001).
Blom A, Velez C.E. "The Dynamics of the Skill-premium in Brazil; Growing Demand and Insufficient
Supply?", Background paper to "Inequality in Brazil", World Bank (2001)
Brunner, J.J. "Tiempo de Innovar, Politicas Innovativas" Universidad de los Andes, Bogota Colombia
(junio 2001)
Cameron S., Heckman J. "The Dynamics Of Educational Attainment for Black, Hispanic, and White
Males" Journal of Political Economy (2001).
Cardenas J.H., Gutierrez M.L. & Perez A. "Alternativas para la Educaci6n Doctoral en Colombia"
Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia (unio 2001).
Carrington and Detragiache "How Extensive Is Brain Drain?" Finance and Development; Washington;
June 1999.
Chapman B., Nicholls J. "Income Contingent Loan Mechanisms for Higher Education - Financing:
Implication for Developing Countries" (draft paper 2002)
Centro Interuniversitario de Desarrollo (CINDA) "Programas de Posgrado- en Argentina, Brasil y Chile:
Caracteristicas y Proyecciones" Santiago de Chile (Abril 1996)
- 69 -



CINDA "Manual de Gestion de la Cooperaci6n Internacional"(1992).
CINDA "Cooperaci6n Internacional y Desarrollo Cientifico-Tecnologico Universitario - Impacto y
Perspectivas" (1996).
Consejo Nacional de Acreditaci6n (CNA) "Programas Acreditados" Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional
(Catalogo 2000)
CNA "Lineamientos para la Acreditaci6n" (1998)
CNA "Criterios y Procedimientos Para El Registro Calificado de Programas Academicos de Pregrado en
Ciencias de la Salud" (2001)
CNA "Criterios y Procedimientos para el Registro Calificado de Programas Academicos de Inegenieria"
CNA 02"
CNA "Criterios y Procedimientos para la Acreditaci6n Previa de los Programas Acad6micos de Pregrado
y de Especializaci6n en Educaci6n" Gufa de Procedimiento - CNA 02"(Segunda Edici6n)
CNA "Autoevaluaci6n con Fines de Acreditaci6n de Programas de Pregrado- Gufa de
Procedimiento - CNA 02"(Segunda Edici6n).
CNA "Gufa para la Evaluaci6n Extema con Fines de Acreditaci6n de Programas Academicos de
Pregrados- Gufa de Procedimiento - CNA -03" Bogota, Colombia (Diciembre 1997).
CNA "Apreciaci6n de Condiciones Iniciales - Gufa de Procedimiento - CNAO1) (Segunda Edici6n)
Bogota, Colombia (1998).
CNA "La Evaluaci6n Externa en el Contexto de la Acreditaci6n en Colombia" Bogota Colobombia
(1998).
De Ferranti, Perry, Lederman, and Maloney (2001), "From Natural Resources to the Knowledge
Economy; Trade and Job Quality", The World Bank Latin American Studies, Washington, DC.
Departamento de Politica do Ensino Superior (DEPES), Ministerio da Educacao e do Desporto (MEC)
"Avalia,ao Das Condi,oes De Oferta De cursos de Graduacao"( Relatorio Sintese 1998).
Desormeaux J., Hacette D., Koljatic M. Sanfuentes A. "Financiamiento de la Educacion Superior
Antecedentes y Desaffos" (Colecci6n Foro de la Educaci6n Superior) Santiago de Chile (1990).
Dynarski S. M, "Does Aid Matter? Measuring The Effect of Student Aid on College Attendance and
Completion" National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER Working Paper) November 1999)
Dynarski S. M "Hope For Whom? Financial Aid For the Middle Class and its Impact on College
Attendance" (NBER Working Paper (June 2000).
Easterly, W. and Levine, R. (2000) "It's Not Factor Accumulation: Stylized Facts and Growth Models.
El-Khawas E., DePietro-Jurand R., Holm-Nielsen L., "El Control de Calidad en la Educaci6n Superior:
Avances recientes y dificultades por superar" The World Bank (1998).
Fondo De Desarrollo De la Educaci6n Superior (FODESP) "Informe anual 2000".
Gacel-Avila J. "Internacionalizaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior en America Latina y el Caribe -
Reflexiones y Lineamientos" Organizaci6n Universitaria Interamericana (1999).
Garcia Guadilla C. "Situaci6n y Principales Dinamicas de Transformaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior en
America Latina"(Universidad de los Andes) Bogota Colombia (1997)
- 70 -



G6mez Campo, V.M. "Necesidad de Alternativas a la Universidad Tradicional en Colombia",
Universidad Nacional de Colombia Departamento de Sociologia, Bogota Colombia (junio 2001).
G6mez Campo, V.M. "Evoluci6n Y Estado Actual del Pensamiento Sobre Educaci6n T6cnica y
Tecnol6gica del nivel superior en Colombia", Asociaci6n Colombiana de Universidades (ASCUN) &
Instituto Colombiano para El Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES), Bogota Colombia (1997).
G6mez H., Jaramullo H. "37 modos de hacer ciencia en America Latina"COLCIENCIAS; Bogota,
Colombia (1997).
Hauptman A., Cao S., Asian Development Bank Consultants, "Student Financial Aid in Philippine HE: A
Framework for Reform", prepared as part of a Asian Development Bank-funded Project Preparation
Technical Assistance.
Johnstone, B. , Arora, A. and Experton W., "The Financing and Management of Higher Education: A
Status Report on Worldwide Reforms", World Bank Working Paper, Department for Human - 25 -.
Development in Latin America and Caribbean Region.
Instituto Colombiano de Estudios Tecnicos en el Exterior (ICETEX) "Condiciones E Impacto Del
Credito Educativo" (septiembre 2001) & "Informe de Labores 2000".
Instituto Colombiano Para El Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES) "Altemativas para la
Formaci6n Doctoral en Colombia" Bogota, Colombia (2001).
Instituto Colombiano Para El Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES) "Estandares Minimos De
Calidad Para La Creaci6n y Funcionamiento de Programas Universitarios de Pregrados", agosto (2001).
Instituto Colombiano Para El Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES) "Informe de Gesti6n del
Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n Superior (CESU) 2000-2002" (2001).
Inter.-American Development Bank (IADB) - Social Programs Divisi6n and Sustainable Development
Department "Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean: A Strategy Paper"(Draft 10/4/96)
Roman Mayorga (IADB) "Cerrrando la Brecha" (1997)
Roman Mayorga "Science and Tecnology for Development: An IDB Strategy (Sustainable Development
Department Sector Strategy and Policy Papers Series - April 2001).
Lopez Castafio, H. "El Mercado Laboral de los Profesionales en Colombia", Medellin, Colombia (Julio
1990)
Lopez Castano, H. "La Financiaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior - Necesidad de un sistema de credito
estudiantil y alternativas para su montaje", Universidad de los Andes, Bogota Colombia (junio 2001).
Ministerio Planificaci6n y Cooperaci6n (Mideplan) "Iniciativa Cientifica del Milenio"- Memoria
Bianual"( 1999/2000).
Ministerio de Educaci6n Superior (MECESUP) "Revista de la Educaci6n Superior Chilena"(2000).
Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional (MEN) "Decreto Numero 916 de 2001" and various other decrees,
Colombia (2001).
Neave, Guy, "The evaluative state reconsidered". European Journal of Education, vol 33, no. 3, pp
265-284. (1998).
Noguera Calder6n C., Linares Prieto P., "El Proceso de Construcci6n de las Bases de la Educaci6n
Superior: Una Tarea Inconclusa de la Sociedad", Asociaci6n Colombiana de Universidades (ASCUN) &
Instituto Colombiano para El Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES), Bogota Colombia (1998).
- 71 -



Office of Science and Technology "Universities in the Future" (July 1999).
Orozco Silva L.E. "Educaci6n Superior - Desaffo Global y Respuesta Nacional - Tomos I y II"
-Universidad de los Andes -Facultad de Administraci6n Magister en Direcci6n Universitaria, Colombia
(2001).
Partnership for Educational Revitalization in the Americas (PREAL) "Lagging Behind - a Report Card
on Education in Latin America" ( A Report of the Task Force on Education, Equity, and Economic
Competitiveness in the Americas) (2001).
Phelps, Marianne, "Accreditation and the Quality Assurance System for Higher Education in the
Philippines". Philippines education sector development program. The Asian Development Bank. (2001)
Riverso Cornejo L.; Sapag Chain N. "Retos y Dilemas de la Gesti6n universitaria" Universidad de Chile;
Facultad de Ciencias Econ6micas y Administrativas; Centro de Investigaci6n Aplicada para el Desarrollo
de la Empresa (CIADE); (Santiago de Chile, Septiembre (1996).
Salmi J. (1999) "Student Loan in an International Perspective: The World Bank Experience", World
Bank Working paper, Department for Human Development in Latin America and Caribbean Region.
Salmi J.; Martin C. J.; Neave G.; Albomoz O.; Guadilla C.; Barrow C.; Guerrero J.; Jimenez E.; Morin
E.; Tunnerman C.; Aponte E. (Universidad de Guadalajara - Centro Universitario de Ciencias Sociales y
Humanidades - Departamento de Estudios del Hombre) "Las Universidades de hoy : Su perspectiva
futura" Numero 12 (2000)
Samper Pizano E.; Niio Diez J.; Munioz Uribe L.C. "Hacia una Agenda de Transformaci6n de la
Educaci6n Superior: Planteamientos y Recomendaciones" ICFES 1997.
Sanchez Martinez E. "La Educacion Superior en la Argentina: Transformaciones, Debates, Desafios",
Ministerio de Cultura y Educaci6n, Secretaria de Politicas Universitarias, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1999.
Secretaria de Educaci6n, Alcaldia Mayor de Bogota "Construyendo Pedagogia: Estandares Basicos para
Construcciones Escolares" (2000).
Secretaria de Educaci6n, Alcaldia Mayor de Bogota "Evaluar para mejorar la Educaci6n"(Libros de
Cambio) (2001).
Secretaria de Educaci6n, Alcaldia Mayor de Bogota "Plan Sectorial de Educaci6n 2001-2004" (2001).
Simon Schwartzman "Demand and Supli of Higher Education in Latin America" - World Bank (2002)
Tellez Fuentes J., Rodriguez Orostegui F. "El Credito Educativo en America Latina: Situaci6n Actual y
Futuros Desafios", Asociaci6n Panamericana de Instituciones de Credito Educativo (APICE), Bogota
Colombia (Agosto 2001).
Ugalde L. S.J. "Educaci6n y Producci6n de la Venezuela necesaria" (Caracas 1997).
Vallejo C., Rojas J.M., (Investigadores) & Orozco L.E. (Asesor) Fundaci6n Para La Educaci6n Superior
y El Desarrollo (FEDESARROLLO) "Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Tecnica y Tecnol6gica: Diagnostico y
Recomendaciones", Bogota, Colombia (julio 1996).
Wellman, Jane "Assessing state accountability systems." Change, April 2001, pp 47-52. (2001).
World Bank "Constructing Knowledge Societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education", The World
Bank, Washington, D.C. (2001).
World Bank Colombia: Poverty Report (March 2002)
World Bank "Educational Change in Latin America and the Caribbean" (2000).
- 72 -



World Bank, "Brazil: Higher Education Sector Study) Volume I & II. (June 30, 2000).
World Bank, "China: Higher Education Reform" (1997).
World Bank, "Republic of Tunisia: Higher Education: Challenges and Opportunities" (1997).
Ziderman A. "The Student Loans Scheme in Thailand: A Review and Recommendations for Efficient
and Equitable Functioning of the Scheme" prepared for UNESCO-Bangkok (Bar Ilan University, Israel,
July 1999).
Zuleta G.S., "Autonomfa Universitaria" Colegio Mayor de Nuestra Seiiora del Rosario, Universidad de
los Andes, Bogota, Colombia (2001).
- 73 -



- 74 -



R~~ochocha ~~~COLOMBIA   -  P 
~~~cnqu  i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~de Bogota 
*9r  - ) I 7 1 T  R    R.          BO L I VIAL
e-,                 B~~~~~~~Go,ooo t-o~  tt OLoIVIAp~r o
iK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
780          740        *' ~~~~~~~~~~~DE700
,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT                byE C cl Jq uM E  Th w >°  '  .
,-~~~~~~~~C RO     )>                 -5s o wh,a do . ,nfe tfhewoddoh8
,\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o (n \  1ey 
' rA3  ~~  )  X  XZ   \ N T I  U  I A A  E  _ARAUC.
ECUADOD                                     201 -
CALD ~       A TulM A  Z A  NAS  BRAZIL
69~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Iooo  CoH A D A
e~~X U DI       Vlmcno
4~05 0 5 IE LIP
LEd C.]  KLOMTR      M  TA        .vlreP   
D   L                  0o~~~~~~-
78°~~~~               ~~~~~~ A 4  * A  70°m
-0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME ECADR0.



