Report No. 23524
Report No: I074138 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/21/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: COLOMBIA        Project ID: P074138
Project: CO: Higher Education Financing Reform Task Team Leader: Lauritz
B. Holm-Nielsen
Appraisal Date: May 1, 2002      IBRD Amount ($m): 150.00
Bank Approval: November 21, 2002         IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHE Sector: ER - System Reform & Capacity Building; EY -
Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project purpose is to improve human capital formation in Colombia by
increasing the access to, and the equity, quality, relevance, and
efficiency of, higher education. Improved human capital formation is
expected in the long run, to contribute to economic growth and poverty
alleviation - through human capital accumulation and technological
progress - and have positive spillovers for civil society.
At the end of the project, higher education coverage will have increased,
as a proportion of the relevant age group, due to reforms in the current
student credit structure. Access to education for students from poor and
middle income backgrounds will be expanded through a targeted student aid
program consisting of grants and loans. Quality of the education provided
will have increased, thanks to a well articulated accreditation system and
improved monitoring and evaluation mechanisms allowing students to make a
more informed choice among offered programs. Relevance of received
education will increase by prioritizing students in quality programs in
fields of high relevance. Furthermore, science and technology capacity
will be enhanced through a reform and enlargement of the graduation
program that concurrently will permit an improvement in the qualifications
of future faculty members.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
A. Student Aid Program
B. Governance and Institutional Consolidation
1. Accreditation mechanism
2. Monitoring & Evaluation system
3. Relevance of higher education
4. Coordination and Stakeholder Participation
C. Millennium Science Initiative
1. Reform of graduate programs
2. Competitive research grant program
D. Project Implementation



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Policy makers were
consulted regarding the broad design of the reform initiative during
several missions to Colombia.
Other key stakeholders
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
-2-



Through establishment of two networks to: (i) education-private sector
cooperation; and (ii) internationalization.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen 01/18/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         01/18/02
Sector Manager/Director:         William Experton         1/24/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 3 -



