Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7155-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Higher Education-Improving Access Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 16, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7155-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 2003 between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project,  and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) to the Borrower 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) and/or (c) of this Agreement; 
(b) “COLCIENCIAS” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo de la 
Ciencia y la Tecnología ,
 the Colombian Institute for the Development of Science and 
Technology
 
created by Decree Number 2869, dated November 20, 1968; 
(c) 
“Doctoral Program Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Doctoral Program Grant” means the financial support to be awarded by 
COLCIENCIAS to an Eligible Tertiary Institution under the relevant Doctoral Program 
Grant Agreement and included in Part B of the Project;  
(e) 
“Doctoral Program Subproject” means a set of investments to be carried 
out by an Eligible Tertiary Institution under a Doctoral Program Grant Agreement and 
included in Part B of the Project; 
 (f) 
“Eligible Student” means a Tertiary Education (as hereinafter defined) 
student who is eligible to benefit from the grants and/ or loans referred to in Part A of the 
Project  in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);  
(g) 
“Eligible Tertiary Institution” means an institution which provides 
Tertiary Education (as hereinafter defined) and meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);  
(h) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(i) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 and 
ending on  December 31; 
(j) 
“Higher Education Law” means law number 30 of the Borrower dated 
December 28, 1992, duly published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December 29, 
1992, which established, 
inter alia
,
the Borrower’s higher education system and its role, 
functions and responsibilities in the higher education sector; 
(k) “ICETEX” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano de Crédito Educativo y Estudios 
Técnicos en el Exterior,
 the Colombian Institute for Educational Credits and Technical 
Studies Abroad, created by Decree Number 2586, dated August 3, 1950;  
(l) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators; 
(m) 
“MEN” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
thereto;  
(n) 
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to 
the Bank, including standard drafts of  Doctoral Program Grant Agreements, Tertiary 
Education Grant Agreements (as hereinafter defined) and Tertiary Education Loan 
Page  4
-
3
-
Agreements (as hereinafter defined) set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(o) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(p)  
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 (a)  of this Agreement;   
(q) 
“Peso” or “P$” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(r) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement number P-389-CO 
signed on behalf of the Bank on  November 7, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
December 28, 2001; 
 (s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in  Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
 (t) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS and MEN pursuant to Section  3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(u) 
“Tertiary Education” means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory pursuant to the provisions of  the Higher Education Law;  
(v) 
“Tertiary Education Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Tertiary Education Grant” means any of the grants to be awarded by 
ICETEX to an Eligible Student under the relevant Tertiary Education Grant Agreement 
and included in Part A.1 of the Project; 
(x) 
“Tertiary Education Loan Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; and 
(y) 
“Tertiary Education Loan” means any of the loans to be provided by 
ICETEX to an Eligible Student under the relevant Tertiary Education Loan Agreement 
and included in Part A.2 of the Project.  
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.03 Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ICETEX , COLCIENCIAS 
and/or MEN. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and     
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
costs of Tertiary Education Loans, Tertiary Education Grants, goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and in respect 
of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and in respect of payments regarding the Project 
Preparation Advance in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.    
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon previous approval by the Bank, for the 
purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account 
(the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.    
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
Page  6
-
5
-
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on  May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
a
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and 
a
change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the  
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
Section 2.10 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
Page  7
-
6
-
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.11. 
The Deputy Director for Operations at the General Directorate of 
Public Cred
it of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit or any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) cause 
ICETEX to carry out Parts A, and D of the Project with due diligence  and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, financial, managerial, and 
social practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ICETEX 
to carry out Parts A and D of the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of the Project 
by ICETEX; (ii) cause COLCIENCIAS to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, 
engineering, environmental, financial, managerial, social, and technical practices, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable COLCIENCIAS to carry 
out Part B of the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Part of the Project by COLCIENCIAS; 
and (iii) carry out Part C of the Project, through MEN,  with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, compensation, educational, financial, 
managerial, social, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of the Project; 
(b) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement  with ICETEX, 
COLCIENCIAS and with MEN, (the Subsidiary Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing, inter alia, for:  
(i) 
in the case of ICETEX: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(A) 
the transfer, on a grant basis, to ICETEX of the portion 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A and D of 
the Project; 
(B) 
the obligation of ICETEX to carry out Parts A and D of 
the Project and to comply with all the other applicable 
provisions of this Agreement, including, 
inter alia
,
those 
set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 
3.08, 3.10, 4.01 and 4.02; and 
(C) 
the obligation of the Borrower, COLCIENCIAS and 
MEN to provide ICETEX promptly with whatever 
information ICETEX needs to comply with its 
obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(ii) 
in the case of COLCIENCIAS: 
(A) 
the transfer, on a grant basis, to COLCIENCIAS of the 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part B of 
the Project; 
(B) 
the obligation of COLCIENCIAS to carry out Part B of 
the Project and to comply with all the other applicable 
provisions of this Agreement, including, 
inter alia
,
those 
set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.06 and 3.08; and 
(C) 
the obligation of COLCIENCIAS to provide ICETEX 
promptly with whatever information, regarding Part B of 
the Project, ICETEX needs to comply with its 
obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement; and 
(iii) 
in the case of MEN: 
(A) 
the obligation to carry out Part C of the Project and to 
comply with all the other applicable provisions of this 
Agreement, including, 
inter alia
,
those set forth in 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.08; and   
Page  9
-
8
-
(B) 
the obligation of MEN to provide ICETEX promptly 
with whatever information, regarding Part C of the 
Project, ICETEX needs to comply with its obligations 
referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank 
and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive 
or otherwise fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any part thereof. 
(d) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Subsidiary Agreement 
and those of this agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts A, D, B and C of the Project shall be 
carried out by ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS and MEN.   
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall cause ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS to 
carry out their Parts of the Project, and shall carry out its Part of the Project through MEN 
in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said 
manual to include, 
inter alia:
 
(i) 
an institutional implementation plan of ICETEX, 
COLCIENCIAS and MEN for the management of the Project 
(including, 
inter alia
,
allocation of responsibilities among staff, 
yearly planning of activities and budget and time allocation for 
those activities); 
(ii) 
the procurement and financial management guidelines to be 
followed during Project implementation by the Borrower and/or  
ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS  and MEN; 
(iii) 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Action Plans;  
Page  10
-
9
-
(iv) 
the criteria and procedures for: 
(A) 
the selection of Eligible Tertiary Institutions to receive 
Doctoral Program Grants and Eligible Students to 
receive Tertiary Education Grants and Tertiary 
Education Loans;   
(B) 
the preparation, review, approval and implementation of 
Doctoral Program Subprojects (including, 
inter alia
,
the 
appropriate environmental requirements and  a suggested 
list of possible activities, acceptable to the Bank, to be 
carried out under Doctoral Program Subprojects),    
(C) 
the processing, review and approval of financial aid 
(Tertiary Education Grants and Tertiary Education 
Loans) to Eligible Students;  
(D) 
the financial management procedures applicable to 
Doctoral Program Grants, Tertiary Education Grants and 
Tertiary Education Loans, respectively (including, 
inter 
alia, 
the guidelines and timing for the audits referred to 
in Section 3.08 (e) of this Agreement); and 
(E) 
the procurement and contracting procedures applicable 
to consultants’ services, goods and works procured by 
Eligible Tertiary Institutions under Doctoral Program  
Subprojects; and  
(v) 
the Model Forms for Doctoral Program Grant Agreements, 
Tertiary Education Grant Agreements, and  Tertiary Education 
Loan Agreements. 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend,  waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
(c)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ICETEX to: 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(a) 
not later than January 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in year 2003, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual action plan (the 
Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the Project activities to be carried out by ICETEX, 
COLCIENCIAS and MEN  with the assistance of the 
corresponding Eligible Tertiary Institutions, during the twelve 
months immediately following the presentation of each said 
plan; 
(ii) 
the procurement plan, disbursement schedule and chart of 
accounts for each said twelve month period; and 
(iii) 
the amount of counterpart funds needed and to be provided by 
the Borrower to carry out the Project during said calendar year; 
(b) 
thereafter implement, or cause to be implemented, each said Annual 
Action Plan, approved by the Bank, in accordance with its terms; and 
(c) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out,  the Annual Action Plan for the year 
2003 as approved by the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Section 3.06. Upon approval of the corresponding Annual Action Plan by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a)  
cause ICETEX to enter into: (i)  an agreement or amend an existing 
agreement (the Tertiary Education Grant Agreement); and (ii) an agreement or amend an 
existing agreement (the Tertiary Education Loan Agreement) with each Eligible Student,  
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
 
(b)  
cause COLCIENCIAS to enter into an agreement or amend an existing 
agreement (the Doctoral Program Grant Agreement) with each relevant Eligible Tertiary 
Institution;  
 
(c) 
cause ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS  to (i) exercise their rights and carry 
out their obligations under each Doctoral Program Grant Agreement, Tertiary Education 
Grant Agreement, and Tertiary Education Loan Agreement, in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower, COLCIENCIAS and ICETEX and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and  (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not and shall not allow COLCIENCIAS and ICETEX to assign, 
amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Doctoral Program Grant 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Agreement (or any provision thereof), any Tertiary Education Grant Agreement (or any 
provision thereof), or any Tertiary Education Loan Agreement (or any provision thereof). 
(d) 
In case of any conflict between: (i) the terms of any Doctoral Program 
Grant Agreement, any Tertiary Education Grant Agreement or any Tertiary Education 
Loan Agreement, and (ii) the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
Section 3.07.  (a) The Borrower shall cause ICETEX to operate and maintain in 
ICETEX, at all times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the 
PCU) with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the PCU to assist the Borrower in the coordination, 
monitoring and supervision of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause ICETEX to ensure that the PCU is, at all times 
during Project implementation, headed by an executive director and staffed with an  
accountant, an administrative director, a financial director, a procurement specialist and 
other professional and administrative staff, all hired through competitive processes, in 
numbers and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause ICETEX not to introduce changes in the 
number of positions of the PCU or in the professional skills required for occupying such 
positions, without the consent of the Bank. 
 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, through MEN, and cause ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS to 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter 
and the data produced by the monitoring and evaluation program referred to in Part D.5 
of the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, through MEN, and cause ICETEX and COLCIENCIAS to 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, each 
October 31 and April 30 during  Project implementation, starting with the report due not 
later than October 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the 
date of presentation of the report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the following calendar semester; 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(c)  
through the Borrower’s National Planning Office (
Departamento 
Nacional de Planeación
),  review with the Bank, by October 31 of each year of Project 
implementation,  or such later date as the Bank shall agree, starting in year 2003, the 
pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports 
and the Bank’s views on the matter; 
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly with  
ICETEX, COLCIENCIAS, MEN and the Bank,  by December 31, 2005  or such later 
date as the Bank shall agree, on the progress achieved in the  implementation of the 
Project; and 
 
(e) 
cause ICETEX to employ independent auditors, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor –on an annual basis- the eligibility of both Eligible 
Students and Eligible Tertiary Institutions and compliance with the requirements of the 
Operational Manual and of this Agreement in respect of Tertiary Education Grants, 
Tertiary Education Loans, and Doctoral Program Grants. 
 
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.10. In the event that the number of  Tertiary Education Loans in arrears 
for more than ninety days exceeds 10% of ICETEX’s outstanding loan portfolio, under 
the Project, as of September 30 of each year, starting in September 2003, the Borrower  
shall cause ICETEX: 
(a) 
to furnish to the Bank, not later than November 30 of that year, starting 
in 2003, an action plan satisfactory to the Bank, to limit the number of its loans in arrears 
for more than ninety days to 10% or less of its outstanding loan portfolio; and 
(b) 
to carry out such action plan immediately thereafter, until at least the 
completion of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ICETEX to maintain within the PCU 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause ICETEX through the PCU to: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, ICETEX’s own financial 
statements, and the records and accounts for the Special Account 
for each of the Borrower’s FYs audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraphs (a), and (b) (i) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and the report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
ICETEX to: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraphs (a), and (b) (i) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)  
ensure that  such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s, ICETEX’s 
COLCIENCIAS’ and MEN’s  progress reporting obligations set out in Section 3.08 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ICETEX to prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
through the PCU,  a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified. 
(a) 
The Higher Education Law or any provision thereof  shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner as to 
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of  ICETEX, 
COLCIENCIAS and/or MEN to carry out their components of the Project. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that either ICETEX, 
COLCIENCIAS or MEN will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved 
by the Bank; 
(b) 
the independent auditors referred to in Sections 4.01 (b) (i) and 3.08 (e) 
of this Agreement have been contracted by ICETEX;   
(c) 
the PCU has been fully staffed and is operational as provided in Section 
3.07 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
the financial management system for the Project has been established as 
provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement;  
(e) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a proposed plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the selection of consultants under the Project; and 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(f)  
the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the respective parties to 
such agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the agreement referred to in Section 
6.01 (f) of this Agreement has been executed in accordance with the Borrower’s  
legislation, has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the 
respective parties to such agreement, in accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date July 16, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín  
Carrera 7a.,Número 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C.  
Colombia 
       
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
 
MINHACIENDA 
43289 MHAC 
 
(571) 350-9344 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Washington, District of Columbia U.S.A., as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
/s/ Bernardo Ortiz 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/ John Redwood 
 
By  
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
 Goods                                                2,048,500  
100% of foreign 
 
(except as covered 
 
expenditures,  
 
in Categories 
 
100 % of local 
 
(4) and (5) below) 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost); and 
   
 
84%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services                          4,365,500         
73%  
 including 
audits 
 
 
 (except 
as 
covered 
 
 
 
in Category 4 below) 
 
 
 
(3) 
Tertiary Education 
183,900,000 
85% of amounts 
 
 
Loans and Grants 
 
disbursed by ICETEX 
 
under Parts A.1 and 
 
to Eligible  
 
and A.2 of the Project 
 
 
Students until  
withdrawals 
 
for this Category 
 
have reached an 
 
aggregate amount 
 
of
$87,450,000 and 
 
65%
thereafter 
 
(4) 
Goods, works and 
6,000,000 
60% 
 Consultants’ 
services 
 
for Doctoral Program  
 
Subprojects under Part B of  
 
the Project  
 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(5) 
Operating Costs  
 
      1,100,000 
 
50% 
 
 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
 
 
           86,000 
 
Amount due pursuant to 
Project Preparation 
Section 2.02 (b) of this   
 Advance      Agreement 
 
(7)      Front- end Fee 
 
 
      2,000,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Unallocated 
 
 
        500,000 
 
 
 
TOTAL 
       200,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)  
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable Borrower expenditures, 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project, to finance consumable items and 
utilities. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$20,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule  on account of payments made within twelve 
months prior to the date of this Agreement, but not earlier than November 8, 2002. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods; (b) 
under contracts for works; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms; (d) 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
under contracts for the employment of individual consultants; (e) for Tertiary Education 
Loans; and (f) for Tertiary Education Grants;  that are not subject to prior review by the 
Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2 and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and equity of the 
Borrower’s Tertiary Education system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  
Part A
:
Improve Equity in Access to Tertiary Education
1.     Provision of grants to Eligible Students to finance their enrollment and tuition in 
Eligible Tertiary Institutions to pursue Tertiary Education. 
2. 
Provision of loans to Eligible Students to finance their enrollment and tuition in 
Eligible Tertiary Institutions to pursue Tertiary Education and/ or doctoral studies. 
3. 
Design and implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate the activities 
referred to in Parts A.1 and A.2 above. 
Part B
:
Support for Doctoral Program
Carrying out of investments for purposes of, 
inter alia:
 (1) financing small 
infrastructure rehabilitation in research laboratories at Eligible Tertiary Institutions; (2) 
purchasing laboratory equipment, software, hardware, books and information materials 
for Eligible Tertiary Institutions; (3) the processing, review and approval of Tertiary 
Education Loans to be provided to Eligible Students in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (4) providing stipends to researchers 
visiting Eligible Tertiary Institutions. 
Part C: Institutional Strengthening
1.  
Design and implementation of a labor market monitoring program to obtain and 
provide information about the performance of graduates of Tertiary Education in the 
Borrower’s labor market.   
 
2. 
Strengthening of the managerial capacity of MEN to improve the administrative 
framework for Tertiary Education, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) provision of technical 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
assistance  to develop instruments to measure management efficiency, cost effectiveness 
and a quality assurance system; (b) training in procurement advisory services and 
financial management; (c) fellowships, study tours and attendance at international 
conferences for the professional development of MEN officers; and (d) provision of 
computers and office equipment. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to improve the Borrower’s national Tertiary 
Education information system. 
Part D: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
Provision of support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and 
implementation, including, 
inter alia
:
(1)  
the strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to comply with its 
responsibilities referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;  
(2) 
the carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; 
(3) 
the carrying out of audits under Section 3.08 (e) of this Agreement;  
(4) 
the carrying out of Project studies, including, 
inter alia,
 performance 
reviews and impact evaluations; and 
(5) 
the design and implementation of a program to monitor and evaluate the 
carrying out of the Project.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %) 
On each  May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning on May 15, 2010 through  
 
November 15, 2010 
        7.50% 
 
On  May 15, 2011 through November 15, 2012 
           0%  
 
On May 15, 2013 through November 15, 2013 
        12.50% 
 
On May 15, 2014 through November 15, 2015 
       15.00% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount. 
 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B: 
 
(a)  
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $ 250,000 equivalent or more each.  
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 250,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried 
out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
 
(d) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract. 
 
(e) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents. 
 
(f) 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
(g) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the Borrower’s option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, the basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.    
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section, (ii) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 (a)  of this 
Section, estimated to cost an equivalent of $100,000 or more; (iii) first two contracts for 
goods under Part C.2 of this Section; and (iv) the first two contracts for works under Part 
C.3 of this Section, estimated to cost an equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
:
Consultants’ services for the improvement of the Borrower’s national Tertiary 
Education information system  under Part C.3 the Project,  estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract,  may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Consultants’ services for the design and implementation of a labor market 
monitoring program, and for a monitoring and evaluation program under Parts C.1 and 
D.5 of the Project, respectively, estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for  the development of instruments to measure 
management efficiency, cost effectiveness and a quality assurance system under Part C.2 
(a) of the Project, and training in procurement advisory services and financial 
management under Part C.2 (b) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent, for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines: (a)  shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be 
procured on a sole source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval as provided in Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan 
shall be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the Project, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank.             
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms   
estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of the candidates, or the qualifications 
and experience of the candidate in the case of the sole-source selection, as well as the 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix I to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of Tertiary Education Loans, Tertiary Education Grants, goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $12,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $5,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  34
-
33 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  35
-
34 - 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
