Document of
FILE CDI!                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2359-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
June 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distributlon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =    Kyat (K) 7.4
K 1.00              US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Burmese Units               English/US Units                 Metric Units
1 vis (vi)        =      3.60 lb                      8         1.633 kg
1 pyi              n     3.00 pints (dry)             -         1.65 1
1 basket(16 pyi)  =      3.00 pecks                   -         26.4 1
1 basket Paddy    -      46.0 lb (.0205 ton)                    20.9 kg
1 basket Rice  =         75.0 lb (.0335 ton)                    34.0 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AC           -    Agriculture Corporation
AMD          -    Agricultural Mechanization Department
GOB          -    Government of the Socialist Republic of the
Union of Burma
HYV          -    High Yielding Varieties
ID           -    Irrigation Department
MAB          -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF          -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MPF          -    Ministry of Planning and Finance
Paddyland I  -    The Lower Burma Paddyland Development
Project (Credit No. 642-BA)
PIC          -    Project Implementation Committee
PU           -    Project Unit for Paddyland I project
PU II        -    Project Unit II for proposed project
SLRD         -    Settlement and Land Records Department
TPC          -    Township Project Committee
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Amount:                US$34.5 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard
Project
Description:         The project is the second in a series to protect
existing cultivated areas from floods and saline
water inundation and reclaim abandoned paddyland
in Lower Burma. It would replicate the Paddyland
I Project (Credit 642-BA, June 21, 1976). The
project would develop and protect 125,000 acres
of existing farmland and reclaim 50,000 acres of
abandoned paddyland. Other components of the
project include: equipment, spare parts and
workshops, 1,000 small pumps and 1,050 power
tillers, six fertilizer godowns, six training
centers, extension services, 39 man-months of
consulting services, and overseas training. The
project would benefit 19,500 farm families, of
which 5,000 are presently landless resident
families. Annual incremental production, at
full development, is estimated at 90,000 tons
of rice, 2,000 tons of jute and 19,000 tons of
pulses, groundnuts and other crops. Realization
of project benefits would depend largely on the
Government's setting prices at levels which provide
farmers with sufficient incentives to use modern
technology. There are no other serious risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                    US$ Million Equvialent
Local  Foreign   Total
Major Categories
Civil Works
Embankments                                          1.1      0.1      1.2
Drainage Channels & Creek Closures                   1.6      0.2      1.8
Channel Structures & Crossings                       2.7      1.7      4.4
Farmland Clearing                                    0.2       -       0.2
ID Workshops                                         1.5      0.2      1.7
Campsites, Field Workshops &
O&M Buildings                                      2.2      0.3      2.5
AC Godowns, Training Centers,
& Service Stations                                  0.8      0.1      0.9
10.1      2.6    12.7
Equipment
Construction                                         2.7    12.4    15.1
Farmland Clearing                                    0.4      1.7      2.1
Farm Machinery                                       1.1      4.5      5.6
Agric. Support Services                              0.3      0.5      0.8
O&M of Civil Works                                   0.1      0.2      0.3
ID Central/Workshops & Offices                       0.2      0.8      1.0
SLRD Equipment                                       0.0      0.2      0.2
4.8    20.3    25.1
Extension Service (In-
cremental) & AC Go-
down Operation During
Implementation                                       1.3       -       1.3
O&M of Civil Works During
Implementation                                       0.9       -       0.9
MAB Consultants & Equipment                          0.0      0.4      0.4
AC Overseas Fellowships                               -       0.1      0.1
Engineering & Adm.                                   2.7       -       2.7
Basic Project Cost                                19.8    23.4    43.2
Physical Contingencies                               2.0      0.8     2.8
Expected Price Conting.                              6.4      3.6    10.0
Total Project Costs                              28.2    27.8    56.0
Total Project Costs (net
of taxes and duties)                          (24.2)  (27.8)  (52.0)



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                            12.3      22.2   34.5
Government of Burma            15.9       5.6   21.5
Estimated                                    US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:                     1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986
IDA FY
Annual        0.3  4.4  9.7  8.5  5.1  3.6  2.2  0.7
Cumulative   0.3  4.7 14.4 22.9 28.0 31.6 33.8 34.5
Rate of Return:         24%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 1908-BA, dated June 22, 1978






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Union of Burma for the equivalent of US$34.5 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a paddyland development II project.
The Government is discussing with the United Kingdom's Ministry of Overseas
Development (ODM) the possibility for financing the equipment for the Irriga-
tion Department (ID) workshops and offices, about US$0.8 million equivalent,
and consulting services and equipment for the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB),
about US$0.4 million equivalent. In the event the Government secures financ-
ing from ODM or other sources by October 31, 1978, for the above components
or parts thereof, the proposed amount of the IDA credit would be reduced
accordingly.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma - Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 1700-BA, October 19, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on October 26, 1977. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        World War II and the events leading up to independence in 1948
devastated the Burmese economy and divided the country politically. As
a result, the 1950s were a period of turbulence. In 1962, parliamentary
democracy was declared a failure, and the assembly and high court were
dismissed. In their place, a Revolutionary Council was formed with General
Ne Win as its Chairman, and the Burmese Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was
established as the only authorized political party. After eleven years of
government by the Revolutionary Council, a Constitution was adopted in a
nationwide referendum in December 1973 under which the Pyithu Hluttaw
(People's Assembly) was created with supreme executive, legislative, and
judicial authority.
4.        The guiding philosophy of the present Government, as stated in
the April 1962 document on the Burmese Way to Socialism, is based on a com-
bination of traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Nationalistic
in character, its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan,
which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as the corres-
ponding parts of the President's Report for a Seed Development Project,
dated October 19, 1977 (P-2159-BA).



-2-
succession of five Four-Year Plans. The intent is to fashion a new order
for Burma by reorienting the economy to provide adequate food, clothing and
shelter for the masses and to improve the quality of social services.
5.        By and large, the Government has made notable progress in the
attainment of its social and political objectives. Insurgency is still a
problem, particularly in the hills and border areas, but there is probably
greater territorial control by the Government now than at any time since
Independence. Greater equality in the distribution of economic opportunity
has resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of
holdings among farm families, and the nationalization of a number of major
economic activities in trade and industry. At the same time, the access of
the population to social services has been expanded, particularly in respect
of education and health facilities.
6.        However, the Government's ability to maintain the social well-being
of the population has been eroded by slow economic growth. Per capita income
at present is about $130 and permits little above basic needs for the greater
part of the population. Unemployment is estimated to be over 10% of the labor
force. A large part of the labor force operates outside the regular economic
system and underemployment is pervasive.
7.        Burma's economic performance over the last decade and a half
reflected to a significant extent the effects of the particular policies it
adopted to prevent territorial disintegration of the Union and to establish
economic independence. Capitalism was considered exploitative and alien.
Thus, State control was established over the means of production and distri-
bution in large parts of the economy and sweeping measures were taken to
reduce the role of the private sector, which was regarded as being largely
synonymous with foreign investments. As public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
and production which resulted, economic growth stagnated. Throughout the
period investment levels were low. Gross capital formation averaged 10-11%
of GNP. Even this limited investment was not directed towards the sectors
having the greatest comparative advantage. With investment in nationalized
industry providing the main thrust in the Government's efforts to reduce the
country's reliance on external transactions, agriculture, forestry and mining
did not receive due attention. The pricing policies of the Government exac-
erbated the problem. They were aimed at keeping the cost of living low for
the masses, but low producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and
other crops and led to dwindling export earnings. Furthermore, State
industrial enterprises, themselves, were not allowed full recovery of their
costs, which led to a decline in their financial surpluses and ultimately in
domestic savings. An increasing share of production was either traded in the
unofficial market or was smuggled abroad at a multiple of official prices.
In both cases, taxable income was siphoned off to the private sector with
little opportunity for private enterprises to invest these resources produc-
tively in the domestic economy. The distortions arising from this system were
compounded by low official interest rates and an overvalued exchange rate.
8.        As a result, value added by the directly productive sectors of the
economy lagged behind population growth, while export volumes declined for



- 3 -
most of the period. The latter, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy
to import essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment which led
to increasing underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy
and severely limited its ability to invest.
9.        In recognition of the practical problems faced in the implementa-
tion of its overall economic policies in the 1960s, the Government began
pragmatically in the early 1970s to evolve a modified approach to the attain-
ment of its basic objectives. More rational pricing policies have been in-
troduced.  Procurement prices of a variety of agriculture products have been
raised, to improve the economic position of the farmer, while others have
been decontrolled. The procurement price for paddy was raised by 150%
between 1972 and 1974. It has, however, remained unchanged since then despite
rapid inflation. In industry, the Government has increased the ex-factory
prices of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) though the adjustments remain in-
complete. New costing schedules were established in 1976 which, in principle,
allow for the first time profit margins at the producing level. The official
exchange rate of the kyat was reduced by 25% in January 1975 and a further 9%
in 1977, thus partially compensating for the overvaluation of the exchange
rate.
10.       In a policy announcement in 1973, the Government reaffirmed its aim
"to transform the economy of Burma from an agricultural to an agriculture-
based industrial country, and thence gradually to an industrial nation." In
the same statement, however, the Government accorded priority at the present
stage of the country's development to improvements in agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and mining and the establishment of consumer goods indus-
tries based on the raw material resources of the country. More recently, the
need to increase production for exports has received increasing attention.
In response, a significant shift in public investment in favor of the primary
producing sectors has been effected.
11.       Managerial and organizational reforms of the SEEs have also been
initiated. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to
enable SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of
their production. The guidelines encourage autonomy in the management of
SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance.
12.       A major tax reform was enacted in April 1976.  It included the
introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and a Profits Tax. At the
same time, revisions in the selling prices of SEEs in 1976/77, accompanied
by improved economic performance, raised the current revenues of boards and
corporations substantially. It resulted in increasing Government revenue
from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1976/77, reversing the decline in domestic
savings and halting the rapid expansion in money supply that fueled a high
rate of inflation. It represented a major turnaround in public finance and
was perhaps the most important achievement of the Government in recent years.



13.       These actions have undoubtedly improved the conditions for acceler-
ated economic growth and thereby contributed in a positive manner to economic
performance under the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78). Yet, much of
the output expansion during the first three years of the Plan reflected
favorable weather conditions. In 1976/77 GDP is estimated to have risen by
6% in real terms compared to 4.8% in 1975/76 and 2.6% in 1974/75. After a
decline in 1974/75, agricultural output growth recovered mainly because of
the aforementioned favorable weather conditions. The traditionally important
forestry and mining sectors also recorded some improvement. A welcomed devel-
opment was the expansion of onshore crude oil production by 21% in 1976/77.
With the increased availability of raw material from the primary sectors and
larger imports of intermediate materials and capital equipment, the growth of
the processing and manufacturing sector increased from 4.2% in 1974/75 to
10.6% in 1976/77.
14.       After stagnating in 1974/75, gross fixed capital formation is esti-
mated to have increased in real terms by 16.2% in 1975/76 and 12.6% in 1976/77,
although the severe problems of implementation experienced during the period
suggest that these estimates will almost certainly be scaled down. Along
with the increase in investment, domestic savings expanded.  The improved
budgetary position of the Government lessened its dependence on the banking
system, which in turn contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation.
During 1976 the consumer price index in Rangoon increased by 22% as compared
with 30% in 1975. The consumer price index declined slightly during 1977.
15.       The value of exports (in US dollars) grew by 9.8% per annum during
1974/75 and 1976/77 in nominal terms, principally as the result of export
price increases for most export products and an expanded volume of rice ex-
ports. This increase in exchange earnings, plus some use of external financ-
ing, enabled imports to rise although Burma's capacity to import continued to
be tight in relation to its needs.
16.       Despite these favorable developments, much remains to be done to
put the economy firmly on the path to sustained, more rapid growth. Fur-
ther progress needs to be made in rationalizing the role of agricultural and
industrial prices in the allocation of resources. At present, investment and
production decisions are still chiefly guided by plan targets rather than in
response to changes in production and market conditions. In agriculture, a
review of product and input prices, in particular for paddy and fertilizer,
is warranted. In this connection, the Government has established a Rice
Commission to examine such issues. In industry, further adjustments of SEE
product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately,
stimulate productivity growth, and generate surpluses for reinvestment in
those industries with a potential for viability. In external trade, the impact
of the present level of the exchange rate needs to be kept under continuing
review, given the importance of greater export growth for the development of
the domestic economy.



-5-
17.       Together with the use of prices to allocate resources to the most
productive activities, a sharpening of sectoral development strategy aimed
at rehabilitating productive capacity and ensuring more efficient use of the
national resource endowment is also required.
18.       The Bank economic reports have drawn attention to the wealth of
Burma's agricultural resources, its importance for the country's economic
development, and the difficulties in sustaining more rapid growth. Apart
from the controlled price system, which militates against fuller realization
of potential and timely adjustments of production to changes in export market
conditions, the problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies
of essential farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages
of farm power, basic farm services, in particular, agricultural credit and
extension services.
19.       If Burma's agricultural performance is to be improved, intensive
and coordinated action will be necessary to deal with these difficulties.
Along with such action, priority needs to be given to improvements of pro-
ductivity in existing cultivated areas, with emphasis on quick-yielding
projects.
20.       In forestry, Burma is estimated to have 75% of the world's remain-
ing teak reserves in addition to extensive reserves of marketable hardwood.
However, the contributions of this sector to national development in the
recent past have been limited. The rehabilitation of existing and the pur-
chase of new equipment, improved maintenance, construction of access and
feeder roads to forest areas, and better management and coordination between
Government agencies are priority requirements if the potential of the sector
for increased production and export earnings is to be more fully tapped.
21.       Burma's reserves of mineral products are similarly impressive.
Although only a few areas of the country have been systematically prospected,
it is clear that Burma has a highly varied and favorable endowment of minerals
-- tin and tungsten, lead, zinc, silver and copper. Their effective utiliza-
tion will, however, require that urgent attention be given to the rehabilita-
tion, modernization and maintenance of existing mining operations, institution
building and technical training. The benefits foregone by past neglect and
pre-war inadequate management are enormous. A new opportunity is that of
petroleum where current production already permits self-sufficiency.
22.       The primary sectors, in turn, provide Burma with a base for indus-
trial development, provided managerial efficiency is improved and research and
development are promoted. In contrast to this potential, investments in the
recent past have concentrated on industries which have not always been in line
with the country's comparative advantages. Notable cases in this connection
are a number of heavy industries where capacity has been built up over the
years to levels that do not permit efficient production. A review of indus-
trial strategy is needed, given the character of the country's resource endow-
ments and the fiscal and balance of payments implications of capital-intensive
industrial development.



- 6 -
23.       Together with the development of the primary and secondary sectors,
greater attention is required for the rehabilitation of the country's physical
infrastructure, in particular transportation. The transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment and maintenance.
Only some 60% of the stock of diesel locomotives, 50% of the fleet of trucks
in the public sector, and 75% of inland watercraft are in running condition.
24.       The transport sector accounted for about 15% of all development
expenditures during 1974/75-1976/77. An expanded share is justified during
the Third Four-Year Plan. Within such an allocation, the highest priority
needs to be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing capacity.
At the same time, rationalization of transport pricing policy is essential.
To have any substantial impact, these measures must, in addition, be accom-
panied by improvements in operational efficiency and management in the public
sector.
25.       The need for institution building and management development geared
to expanding absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration and
implementation of development programs cannot be overemphasized (para 38).
The Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex
and rigid in its manner of operation and focuses excessively on the formula-
tion rather than the implementation of targets. Streamlining of the entire
planning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision making
and strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and
implement projects are urgently needed.
26.       The Government concurs broadly with the above diagnoses of the prob-
lems it faces and the issues to which attention must urgently be addressed.
If pursued vigorously, and duly supplemented with additional measures, the
Government's new policy orientation should lead to a significant acceleration
of economic growth. In this connection, the recently enacted law on the
"Rights of the Private Enterprise" is welcomed. By legitimizing private
sector activity and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the develop-
ment of the public, cooperative and private sectors, some re-integration of
the economy will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial impact
upon economic performance.
27.       The targets of the authorities entail GDP growth in real terms of
6.6% per annum under the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). Agriculture
is targeted to expand by 5.8% per annum and the processing and manufacturing
sector by 12.2%.
28.       A more modest view of the intermediate-term prospects of the economy,
however, is forecast in the 1977 Burma Country Economic Memorandum because,
unavoidably, it will take some time before recent reforms and intended new
initiatives are fully implemented and begin to have a significant impact.
Annual increases in GDP of 5% in real terms (with agriculture and manufactur-
ing industry growing by 3% and 8.5% per annum, respectively) together with
annual increases in investment of about 13%, constitute a more reasonable set
of expectations. The targets, although modest, are a substantial improvement
of performance over the past decade. The financing of such an investment
effort will require that domestic savings should grow from 9.1% of GNP in



- 7 -
1976/77 to 11.1% in 1981/82, plus continued substantial foreign transfers of
resources into Burma. While the tasks involved will put heavy demands on the
fiscal, administrative and management capacities of the Government, it should
be feasible, provided adequate action is taken.
29.       External assistance is needed for projects which contribute towards:
--   intensified use of existing cultivated areas and the rec-
lamation of abandoned land in agriculture (research and
extension services, supply of essential inputs, especially
HYV, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery; improve-
ment of irrigation facilities, in particular, tubewell
development; and integrated agricultural development);
--   better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction and transport facilities);
--   development of known mineral deposits; and
--   development of agro- and mineral-based industries
possessing clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish and wood products, and fertilizer production).
Alongside such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate existing
capacity in transportation. While project loans and technical assistance will
be justified for most projects in the above fields, commodity financing also
will be required from external resources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer,
materials, spares, and equipment in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
30.       Given Burma's low income level and the scarcity of foreign ex-
change, such external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is parti-
cularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
31.       Burma's debt service ratio has gradually increased from 10% in the
sixties to about 20% in 1976/77. By the end of March 1977, Burma's external
public debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to US$321 million. With
increased foreign assistance, external public debt will rise further, but
Burma should have no major problem in servicing this debt, in view of its
moderately favorable export potential.
32.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which
these resources will be managed and developed. While there are some signs
that Burma's performance in this regard is now being improved, these need to
be strengthened and broadened. Provided Burma sustains its efforts at utili-
zing this endowment efficiently and combines them with a positive attitude



- 8 -
towards population planning, it should make the task of economic development
more manageable and provide increasingly productive employment for its
people in the longer run.
33.       The Bank Group, in close cooperation with the IMF, will continue
discussions with the Government regarding further improvements in economic
policy which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development. At the Government's request, the Bank has organized an Aid
Group for Burma. The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30,
1976, in Tokyo. In endorsing the measures being taken by the Government
to accelerate economic growth and strengthen Burma's planning and management
capabilities, the Group, in its second meeting held on February 1, 1978, in
Paris, assured the Government that in these efforts it will find the Group
responsive in meeting Burma's requirements for external capital and technical
assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
34.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
35.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1973.  At the request
of the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973 IDA has made
ten credits totalling US$164 million. About half of this assistance, $84
million, was channeled to the agricultural sector, consisting of five projects:
irrigation, forestry, livestock, paddyland development, and seed development.
Over one-fourth of IDA's assistance, $43 million, was made to rehabilitate the
transport sector for three projects, namely inland water transport, railways,
and a second ports project. The telecommunication sector received its first
credit, $21 million (13%), and a first credit was also made to the mining
sector for a $16 million tin and tungsten expansion project (10% of the total).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has
made no investments in Burma, nor are any planned.
3m.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.
The $2.5 million UNDP Technical Assistance project (Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,
power and industry (paras 39 and 40). A sum of $0.5 million has recently been
a;ided to the original amount and a second phase of this umbrella project is
now under discussion with the Government and UNDP.  Furthermore, the Associa-
lion plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis



to help improve Burmese project preparation capabilities, as well as admin-
istrative and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.
37.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are, at present, inoperable and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
38.       The Association intends to assist the Government with the imple-
mentation of these objectives within the framework of the Burmese system of
socialism. However, the extent to which the Association would be able to
provide assistance will depend largely on the pace by which the Government
continues to improve overall macroeconomic performance along the lines
noted in paragraphs 16 to 25. In particular, future lending may be con-
strained by the low absorptive capacity of implementing agencies, especially
in the agriculture sector. Thus, the Government's action to improve its
absorptive capacity, in particular, to make its administrative machinery
more conducive to development, will essentially determine the scope and
volume of external assistance.
39.       In line with the urgent need of the country to increase foreign
exchange earnings, most of the projects under active preparation are designed
to have an impact on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A longer
gestation irrigation project, Nyaunggyat Dam, is being prepared. It is de-
signed to increase food production in areas of Upper Burma, as well as to
meet the raw cotton requirements of the domestic textile industry. Due to
the large size of the Nyaunggyat Dam project, the Association is exploring
co-financing with a number of bilateral donors. Preparation has begun on a
Lower Burma paddy storage and handling project, designed to reduce crop losses
after harvest. Increased exports also may result from a rubber rehabilita-
tion project prepared under the UNDP Umbrella Project. A second forestry
project is also being prepared.
40.       Programs to expand production and exports will need to be supported
by complementary improvements in economic infrastructure. To assist with the
latter, two projects are proposed. A highway rehabilitation and road trans-
port project, prepared under the UNDP Umbrella project, has been appraised.
However, further processing of the proposed project is pending Government's
final agreement on project concept. A second telecommunications project,
prepared by the Government, is being appraised. The latter project will com-
plement the first telecommunications project (FY75, $21 million) by further
rehabilitating the telecommunications network which is presently inadequate
and is a major bottleneck to growth of productive sectors. The project will
help finance improved international services through a satellite ground



- 10 -
station, improvement and expansion of telex and telegraph facilities, and
extension of existing telecommunication facilities to meet demand in Rangoon,
Mandalay and other smaller towns and rural areas.
41.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of debt service. In five years, the
Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to about
20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
42.       Burma's agricultural crop sector accounts for 27% of GDP, employs
66% of the work force and accounts for 58% of exports. About 60% of the
industrial output is derived from processing of cotton, jute, and sugarcane.
During the period 1964/65 to 1975/76, performance of the sector has been poor
with an average annual growth rate of only 2.3% compared to a population
growth rate of 2.2%. The poor performance reflects a set of policies that
gave the farmer little incentive to increase output and provided the sector
with inadequate support through services, inputs, and investment. However,
the Government's view of the role of agriculture in the development of the
country has since changed and creation of a healthy, growing agricultural
sector is now seen as being of pivotal importance - as a means of increasing
the income of the majority of Burmese who are farmers, as a source of foreign
exchange through exports, and as a supplier of raw materials to industry.
With this change in attitude have come changes in policies - prices are used,
if not always adequately, as a means of stimulating growth in output; provi-
sion is being made for expansion of services and the supply of inputs; the
share of agriculture in public investment has risen significantly and is
intended to be about 27% in the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). It is
in this context that the proposed project, which aims at raising agriculture
production, particularly rice for exports, should be viewed.
43.       Burma's main crop is rice which accounts for 55% of the total sown
area and is the main export commodity. Production has grown slowly, increas-
ing by only about 2.0% per annum during the last decade. Once the largest rice
exporter in the world, Burma suffered considerable devastation to embankment
structures during World War II and subsequently from recurrent social disturb-
ances. The stoppage of rice exports during the war period, changes in land
tenancy, and general lack of embankment maintenance led to further deteriora-
tion and land abandonment. A special reclamation program of the Government
managed to boost sown area by 1963-64 to its pre-war level of 12.4 million
acres, primarily through the restoration of approximately 71% of the 1.7 mil-
lion abandoned acres in Lower Burma. However, due to insecurity, inadequate
embankment maintenance, and a generally low level of commercial and economic
activity over the last decade, the total abandoned area of Lower Burma in-
creased once again to about 1.0 million acres by 1973/74. Over the last ten
years, there has been no significant increase in the total sown area nation-
wide as increases in acreage in Upper Burma merely compensated for the losses



- 11 -
in Lower Burma. Up to 1974, yields were also stagnant, and annual production
of paddy fluctuated around pre-war levels of about 8 million tons. In the
last two years paddy production has exceeded 9 million tons for the first
time, although the recent harvest may have been affected by late rains.
44.       About 70% of the area under paddy is concentrated in Lower Burma,
mainly in the Irrawaddy Delta. Mostly local varieties are sown. Adoption
of high-yielding varieties (HYV) has been constrained in the past not only by
inadequate water control, but also by the lack of material inputs, especially
seeds, fertilizers, and by power shortages during peak demand periods. In
Upper Burma, lack of water is the major constraint to increased production
and adoption of HYV. With more adequate price incentives to induce farmers
to use improved technology, yields of traditional varieties could be increased
from the present average of about 1,500 lbs/acre to about 2,000 lbs/acre.
However, any significant yield breakthrough will depend on the widespread
production of HYV. Although the first HYV were introduced in Burma in the
mid sixties, they are as yet only grown on about 1 million acres (8% of the
rice area). The Seed Development Project (Credit 745-BA) would increase the
area sown with HYV rice to about 3.5 million acres.
45.       Government control of rice marketing and pricing policy, until
recently, has had a substantial constraining effect upon productivity. The
Government maintained low procurement prices for paddy during the 1960s and
early 1970s in an effort to keep food costs for urban residents low and to
make sizable profits from export sales. The results of such a policy were
to: (a) stimulate domestic consumption through artificially low retail prices;
(b) reduce incentives for private investment in agriculture; (c) reduce
procured volumes and induce covert diversion of paddy into free market chan-
nels; (d) generate an active black market for food commodities to satisfy
demand; and (e) limit exportable volumes. The impact of low procurement
prices was particularly severe on paddy farmers in Lower Burma who rely
largely on paddy production in the wet season. Farmers, therefore, attempted
to circumvent the compulsory quotas and to sell as large a portion as possible
of marketable surpluses onto the free market.
46.       Although private paddy transactions are still strictly regulated,
state controls on the sale, purchase, and transport of milled rice within
townships were abolished in May 1973, thereby legitimatizing limited local
free market trading in rice. The low procurement price policy was eventually
reversed in 1972 and procurement prices of paddy were increased by 150% during
the period November 1972 to July 1974. Except for a 2-6% price increase of
premium quality paddy in November 1977, which was recommended by the recently
established Rice Study Commission, procurement prices have remained unchanged
since July 1974.
47.       Other important crops include jute, cotton, oilseeds (groundnuts
and sesamum), pulses, and sugarcane. Following a tenfold increase in pro-
duction over the previous decade, jute production declined by 50% over the
1973-77 period, predominantly in response to shortages of seeds and relative



- 12 -
profitability of paddy over jute; groundnuts and pulses increased during
1973-76. Adopted in recent years as a follow-up crop to paddy, production
of groundnuts has been constrained by drought and shortage of viable seed.
Pulses are grown on dryland areas of Upper Burma and on paddyland as a
follow-up crop in Middle Delta of Lower Burma; further boosts in production
will require water control measures and extension efforts to popularize
improved varieties.
48.       Burma has considerable potential for increases in agricultural pro-
ductivity, especially in paddy development. In Lower Burma, the key factor
for development is the protection of paddyland from flooding (Middle Delta)
and salt water inundation (Lower Delta). In addition, procurement prices,
particularly for paddy, should be reviewed and adjusted if necessary to ensure
that farmers have sufficient incentives to increase production of agriculture
export commodities. It is in this spirit that the Government recently estab-
lished a Rice Study Commission to review all aspects of rice production,
marketing and pricing. Other important complementary measures for increased
productivity include: (a) increase in crop yields on presently cultivated
land through effective extension programs and improved distribution of inputs;
(b) activation of a development-oriented rural credit system, especially for
medium- and long-term credit; (c) acceleration of programs to reclaim part
of the abandoned and waste paddyland in Lower Burma; (d) improvement of post-
harvest infrastructure for storage, processing and marketing of produce; and
(e) development of groundwater resources in Central Burma and expansion of
gravity irrigation systems in Upper Burma. The proposed project replicates
the IDA financed Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project (Paddyland I
Project), Credit No. 642-BA, and is designed to meet the first three objec-
tives. The latter two objectives will be addressed through the proposed paddy
storage and handling project, for which a feasibility study is being financed
under Paddyland I Project, and the groundwater exploration scheme financed
under the UNDP Umbrella Project.
Review of Progress of the Paddyland I Project
49.       The Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project (Credit No. 642-BA of
June 21, 1976) is designed to raise agricultural productivity in the Irra-
waddy Delta by increasing acreage under cultivation, enabling higher land-use
intensity, and boosting yields. It includes the construction of flood pro-
tection embankments and drainage channels to protect 120,000 acres of exist-
ing farmland from flooding and salt water inundation to enable the reclamation
of about 65,000 acres of abandoned paddyland and to increase the area of dry
season lift-irrigation from 6,000 to 22,000 acres. To complement these
construction, reclamation, and irrigation works, the project will strengthen
agricultural extension services, improve farm equipment supply and services,
and finance hydrological investigations in the Irrawaddy Delta as well as
studies of paddy storage, handling, and processing requirements. The project
is expected to benefit about 20,000 farm families and to increase annual
agricultural production at full development by about 159,000 tons of paddy,
5,500 tons of jute, and 22,600 tons of miscellaneous crops and vegetables.
The incremental rice and jute production is expected to generate about US$28
million per year in foreign exchange earnings. This relatively quick-yielding
project is the first in a series of projects in the Irrawaddy Delta eventually



-- 13 -
expected to result in the protection of about one million acres of paddyland.
The proposed project is the second in this series.
50.       The Credit was declared effective on August 20, 1976, following the
establishment of a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) and the Project
Unit (PU). In January 1977, bids for the supply of key construction equip-
ment were opened. However, awards of contracts for the supply of this equip-
ment were made only in September 1977, and only a small part of the equipment
was delivered in time for the first construction season (November 1977 to May
1978). In the meantime, the Irrigation Department (ID) completed construction
surveys and final designs and, in the first construction season, it completed
a targeted construction program using existing equipment which was released
from other work recently completed. All ID staff has now been appointed.
Despite the slow start, the ID will be able to complete project construction
on schedule if no further major delays occur. Early in 1977, the Agriculture
Corporation (AC) launched the intensive agricultural extension program for
five project townships and, by December 1977, it had fully staffed the exten-
sion program with village- and township-level officers assigned full time to
extension activities. These officers are carrying out a program of periodic
and regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training and Visits program)
which has been well received by farmers. Until new river transport is pro-
cured, the AC is hiring local motor boats for the officers' transportation.
In September 1977, consultants began work on the hydrologic investigations
and, in December 1977, consultants began work on the paddy storage and hand-
ling studies. Although disbursements are lagging behind appraisal estimates,
total disbursement as of May 31, 1978, amounted to about US$5.1 million. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests has, therefore, made a strong effort to
make up for the initial delays and has demonstrated its willingness and capa-
city to complete the project within the scheduled implementation period.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was identified by an IDA mission in January/February
1975 as one of a series of quick-yielding projects for increasing rice pro-
duction in Burma. The project was prepared by the Government with the assist-
ance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program during May 1976 through August 1977.
It was appraised in September/October 1977. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Burma: Paddyland Development II Project" (No. 1908-BA) dated June 22, 1978,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C., during May 12 to 25, 1978. The Borrower's delega-
tion was led by H.E. U Ye Goung, Minister, Ministry of Agriculture of Forests.
Project Description
52.       The proposed project, the sixth IDA agricultural project in Burma,
would be the second in a series to protect existing cultivated areas and
reclaim abandoned paddyland in Lower Burma. It would replicate the Paddy-
land I Project. The project would protect 125,000 acres of existing farmland
from flooding and salt water inundation, reclaim 50,000 acres of abandoned
paddyland, and increase dry season irrigation from about 1,500 acres to about
12,000 acres. The main project components are:



- 14 -
(a) Rehabilitation and construction of about 255 miles of
earth embankments (6.5 million cu yd), about 220 miles of
drainage channels (9.3 million cu yd), about 57 concrete
gated pipe drainage culverts, 21 gated drainage sluices
and approximately 52 drainage channel crossings.
(b) Clearance and reclamation of about 50,000 ac of abandoned
and wasteland within these protected areas.
(c) Improvement and expansion of the Irrigation Department's
(ID) central workshop in Rangoon, and construction-in the
project areas of four building complexes for operation
and maintenance (O&M) of project works.
(d) Provision of equipment, spare parts, and materials for
construction and O&M of works and for land clearing and
surveying, and equipment and spares for the ID central
workshop and offices.
(e) Provision of about 1,000 small irrigation pumps, 1,050
power tillers including spare parts for sale to farmers.
(f) Construction of three service stations and provision of
equipment for repairing project farm machinery.
(g) Strengthening of extension services in five townships
additional to the five already included in the Paddyland
I Project.
(h) Construction of six godowns for fertilizer storage and
six training centers and provision of transport and
equipment for extension and research activities.
(i) Provision of survey and office equipment for demarcating
into plots the land to be reclaimed and allotted.
(j) Provision of about 39 man-months of consulting services
to assist in establishing an agriculture development
credit program.
(k) Provision of overseas training for extension service
staff.
Project Execution
53.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would be mainly
responsible for project implementation and for its operation and maintenance
after completion. The Irrigation Department (ID), Agriculture Corporation
(AC), Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD), and Settlement and Land
Records Department (SLRD), all under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
(MAF), and the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB), under the Ministry of Planning
and Finance (MPF), would execute the various components of the project.



- 15 -
54.       The SLRD would survey and demarcate the reclaimed land.  The ID
would carry out the planning, design, construction and O&M of all flood
control and drainage facilities, and would be responsible for the procurement
of construction and O&M equipment. It would also be responsible for the con-
struction of the ID Central Workshop and the buildings for the operation and
maintenance of project works. For the ID to accommodate the proposed project
in its 1979 to 1985 work load would require a moderate (15%) increase in total
staff numbers. The ID is presently staffed with experienced engineers who
could adequately provide management for this as well as on-going projects.
New staff would be recruited and trained only at lower levels. Assurance was
obtained that the Government would increase the staff of the ID according to
the project implementation schedule agreed with the Association (Section 3.05
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The AC would implement the intensified extension program and be
responsible for the construction of six fertilizer godowns and six training
centers in the project area. Assurances were obtained that the Government
would appoint extension officers required according to the timetable agreed
with the Association (Section 3.04(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement),
and that they would devote full time to extension activities and would be
provided with adequate funds for transportation (Section 3.04(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Assurance was also obtained that Government, in
consultation with IDA, would cause the extension services in the ten townships
involved with the Paddyland I and II project areas to follow the systematic
Training and Visit (T&V) approach (Section 3.04(a) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). To assist AC with the implementation of the T&V approach, the
project includes the provision for short-term training in neighboring coun-
tries for about ten extension officers. In order to ensure the adequate and
timely availability of agriculture inputs and supplies, assurance was obtained
that, by December 31, 1978, and by December 31 every year thereafter through
1994, the PIC would provide estimates to the MAF and to IDA on the require-
ments for the following fiscal year (April 1 to March 31) for new seed,
chemical farm inputs, farm implements, farm machinery and spare parts, and
fuel and diesel oil in the ten townships of the Paddyland I and II project
areas (Section 3.13(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). For this
purpose, the Government would also maintain arrangements for timely distri-
bution of these supplies and services to all parts of the ten townships
(Section 3.13(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.       The AMD would be responsible for clearing abandoned and wasteland.
The AMD would procure and sell to farmer groups or cooperatives, pumps, power
tillers and implements and construct, equip, and staff three field service
stations in the project area. The Government has agreed, under the Paddyland I
Project, to provide farmers with medium- and long-term credit for the purchase
of bullocks, farm machinery and implements. A similar assurance was obtained
for the proposed project (Section 3.12 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Under the Paddyland I Project MAB is scheduled to start providing
medium- and long-term credit to farmers early in 1980. MAB would be assisted
by consultants (para 57) in establishing an agriculture credit program. The
AMD would also provide farmers with maintenance service for farm machinery and
pumps. Assurance was obtained that the AMD would charge for all farm machinery



- 16 -
repair and maintenance services at rates sufficient to cover the cost of
operation and maintenance and depreciation of the AMD service station and
its equipment (Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The MAB would employ consultants (39 man-months at an estimated
US$8,500 equivalent per man-month) to assist in staff development and
training program required to establish an agriculture credit program for
medium- and long-term credit and to prepare a credit project suitable for
external financing. Assurance was obtained that MAB would employ consultants
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Coordination
58.       Under the Paddyland I Project, a Project Implementation Committee
(PIC), which is chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests,
was established to coordinate policy and administrative matters. It is
proposed that PIC also serve the same function for the proposed project.
Therefore, an assurance was obtained to this effect (Section 3.03(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Parallel to the Project Unit (PU) of
Paddyland I Project, a new Project Unit (PU II) would be established. The
PU II, which coordinates the technical planning and field execution by the
various agencies, would report to the PIC. The membership of PU II will
consist of the senior technical officers of the implementing agencies of the
proposed project. The Project Director for PU II would be the senior ID
officer for the proposed project. The establishment of PU II, the appoint-
ment of the Project Director and the assignment to work under the PU II of
five executive engineers from the ID and a project extension manager from the
AC are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 5.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       In each township (basic administrative unit) of the project area
a Township Project Committee (TPC) would coordinate the land allotments,
extension activities and construction. The TPC memberships would include
the township-level officers of the various implementing agencies, with the ID
Executive Engineer as chairman and the AC township-level manager as member
secretary. After the completion of project construction, the AC township-
level manager would serve as the chairman and one other member of the commit-
tee as the secretary. The TPCs would be established before construction and
land reclamation began in the respective townships.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The estimated cost of the project including contingencies is US$56.0
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$27.8 million equiv-
alent (or about 50%). The local cost component of US$28.2 million equivalent
includes about US$4.0 million equivalent for duties and taxes on imported
equipment. The proposed IDA Credit of US$34.5 million equivalent would
finance US$22.2 million equivalent of the foreign exchange cost and US$12.3
million equivalent of the local costs, or about 66% of total project costs



- 17 -
excluding taxes and duties. The Government would finance US$5.6 million
equivalent of the foreign exchange costs for the equipment and materials
reserved for procurement under local procedures (para 61) and US$15.9 million
equivalent of the local costs through annual budgetary appropriations to the
various implementing agencies.
Procurement and Disbursements
61.       Equipment, vehicles, and spare parts, with an estimated foreign
exchange cost of about US$13.8 million equivalent (net of contingencies), would
be procured after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA procurement guidelines. Small off-the-shelf items and groupings thereof
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent, which are either urgently
required or are not suitable for ICB, would be procured in accordance with
the Government's normal procedures, after bids have been received from at
least three independent suppliers. Such procurements would be limited to a
maximum of US$1.5 million equivalent. Small irrigation pumps (1,000), power
tillers (1,050), other equipment and field vehicles with an estimated foreign
exchange cost of about US$5.0 equivalent (net of contingencies), would be
reserved for procurement under local procedures and would not be eligible
for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
62.       Civil works with an estimated cost of US$12.7 million equivalent
(net of contingencies) comprise mainly earthwork (embankments and drains),
drainage sluices, land clearing, and small buildings. These widely scattered
works, which would be subject to seasonal weather interruption, are phased
over six years and would not be suitable or attractive to international con-
tractors. Since there is no private construction industry in Burma, the ID
would be responsible for carrying out most of the civil works by force account.
63.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:  (a) for
equipment, machinery, spare parts, vehicles and materials: 100% of expendi-
tures if procured under ICB, either directly imported or manufactured locally,
or 70% if procured locally without ICB; (b) 60% of civil works expenditures;
(c) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services; and (d) 100% of foreign
expenditures for overseas training.
64.       Applications for withdrawals from the Credit would be fully docu-
mented, except that disbursement for civil works under force account would be
made against statements of expenditures, the detailed documentation for which
would be retained by the ID for review by the Association during project
supervision.
Operation and Maintenance
65.       The ID would establish four units for O&M of project flood control
and drainage facilities. Each unit would be headed by an Assistant Engineer
and all four units would be supervised by an Executive Engineer, who in turn
would report to the Project Director. An assurance was obtained that ID would
establish and equip each O&M unit prior to completing construction on the
island for which the unit would have O&M responsibility (Section 3.16 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
66.       ID would maintain its workshop buildings.  AC would maintain the
fertilizer godowns and training centers, and AMD the farm equipment service
stations. The annual O&M costs for project works, at constant prices, would
amount to about K 5.2 million (K 30 per acre), including K 3.1 million
(K 18 per acre) for the ID, K 1.6 million for the AC, and K 0.5 million for
the AMD. The latter would be largely covered by farmer payments for machine
repair and maintenance. An assurance was obtained that the Government would
ensure an adequate and timely availability of O&M funds for the implementing
agencies (Section 3.18 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       To aid MAF in the agricultural development of the project area and
to provide a base for the future evaluation of the project, a monitoring pro-
gram would be undertaken. Township Councils routinely maintain records from
which much of the pertinent information for the project areas would be com-
piled. However, agricultural surveys would be required to supplement that
information and to provide a consistent base for monitoring agricultural
development. Assurance was obtained that PIC would establish a project mon-
itoring unit to conduct benchmark surveys of the project area by January 31,
1979, and follow-up surveys by January 31, 1981, and by January 31 every
three years thereafter through 1994 (Section 3.07 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
68.       The capital costs of project works, excluding the costs of farm
machinery for which farmers would pay directly, and the costs of technical
assistance and training would amount to about K 260 million (US$35.1 million
equivalent) or K 1,480 per acre (US$200 equivalent), in 1978 constant prices.
The annual cost to recover this amount over a 30-year period including 10%
cost of capital would be about K 27 million per year (US$3.7 million equiva-
lent). Annual expenditures for project works O&M would amount to K 4.7
million (US$0.6 million equivalent), bringing the total annual cost to be
recovered to about K 32 million (US$4.3 million equivalent) or about K 185
per acre (US$25 equivalent).
69.       The present land tax, which varies by land quality, averages about
K 3.5 per acre in the project area. An increase in the land tax to recover
any part of project cost would require complete reassessment and reclassifi-
cation of lands throughout the townships in which the project is located.
Currently there are no institutional arrangements for undertaking such a
massive task. However, Government's compulsory paddy procurement system
would automatically tax incremental production in the project area directly
and progressively and would more than recover capital (including 10% interest)
and O&M costs for the proposed project.
70.       The difference between the projected rice export price (US$300 per
ton) and the Government's paddy procurement price plus milling, handling, and
transport costs of K 975 per ton rice (about US$131 equivalent) is comparable
to a tax amounting to about K 1,250 (US$170 equivalent) per ton.  Each farmer



- 19 -
is given a procurement quota, depending on his average and expected yields,
which varies from 7% to 75% of his paddy production. Given the projected
situation in the project area, it is estimated that the increase in GOB
net procurement earnings would amount to about K 88 million (US$12 million
equivalent) per year from incremental paddy procurement (71,000 tons rice)
in the project area generated by the project at full development. This would
more than recover full project capital (including 10% interest) and O&M costs,
i.e., K 32 million (US$4.3 million). Similar to the agreement reached with
the Government for the Paddyland I Project, an assurance was obtained that,
if the compulsory paddy procurement system were to be modified or abolished,
an alternative system of cost recovery would be formulated in consultation
with IDA (Section 3.15 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
71.       Under existing pricing policies, most farmers in the project area
have adequate production incentives. The procurement price for paddy was
increased by over 150% during the period November 1972 to July 1974 and, on
the recommendation of the recently established Rice Study Commission, pro-
curement prices for premium quality paddy were increased by 2% to 6% in
November 1977. With increasing costs of farm inputs, farmers' incentives
have started to erode in recent years and, consequently, an assurance was
obtained that the Government would periodically review and revise, if
necessary, its paddy pricing system to ensure that farmers have adequate
financial incentives to make the investments necessary to increase pro-
duction (Section 3.14 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
72.       The primary benefit of the project would be the increase in crop
production in the project area. Not only would crop damage be reduced be-
cause of greater protection from flooding and salt water inundation, but crop-
ping intensity would be increased (from an average of 103% to 140%) due to
provision of low-lift pumps and power tillers. Annual incremental production,
at full development, is estimated at 90,000 tons of rice, 2,000 tons of jute
and 19,000 tons of pulses, groundnuts and other crops. The project, at full
development, is expected to increase: (a) output of existing farms in the
project area by over 200%, (b) the number of farms by about 33%, thereby pro-
viding farmland for about 70% of the presently landless families in the area,
and (c) direct farm employment by about 240%. Farm labor requirements would
more than double from about 5 million to nearly 12 million man-days per year.
Farm employment in relation to labor availability would increase from 30% at
present to about 60% of expected future availability. The proposed project
would directly benefit about 19,500 farm families, of which 5,000 are pre-
sently landless families. An assurance was obtained that reclaimed lands
would be allotted to farmers who are totally or partially displaced by the
civil works of the project, to farmers with subeconomic holdings or landless
farmers, and to state farms and cooperatives (Section 3.10 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). It would directly improve the income oppor-
tunities for more than 75% of all project households.



- 20 -
73.       Burma's net foreign exchange earnings from incremental rice and
jute exports generated by the project are estimated at about US$20 million
equivalent annually. The economic rate of return of the proposed project is
estimated to be 24% at a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00=K 15.0. Investment
in the three polders in the Lower Delta (about 70% of total costs) would have
an estimated economic rate of return of about 22% while that in the Middle
Delta (about 30% of total costs) would have a higher rate of return of about
29%. The higher rate of return in the Middle Delta is a result of the lower
investment cost per acre (US$180 equivalent compared with US$210 equivalent)
and the larger area of dry season cultivation that is possible in these
Middle Delta areas.
Project Risks
74.       The project works would have no adverse affect on public health,
water quality, fisheries or transportation. The project would, however, be
exposed to two general risks. First, prices might not provide farmers with
sufficient incentives to use modern inputs required to produce the estimated
incremental production. Second, project implementation might be slower than
predicted because of delays in administrative decision making, particularly
when related to equipment procurement.
75.       It is the Government's declared policy to use prices as a means of
providing appropriate incentives to producers. In addition, the Economic
Committee of the Cabinet recently decided that prices for all agriculture
products should be reviewed regularly, at least once every year. In this
connection, the Government has established a Rice Study Commission, under
the Chairmanship of the Minister of Agriculture and Forests, to study all
aspects of production, processing, transportation, marketing and pricing of
rice. The first recommendation of this Commission resulted in the November
1977 increase of 2% to 6% in the price of premium quality paddy. Therefore,
with the assurance obtained from the Government on the periodic review and
revision of paddy pricing (para 71), the first risk appears manageable.
As for the second risk, the Government is aware of the need to increase the
absorptive capacity of implementing agencies and is taking appropriate mea-
sures to expedite project implementation. The Project Appraisal and Progress
Reporting Department of the Ministry of Planning and Finance is being
strengthened to help ministries, departments and corporations in project
preparation and implementation. Procedures for processing projects have been
simplified, and arrangements to ensure timely information on project delays
and prompt corrective action were adopted. In addition, a new committee was
established to oversee project preparation and implementation. Greater
authority in procurement matters has been given to individual ministries, and
this matter will continue to receive the close attention of the Government.
Therefore, with the proposed increase in the staff of ID and AC, this risk
also appears to be reasonable. Sensitivity analysis indicates that, even
if project implementation were delayed by two years, construction cost
increased by 25%, and estimated net benefits decreased by 25%, the project
would still be viable with an estimated 14% economic rate of return.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed Credit are
the establishment of the Project Unit (PU II), the appointment of the Project
Director and the assignment to work under the PU II of five executive engi-
neers from the ID and a project extension manager from the AC (Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 22, 1978






ANNEX I
TA6LE 3A                               *             Page 1 of 4 pages
BURMA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
L AND    A R EA    ( THO U    KM2)-- - - - - - - - - - - - -- -          - - -   - - - - - -
BURMA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       676.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIc.     107.6                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE            SRI LANKA      THAILAND        MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       50.0       70.0      120.0               170.0        210.0       440.0
POPULATtON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             21.8       27.0       30.8                12.5        36.3         10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         32.0       40.0       46.0               191.0        71.0         33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        204.0      253.0      286.0                516.0       263.0       165.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           43.6       41.3       39.5                33.1        44.3        36.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            24.4       19.3       15.B                 8.0        13.7         7.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        129.9                  48.3                 50.0        BO.0        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTH (YRS)         45.0       47.5       50.1                65.8        55.5        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..        2.7        2.7                 2.3         3.2          2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   1.B        2.2        2.2                 2.4         3.1         2.6
URBAN                                   5.7        3.7        4.6                 4.5         4.9         26.9
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            17.1       19.9       22.3                22.0         15.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.0        40.0      40.5                 40.0        45.1        44.7/a
t5 TO 64 YEARS                        56.0       57.0       56.0                 56.0        51.8        52.1/a
65 YEARS ANo OVER                       3.0        3.0        3                   4.0         3.1         3.2f-
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.8        0.8        0.8                 0.8         0.9          0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                 0.9/a      t.t/a      t.t/ab              1.4          1-1/a       1.6/i
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUaULATIVE, THOU)             ..         ..         ,.               215.3       470.0       222.2/a
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .          ..         ..         ..                 7.0        10.0         a.o/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         10600.0   10920.0   12300.0/b               4100.0    16700.o/b    3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)           68.0       70.0       67.8/b              52.0 /a     79.0         49s
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ..         ..       13.0 /F              9.0 /t        -70
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
4 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              14.6 /b      ..          .                18.8        22.0 /c    28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF Ho'!SEHOLDS            44.7 /b       ..      40.0/d               45.6        51.1 /fE    56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.5 /6       *-        8.0a/               7.4         5.6 /f      3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.5 1S       *-      21.0/                17.9        14.3 f%     11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..         ..                  ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             12270.0    6970.0    5440.0                      .      7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11310.0    7540.0/b 6260.0                  2730.0 /c  6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1980.0    1200.0    1180.0                  330.0 ZF   690.0        270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)                                10. 101.0  103.0    101.0       103.0       112.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               0u *       49.0       58.0                50.0         520         490 /b
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          12.1       13.0/C    12.9                 16.0         17.o/d      20.0 /F
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             30.9/c        *-                             * -         * -         4.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        56.0       87.0       85.0                 99.0        81.0       91.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      10.0       25.0       26.0                51.0 /d    16.0          34.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              11.0       10.0        10.0                12.0        12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECONDARY)                       0.5         1.4       1.4/b               0.4/d       14.0/e      3.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 59.7/c        *-       67.0                  ..        79.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (UPBAN)                   ..         *-         *-                2.7           ..         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLiNZS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (;;)                         ....                  ..77.5                        93.0           .0a
ACCESS TO ELECTRICI-Y
(X OF ALL Di.LLINGS)                     ..         ..         ..                9.0                     430/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       *          *           -                2.8                     30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            6.0       15.0      22.0                   *-        7a.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             10/c      1.0        1.2                 7.0         5.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY  (KWH/YR PER CAP)           19.0 -    22.0         25.0                65.0       124.0       362.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 0.5        0.6        0.4                 1.5         1.0         4.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AMNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
tnoooherci.. noted, data for 1960 refer to coy year between 1959 mad 1961, for 1970 between 1969 mand 1971, mad for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 ano 1976.
. he Selection of Malaysia me an objective country is based on its ability to combine a high rate of economic grcwh with an Adequate Level of
LUYMA         1960        Ratiott  of pop.l.ti..n cder 15 and 65 mad over to total 'abor force;             /b  1958, R.ngoon, arban;        /c  1962.
97 IaRatio of population under 15 mand 65 and over to total labor force;               /b  Peronto..  InL govemr-at srie   only;
0c 1964-66.
MIOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;                 /b  1977;    I.:  Urban only;
Id  1972;    /e  Government bospital astablichnents only.
SRI LAIIKA    1970      /a  AS percentage of employment;    /b  Registered unemployed;             /c  Goveranent only;       /d  Between 1965 end 1970 the duration
of general secondary education was increased from 5 to 7 years; data of voctional education refer C. tecbnical institutes
attached to th. Ministry of Education only.
THAILANDI     1970    Ia  Ratio of population  under 15 and 65 and over to economically active popolation age 11 years and over;    /b  Economically
active poPulation age 11 years mad over;    /c  gLural only;,   /4  1964-66;    Ia  Public schoo1s. which Include tecnbicsl
educationt at the post-secoadary leval.
MALAYSIA      1970    KaPnnslrMlaysia;    /b  1964-68;    /c  Piped water inside.
R9, June 12. 1978
OEPIRITIOHS OF SOCiA INDICAToRtS
La-d 4rea (thou Iut2)                                                                            Ppoulatioo per nursing person - population divided by aomber of practicing
Total - T-ta1  -oo-  area c Oaprising, land ara and inland vatare.                                 sale and fosai  graduate nurses, "tratos" or "e.rtified" nurses, end
Agi.- Most recent -stimate of agricultural aer. used temporarily or pem.-                      venilisry personnel with training Or experience.
...ntly for crop., pastures, narkot & kitchen gird.s. or to Li. fallo-                         Population per hospital bed - Popuistion dividad by  smber of hospital beds
eveileble in public and private general and specialized hospital and
CNP oer .npita (LCIS$  - GNP par capita estima,tes at cstrent market prices,                       rehabilitation centene; exc Ludes nuring home end  establishmeant. fa-
osoltdby  -ar  cun-oraio.- Cshad 55 World gank Atlas (1974-lb basis) ;                     custodial and p.evetive care.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                     Par ..pits supply of celorias (7. of rg.uir-anet.l - Computed fro  energy
equivlalet.ef nSet fond supplies available in country per capita pair day;
Population nod vital statistics                                                                    availsbi, euppiies cOmpri.e domestic prod.ction, imports Lessexcports, and
Pp,ain(oid-year million; - As of July fIrst:  if nut avilable, average                       changes in Stock; mar ..pplias aexluda animal fee,sed,  quantities u-ed
of t.o end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 end 1976 data.                                             in fond prnce...Ing and lmosse  in distribution; raquireemeto wars estimated
by FAO based on physiological seedia for normal activity and health consid-
F.pul.tion d...sity   per sq-r on - Mid-year population per Squire kilosmeter                      ering enviroustal temperature, body vaighta, age enod cam  distrihutioam  of
(100 hectares) of total are.                                                                     population, mand allowing 107. for waste at howaeboLd Level.
Population d ..sity -Par Square en of aeri.. Lend - Computd as ebov. for                         Pot capita supply of protein (Crg   per day) - Frotein ctontet of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                          net eupply of food per day; mt supply of food is defined as above ; require-
masts fer eli comntries established by usDA Econmic gesearcb Servicesa
-Vita1letatiotico                                                                                   provide for a ainimess, allowance of 60 grows of total protein per day, and
Crud. birth rate nor thousand, average - Annual Live biLrths per thousand of                       20 gross of anisai and puls* protein, Of which 10 gree  sheuld be anmal-
aid-yost populerion; ten-ymar srithmatic: aerarges  nding is 1969 and 1970,                      protein; these standards aer  lowt then thc.e of 75 gra   of total protein
end five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                   and 23 gree  of enimal protein as so everage far the would, proposed by FAO
Crude death rete par thousa-d.  --ens  - Annual deaths per thouaed of mid-year,                    in the Third World Food Surrey.
population; ten-year arithmti. averages endLeg in 1960 and 1970 end five-                     Per capita prtotin supply from  animal and misIs  - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for me.t recent estimate.                                            d.riond from seimLaL and pulsee in gm         per day.
Infant mortality ron. f/thou) -Annusal deaths of infants under one year of age                  Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - A,wal d4atha per thousend In qe group 1-4
per thousand Live births.                                                                        years, to childrem  In this age growp; soggeated as as indicator of
Life expect.ncy at birth (vrs) -Avraga nombar of years of life ressaining at                       malnutrition.
birth; us-aly five-year average. enIng La 1960, 1970  end 1975 for develop-
ing countrimas                                                                                Eduss do
Gross  -production rate - -Iveag. n.-ber of live daughters a woman will bear                     Ad Ius ted enrOllmsnt ratio -  rdEX schoocl - inrolimnt ef all ages as per-
in bet noeral reproductive period If she experiences present age-specific                        canag  Of pa."yscol-g    poplaIon  includes childrem &ged 6-1l years
fertility rate; usually five-year sweeges ending in 1960, 1970 sad 1975                         but adjusted for differest lengths of primary education; for n-etriex with
iur developing coutries.                                                                         universal education,  nroilmant may eucceed lDOOtwsom xs    ppil1s ama halo
?Puulatio  zrowch rate (7.1 - coral - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                     or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960.70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adjusted anroliemant re,tioe - secodr  ahon  - Comuted as shove ; secondary
Population oroyth rate(.)   urban - Computed like growth rate of total                             education requires etlat for  ears of approved priemoy inetruction;
popuIstion; different definitions of urban ares may affect comparability of                      provides general, vocational or mteaher training instructione for pupils
data among nOuatries.                                                                            of 12 to 17 years Of age; nmrreapeedcamaa  Oovae are gener-ly .aclded.
Urb-a Populotimn (7. of totel) -Ratio of urban to total population ; different:                  rer-facols   pvddEirtadscond levels) -Total years of
definitions of urban ereasa a  affect neparability of data samong countries,                     scoln;a   eodry level  v ctomal instruction may be pertisLly or
completely eacluded.
Age struotr  (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 yeasm),                      Vocational eornllMem  CP  Of eaco*dmtyI - Vocational imatitmtine, Limowi
and retired (65 years and over) as.ecnae  of mid-year population,                                technical, industrial ur other program whicb operaen independently or es
Aes. dep..,l ...v ratio - Ratio of population under 15 end 65 mand over to those                   departmeots of aenondary imatit.Ctiem.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rate C%) - Literate adulta (able to reed and write) as par-
Etono,aic dependency rotio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovear to                      contage of total adult population aged 15 years and Over.
the labor fares insegou  of 15-64. year.
Fomiy elns,is -  ccptera (c,Stutative. thou) - Comualtive skomber of acceptors             Housinet
of birtb-coatro1 devices under Auspices of national femily plaoming progoma                   Persons par room  (urban) - Average numsber of parsose par room  in Occupied
sinc. Ineaption.                                                                                 Conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings aselude nm-pelmmect
F mily plamsing - users CT. Of maried women) - Percentages of maried waome of                      structures and unocupied ports.
chiid-bearing ag. (1.9-44 years) who wa birth-aonteil devices t  all macvied                  O.ccupid dwellings wihot  Ise   Water (71-Occupied cos,"tatinel *enilimg
women In sam  age group,                                                                         in urban and rural are  wihot imids or ouceide pipe  water facilitlee
sa paeretege of eli occupied dwellings.
Emoloment                                                                                        Access to electrictty ftOf all duallinee) - Constiomsl dwellings wide
Total Labor force (thousad) - goonmically active persona , including arued                         electricity in Living quarters aa, portent of total dweltlings I.  nesl end
frores and unemployed but excluding hewewivee, studeets, air..; definitions                      rural areasa.
in ventous couatries are not comparsble.                                                      Rural dwalLLpax connecte  to electricity (7)-Comuted m  absove for rurnt
Labor force in anricultur. (7.5 - .Agricu1tural labor force (in fanning, forestry                  dwellings only.
busting and fishing) aa percentage Of total labor force.
Ueemaelove  M7 of labor force)   U nemployed are usually defined as persona who                  Eancomprion
are able mand willing to takea job, out of a job on a given day, remeined out                 Radio receivers lPos  theu pop) - All types Of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, mad seekiing work foc s specIfied mipimom  period not exceeding one                    c  gene,ral public par thousand of population; sexcludes omlicemseed receivers
weak; nay not he comparable boetwe  coutries due to different definitions                        io countries and is years when registration  of radio  etan was in effect;
of unemployed mand source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, amaple                    data for recent years may not be oomparabl. since est .ctri.s abolisehd
Passenmter cars feet thou Pop) - Passenger oars cmprnse astor cars oesting
Tpons ditaribution - Percentage of private incme (both is cash and kind)                           Loss than sight persona;: excludes embulance, bearses a"  miliLtary
received by richest 57., richest 20%, poorest 201, mand poorst 407. Of homes-                    vehicles.
holds.                                                                                        tle.cri.ity (kwhfyr per ..P) - Annual consomption of isdustriol, cmereii.L
public mand private electricity in kilowatt loure per ..pit., goperally
Dilstributiorn of Land ownership - percentages of Land owned by wealthiest 107.                    base.d on production daca, without ailow.nca for lessee in  rtida but allow-
end poorest 197. of Land owners.                                                                 ing for imports mand experts of slectri.lty.
Newaprint (kht/yr por tee) PeFr capita annual coosumpeton in kilograma
Meatch a-d Nutritlan                                                                               eseiseed from  domestic production PlIs Set iports of ..-wpri,cc.
Pon,,iaca- par physician - Population divided by ..cb.r of practicing
physi.ians qualified from .a sdical school at university Level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA -  BURMA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1977                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH t%. constant prices)
US $ Mln.        %                      FY1965-70         FY1970-77            FY1965-77
GNP at Market Prices          3,968          100.0                        2.0               3.5                 2.6
Gross Capital Formation         406           10.2                      - 3.7            - 0.8                - 1.9
Gross Domestic Saving           339            8.5                           -                _                   _
Foreign Capital Inflow           67            1.7                          -                 -                   _
Exports of Goods, NFS           212            5.3                     - 13.6              4.3                - 3.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           270            6.8                     - 10.5            - 7.8                - 8.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY 1977
a!
Value Added                          Labor Forcer                     V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.      %                      Mln.         %                     US $          %
Agriculture b/                 1868           46.7                  8.4         67.8                   222          68
Industry                        355            8.9                  0.9          7.1                  394         121
Services/Trade                 1706           42.7                  2.3         18.3                  742         228
Unallocated  c/                  6             1.7                 Qa 7          6.8                   972L        30
Total                     3997          100.0                12.3        100.0                   325         iOO
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Union Government
(Kyats M%.)          7 of GDP                  (KYats  Mln.)        % of GDP
FY77                FY77                        FY77               FY77
Current Receipts                      4803 V/               17.9 /                      3376                12.6
Current Expenditure                    3854                 14.4                        3762                14.1
Current Surplus                         949                  3.5                       - 386               - 1.4
Capital Expenditures                   1704                  6.4                         400                 1.5
External Assistance (gross)             799                  3.0
* All data for FY 1977 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ Total labor force: unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
b/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
c! Mining, power, and construction.
d/ Includes current surplus/deficit of Boards and Corporations.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA
1970       1971       1972       1973      1974        1975       1976        1977
M?NCY, CREDIT and PRICES                     Sep.       Sep.       Sep.       Sep.       Mar.       Mar.       Mar.        Mar.
(mln Kyats outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                      2422       2399       2793       3581       4065       5342       6052        6335
Bank Credit to Public Sector               2616       3043       3676       4342       5040       6447       6663        6429
Bank Credit to Private Sector               537        557        668       1000        685        639        956        1457
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          23.6       23.0       25.9       30.5       27.7       27.6       25.7        23.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)           91.0       92.9      100.0      123.5      156.6      206.4      252.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        -4.0        2.1        7.6       23.5       26.8       31.8       22.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                9.1       16.3       20.8       18.1       16.1       27.9        3.4         3.5
Bank credit to Private Sector               3.9        3.7       19.9       49.7    - 31.5       - 6.7       49.6        52.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY 1977)
(USS mln)
FY75    FY76      FY77                                                    US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)                     Rice and rice produces               109       51
Teak                                 57       27
Merchandise Trade               -99.9   -30.9       -58.8                Pulses and beans                       9       4
Exports, mainly f.o.b.          176.6   f79.9       192.8                Animal feedstuff                       7        3
imports, mainly f.o.b.         -276.5  -210.8    -251.6                  Base metals and ores                   8       4
Services and private transfers 11.4  - 18.7    -  8.3
Official grants (net)            2        2          30.3                All other commodities                 23       11
Total                          213     100
Current account               -67.3   -26.3    - 36.8
EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1977
Long-term capital               117.2    25.0        41.6
Foreign loans                    85.7    39.8        86.7                                                           US $ Mln
Debt repayment                 - 23.5   -23.1       -39.2
Other capital (net)              55.0      8.3      - 5.9                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Sniort-term bank credit          32.8   -18.3       -18.8                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 320.9
Total outstanding & Disbursed
Capital account               150.0      6.7       22.8
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for FY77 a
Errors and omissions              9.5   - 9.2        -6.0
Overall balance                92.2   -28.8       -20.0                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  19.6
Total outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)    172.5   134.9         109.3
Net Reserves   (end year)        38.9    39.7       40.8
KATE OF EXCHANGE                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING, July 31, 1977  (Million US $):
Through Dec. 27, 1971    From Feb.19,1973 to Jan.25,1975                                                  IBRD         IDA
tS $ 1.00 = K. 4.76        US$1.00 = K. 4.81
From Jan.25,1975 to May 1, 1977       Outstanding & Disbursed                              48.7
FruTn Dec.27,1971 to       SDR 1.00 = K. 7.74                     Undisbursed                                         109.8
Feb.19,1973             US$1.00 =  K.6.67                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                      158.5
US $ 1.00 - K. 5.35
As of May 2, 1977
SDR 1.00 = K. 8.51
US$1.00 = K. 7.33
-a  Ratio of Debt Service to Merchandise Exports.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department,
Division C
December, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1978
US$ Million
Loan or                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                            33.1
413        1973  Burma   Inland Water Transport        -       16.3        0.2
414        1973  Burma   Third Railways                -       16.7        0.7
483        1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0        5.2
493        1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0       14.9
551        1975  Burma   Telecommunications            -       21.0       16.5
597        1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5        6.9
642        1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0       26.1
671        1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0        9.7
686        1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0       15.6
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development               -        5.5        5.5
Total                                    33.1    164.0       101.3
of which has been repaid               33.1       -
Total now outstanding                      -      164.0
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid  2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a            -      164.0
Total Undisbursed                                 101.3      101.3
Total Disbursed                                    62.7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 413    Inland Water Transport Project; US$16.3 Million Credit of
July 2, 1973; Effective Date: September 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement was slow in the beginning because the Inland Water
Transport Corporation's management was not familiar with IDA procedures.
The implementation of the project has been affected by high tender prices
for certain equipment and materials. As a result, the scope of the project
has been reduced and four passenger vessels have been constructed locally
instead of importing six vessels as originally planned. This, however,
did not adversely affect the overall objectives of the project. The project
is substantially completed, and a project completion mission visited Burma
in May 1978.
Cr. No. 414    Third Railways Project; US$16.7 Million Credit of July 2,
1973; Effective Date: September 17, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The physical execution of the project has made good progress. Ex-
cept for diesel locomotives, whose maintenance backlog continues to be the
constraint on the Burma Railways Corporation's (BRC) carrying capacity, the
rehabilitation of passenger coaches and freight wagons, as planned under
the project, was completed in March 1977. Freight tonnage, which declined
drastically during 1972/73-1974/75, shows signs of recovery, but average
haul continues to decrease, reflecting increases in shorter distance traffic.
Passenger traffic continued its increasing trend in long-distance travel,
until 1976/77, when it began to decline substantially. In spite of past
increase in passenger traffic, tariffs, and railway control of labor and
material costs, BRC's 1975/76 financial performance was poor, with an oper-
ating ratio of 104% and a net deficit of K 15.1 million. This was prima-
rily due to a 98% increase in fuel cost which, in turn, was due to huge
increases in prices of imported coal used for steam traction. The provisional
results indicate a further deterioration in the financial performance for
1976/77 due to decline in passenger-miles and freight ton-miles and in spite
of a 13.4% (5.4% effective rate) increase in passenger fares beginning
July 1, 1976. The last project supervision took place in February 1977.
A project completion mission is scheduled for August/September 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project made a very good start. Within three months of the
signing of the Credit Agreement, the Project Implementation Committee was
established and functioning effectively; procurement actions were initiated
for US$12.6 million equivalent of equipment and spare parts. In January 1975
the contract for procurement of 10,000 pumps and accessories was awarded to
a local supplier, Heavy Industries Corporation. All units have been delivered.
Some 6,000 units have been sold and the balance are scheduled to be sold
before December 1978. The jute baling machines have been installed and are
operating. Delays have been encountered in construction of the plants due
to work of higher priority being assigned to the Construction Corporation
and some auxiliary facilities have not been completed. The remaining work
is expected to be completed by December 1978. Some 535 units of construction
equipment were rehabilitated under the equipment repair program. Nearly all
spare parts have been delivered and a reasonable inventory remains for future
maintenance. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments is now
completed. It is still possible that the entire project will be completed by
the end of 1978.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Project implementation has improved substantially. The results of
the most recent logging season indicate major improvements in road building,
planning, fuel availability, machine supervision, training. Spares avail-
ability has improved and a system for purchasing emergency spares has been
agreed. Sawmill rehabilitation and construction has improved. Key problems
continue to be in mechanical maintenance and management accounting. A second
forestry project, to include extraction, sawmilling and plantations, has been
identified. Project preparation will be by GOB, with FAO/CP assistance.
Identification of further forest based wood-using projects will be undertaken
by GOB.
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunications Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date:  July 23, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30,
1980
Procurement action has been taken on all major items and 95% of the
credit amount has been committed. Due to initial delays in preparation of
specification, procurement and contracting and delays in civil works, execu-
tion of the project is about a year behind schedule. The OPEC Special Funds
has agreed to finance a cost overrun of about $3.1 million. Cost increases
due to the devaluation of the U.S. dollar with respect to the Japanese yen
on committed contracts and a few items of the project which are not yet



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
committed are being reviewed during the forthcoming appraisal of the second
telecommunications project. PTC is operating satisfactorily and is meeting
the prescribed rate of return.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
The project's performance is improving although major problems
remain. The field services component under the Veterinary and Animal
Husbandry Department (VAHD) although delayed in some respects, is generally
being implemented successfully. Vaccine production is proceeding satis-
factorily though improvement has been delayed by slow procurement. The
consultancy in diagnostic procedures is underway. VAHD is now implementing
the communal pasture and water point components which were transferred from
the Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC). There has been
some improvement in LDMC's performance though it continues to emphasize State
dairy farm type development rather than fulfilling its demonstration and
supply role originally envisaged. The current management of LDMC is expected
to benefit from technical assistance which has been recently arranged with
FAO. The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science continues to
show little progress in strengthening livestock education and will receive
greater attention in subsequent missions. Project disbursements have improved,
and are now in line with the revised estimates.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Credit was declared effective following the establishment of a
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) and the Project Unit (PU). Key staff
have been assigned for survey, procurement, planning and design. In January
1977 bids for the supply of key construction equipment were opened. However,
awards of contracts for the supply of this equipment were made only in
September 1977, and only a small part of the equipment was delivered in
time for the first construction season (November 1977 to May 1978). In the
meantime, the Irrigation Department (ID) completed construction surveys and
final designs and, in the first construction season, it completed a targeted
construction program using existing equipment which was released from other
work recently completed. All ID staff has now been appointed. Despite the
slow start, the ID will be able to complete project construction on schedule
if no further major delays occur. Early in 1977, the Agriculture Corporation
(AC) launched the intensive agricultural extension program for five project
townships, and by December 1977 it had fully staffed the extension program
with village and township level officers assigned full time to extension
activities. These officers are carrying out a program of periodic and
regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training and Visits program)
which has been well received by farmers. In September 1977, consultants
began work on the hydrologic investigations and in December 1977, consultants



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
began work on the paddy storage and handling studies. Although disbursements
are lagging behind appraisal estimates, total disbursement as of May 31, 1978,
amounted to about US$5.1 million.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Expected Date of Effectiveness: March 18, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
There have been top management changes since the Credit was negoti-
ated (Managing Director and Chief Traffic Manager), which has partly affected
project implementation. The dredging manager was assigned in January 1977.
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC), the Executing Agency, appointed Crown Agents in
July 1977 to prepare tender documents for equipment and machinery, and orders
for cargo handling and other equipment and materials have been placed. BPC
employed a consulting firm, in August 1977, to prepare documents for the
rehabilitation and repairs of the suction dredger; bids have been evaluated
and award of contract is about to be made. Further orders for spare parts for
existing equipment have been placed. The dredger rehabilitation is currently
about nine months behind schedule, and procurement of other items up to six
months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Engineering for the project is virtually complete and nearly all
procurement documents have been prepared. Commencement of procurement was
delayed by about eight months largely due to a Government decision in October
1977 to change the basic procurement approach. The major component of the
project, the tin dredge, will now be procured on a single-responsibility basis
rather than by components as originally planned. Accordingly, the project has
been readvertised, internationally. Procurement documents have been revised
and most should be issued by June 1978, with bids for nearly all packages in
by August. The change in procurement approach and the subsequent delay,
coupled with exchange rate changes, indicate a possible increase in capital
costs of perhaps 30%. Project completion may only slip about three to four
months if faster delivery of the dredge on a turnkey basis can be obtained.
The project was off to a good start but has suffered through ministerial and
management changes.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date:  February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consultants, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing
Agency, started field work on April 6, 1978. The project is receiving the
complete support of the Government and the project agency (Applied Research
Division) has performed creditability. No major problems are apparent and
relationships amongst the government, the project agency, and IDA are



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
excellent. Close liaison is being maintained with UNDP/FAO to ensure that
there are no conflicts between the Seed Development Project and a proposed
second phase UNDP/FAO project at Yezin. The first progress report from ARD
is due August 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project
May 1976 to August 1977
(b)   Agencies preparing the project
GOB's Irrigation Department and FAO/IBRD/CP
(c)   Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project
January/February 1975 (as part of series)
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 22, 1977
(e)   Date of completion of negotiations
May 25, 1978
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness
October 1978
Section II.    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III.   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of PU II, appointment of the Project
Director and assignment to work under the PU II of five
executive engineers from the ID and a project extension
manager from the AC (para 58).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Other Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would increase the ID staff in accord-
ance with the project implementation schedule (para 54).
(b)  The Government would appoint according to the time-
table agreed with the Association extension officers
required (para 55).
(c)  The Government would cause the extension service
in the ten townships involved with the Paddyland I
and II project areas to follow the T&V approach
(para 55).
(d)  The Government would maintain arrangements for the
timely distribution of agriculture input supplies
and services to all parts of the project areas
(para 55).
(e)  The AMD would charge farmers the full costs for
all farm machinery repair and maintenance services
(para 56).
(f)  The MAB would employ consultants acceptable to the
Association (para 57).
(g)  The Government would provide farmers with medium-
and long-term credit for the purchase of bullocks,
farm machinery and implements (para 56).
(h)  The ID would establish and equip O&M Units (para 65).
(i)  The PIC would establish a project monitoring unit
(para 67).
(j)  If the existing compulsory paddy procurement system
is modified or abolished, the Government would
formulate, in consultation with the Association,
an alternative system of cost recovery (para 70).
(k)  The Government would periodically review and revise,
if necessary, its paddy pricing system to ensure
that farmers in the project area are left with
sufficient financial incentives (para 71).
(1)  The Government would allot reclaimed lands to dis-
placed farmers, to farmers with subeconomic holdings
and landless farmers, and to state farms and coopera-
tives (para 72).



IBRD 13384RI
9,5'                           Om                                    9h,                           JUNE 197B
BHUTAN)      >T 1         CHINA                                                                                                 BURMA
_INDIA                                                                                                                       PADDYLAND
DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
JO !,,                ,.2 >2      -       <                                 ICQob                                           Project Location
BURMA AA       -     VIETNAM. 
0   -5>  _  --5- ~~~~~~~~~~~~d'0(j'   ~~~~~~Thi- a has b-enpeparedbv the
* \>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 =B/40k'4 Vt9                                   90XS-1--lyf
-5-  (  i                                                H   ado                                     tberroseaa,eorearHen  th  he edese
>-    -o                        enz                                       the reper~~~~~~~~~~.,t r wh,oh sets at-e bd
00  -'  NC,>                                                          47                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The d--t-,erar-nd ass the
A dasorry es |THAILAND                                                                                                               of -he, - th. . v th
Arerof                                                                                                              W fk tf, a'p 'y
g~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- YGPUA  i(dg cr5Os Nhe lar  ;Ss 
Mop  r                                            o                                            r              anlty arne trhrea .,,rse
F/       a  .CAAABOCI  IS                                              A.-P-,f...ohbr-hsdi-rfe
p~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-y
10  Tlroba~~~~~~~~rg0                     1  ~~~~~~                                     Hrnosrh,a.a                    7'
-17-/7                                                                    PoPwrTilr  td  rgos
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5                                                                          oe iJr.rn un srieSoin
0    T( g  n- --g\
9-                                                                        96 
I                             ACHAUNG O
NGAPUTAW                    M AI Ng                                                                          HNW
UL Ei~YUN       ~     ~     yra
Y     /          ~~~Ky.g.n~                                                                   5 T~tks 
Proposed Middle Delta Protect Are.
E7 Proposed Loweer Delta Project Areaos
'oa4dtIanrd IPotelct Areas
12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U U                                                          Medtun,Workshop iMoior Repair for Pureps,
Power Tillers anrd Tractors)
~~~~7                                                      A ~~~~~~~~ APower Tillers ond Pump Se-ice St.rimts
6'                        0       *       0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fertilizer Storoge Focitities
*AgrSrhlIrer Extensioe Training Centers
Township Boundaeries
0   020 39 40  59  69  70 50  90Rod
I(IILOMETERS                                                      r-b,- i--rEorstm  Erelooallrenfs
9         10        O                  40        50                                       -      Proposed Ne. Emrbsrekeenrs
MILES                                                            -------Railways
---State or Dms.lor, Bourrdarres






IBRD 13385R1
JUNE 1978
N                                                )4                                                                                          BURMA
) )                                                                                                       PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT 1I PROJECT
THONGWA ISLAND
P ( Moubin                                                     (>   = p ( Typical Middle Delta Area
\  ....J..j..|...&._ Rehobl,tol,on of E.ist,g Enbanktents
-~                                                   /4/ 5<& J                                              Proposed New Emb-nkment
*      SlI ce(Mclor)
*      Sl,,ce (Meaot)
      Inlet Req.lotor
IPoposed Droinage Chonnel
Y   E.st,,g G..ge Sites
LoAd to be Recla-med
8 Rivets
-  Small Creek Closutes
Pipe Cul,erts                            C
~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
5A'*5 One. St S,Ot tSfO*,.S.
x k \ ~< A \V>2            3  ,'X~  \
01
MULES
0- ~ ~ ~~IOMTR
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~'C  Sinaae
to                       AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aka






IBRD 13386 RI
PROPOSED                                                                                                                                       JUNE 1978
DELTA PROJECT SITES
AOda~uhSea
DVLPE      PROJECPADDYLAND
Typical Lower Delta Project Area
/.L.J...t   /P    roposed  New    Emb onkment
/   .  t   S   _       _      ill jb             ({yf.       .                |         _   _  _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Drainage Channel
/ ,~~~~~~~~~ _ < / t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Major Sluices
/- / _ ->J >0 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                             LandJ to  bc Reclaimed
X   -'%-_o__O_ __  -'// j/   /  0    I    2    3    4    5
KILOMETERS
/ nhl map cat be creeand r heWoNd51aksttaffh.emctcreb for0th8 /o  /                             0            1            2            3
f btheteed.,,fhreto rnctattd /Thede/nortnatnscoedand-   t e                                                              IES
affr/etefs at cdgnnoOttre/gastac of /o 'eitt ora/epcsnto



