Document of
The World Bank  FtILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rcport No. 1908a-BA
BURMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
June 2.2, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornianc. Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 2, 1977, the Burmese Kyat has been officially valued at
8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and consequently its value floats
relative to other currencies. The following exchange rate is used throughout
this report, except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00       =    Kyat (K) 7.4
K 1.00         =    US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                       Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                  =   0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                  =   0.405 hectare (ha)           2
1 square mile (sq mi)            2.590 square kilometers (km )
1 cubic foot (cu ft)             28.32 liters (1)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)             0.765 cubic meter (m )3
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)              12,344 cubic meters (m )
1 cubic foot per                         3
second (cusec)             =   0.028 m /sec
1 pound (lb)                 =   0.453 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (ton - 2,240 lbs)=   1,016 kilograms
Burmese Units               English/US Units                 Metric Units
1 vis (vi)               3.60 lb                                1.63 kg
1 pyi             =      3.00 pint (dry)               =        1.65 1
1 basket(16 pyi)         3.00 peck                              26.4 1
1 basket Paddy           46.0 lbs (.0205 ton)         =         20.9 kg
I basket Rice            75.0 lbs (.0335 ton)                   34.0 kg
BURMA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Acronyms Frequently Used for Government Organizations
AC        -    Agriculture Corporation
AFPTC     -    Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AMD       -    Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARI       -    Agricultural Research Institute
CD        -    Cooperative Department
GOB       -    Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
ID        -    Irrigation Department
MAB       -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MEIC      -    Myanma Export-Import Corporation
MOC       -    Myanma Oil Corporation
MPF       -    Ministry of Planning and Finance
PIC       -    Project Implementation Committee
PSD       -    Planning and Statistics Department (of MAF)
PU        -    Project Unit
SD        -    Survey Department
SLRD      -    Settlement and Land Records Department
TB        -    Township Bank
UBB       -    Union of Burma Bank
VB        -    Village Bank
VLC       -    Village Land Committee
Acronyms Frequently Used for Government Officials
AE        -    Assistant Engineer
AEE       -    Assistant Executive Engineer
EE        -    Executive Engineer
ES        -    Engineering Surveyor
DTEM      -    Deputy Township Extension Manager
PEM       -    Project Extension Manager
SAE       -    Sub-Assistant Engineer
SE        -    Superintending Engineer
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
TEM       -    Township Extension Manager
TPC       -    Township Project Committee
VEM       -    Village Extension Manager
VTEM      -    Village Tract Extension Manager
Abbreviations
APS       -    Advance Purchase System
GNP       -    Gross National Product
HHWL      -    Highest High Water Level
hp        -    Horsepower
HSD       -    High Speed Diesel Fuel
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety (paddy)
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
Paddyland I -  The Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project
(Credit No. 642-BA)
Paddyland II-  The proposed project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






GLOSSARY
Kwin      -    A block of land (roughly 1 sq mi) surveyed cadastrally
and mapped with a scale of 16 inches = 1 mi.
Mayin     -    Dry season crop (presently rainfed)
Myanma    -    Burma
Paddy     -    Unhulled rice
Polder    -    A tract of low land protected from flooding and for the
most part reclaimed; in this project an island enclosed
on all sides by river flood embankments and drained
from the interior through sluices.
Tatontum  -    A standard farm size which is the approximate area work-
able by one bullock-pair and which varies from place
to place according to the nature of the soils and
types of crops grown (typically 10 ac to 13 ac in
the project area).






BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........................................                    1
Agricultural Sector ...........................                  1
Government Agricultural Development
Policy and IDA Lending Strategy ....           .........       2
Project Formulation ...........................                  3
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ...................................                   4
Location ......................................                  4
Climate .......................................                  5
Topography and Soils ..........................                  5
Farm Size, Land Tenure, Population and
Present Farm Income Levels ....           ..............       6
Agricultural Practices  .....8..................                 8
Agricultural Supporting Services ....           ..........       9
Infrastructure ................................                 10
III. THE PROJECT.                                                             11
Main Features ........         .........................        il
Project Works ........         .........................        12
Water Supply, Quality and Demand ....           ..........      16
Engineering Design ......          ......................       17
Environmental Effects ......           ...................      17
Implementation Schedule ......           .................      17
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .18
Cost Estimates .18
Financing .18
Procurement .20
Disbursements .20
Accounts and Audits .21
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .21
Project Organization .21
Project Implementation .23
Land Acquisition for Project Works .26
Allotment of Reclaimed Land .26
Operation and Maintenance of Civil Works                        27
Project Monitoring and Evaluation .27
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Burma
in October 1977 comprised of Messrs. E. D. Hunting, P. N. Gupta, T. Persaud,
and S. Suntharalingam (IDA) and U. Hpu (Consultant).



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICE:S, FARMS INCOMES AND COST
RECOVERY   ................   ..........................  28
Agricultural Production .......................      28
Market  Prospects   ..............................   30
Prices   ........................................    31
Farm   Incomes   ..................................  32
Cost Recovery.34
Cost ~ ~ Rcvry ....................................................3
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....    ..............  35
Overall  Effect   ................................   35
Employment Opportunities ......................      35
Household Income Effects ......................      36
Benefits to the Economy .......................      36
Economic  Ana'Lysis   .............................  36
Project   Risk   ..................................  38
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   .........   39
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
T-1   Climatic Data
T-2   Estimated Requirements for Pumps
T-3   Estimated Pump Water Requirements
T-4  Project Cost Estimate
T-5  ID Civil Works O&M Cost During the Seven-year
Implementation Period
T-6  AC Cost of Incremental Extension Service and Godown
Operation During the Seven-year Implementation Period
T-7  List of Equipment for Reserved Procurement
T-8   Expenditure Schedule
T-9  Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
T-10  Credit Disbursement Schedule
T-ll  ID Typical Annual O&M Cost for Flood Control and Drainage Works
T-12  AC Typical Annual O&M Cost for One 1,200 Ton Farm Inputs Godown
T-13 AC Annual Cost of Incremental Agricultural Extension Services
for ten Townships
T-14  Farmer's Typical Annual O&M Cost for Small Irrigation Pumps
T-15  Present and Future Cropped Areas and Production
T-16  Prices Used in the Farm Budget Analyses
T-17  Inputs, Labor and Draft Power Use per Acre
T-18  Farm Budgets - Thongwa Island
T-19  Farm Budgets - Lower Delta Islands
T-20  Compulsory Paddy Quota Schedule



-3-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
T-21  Farm Project Rent Estimates
T-22  World Market Prices
T-23  Inputs and Outputs Economic Price Structure
T-24  Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
T-25  Economic Cost Streams
T-26  Economic Benefit Streams
C-1   Project Implementation Schedule
C-2   The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests Organization Chart
C-3   Irrigation Department Construction Organization
C-4   Organization Chart of the Training and Visit System
Extension Program, the Paddyland I and II Projects
Chart for the Paddyland I & II Projects
C-5   Cropping Calendars
C-6   Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
ANNEX 2 EQUIPMENT LIST AND PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
T-1   Summary Equipment List
T-2   Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
ANNEX 3 TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE CONSULTING SERVICES FOR MAB
ANNEX 4 RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE FILE
LIST OF MAPS
13384R Project Location
13385R Thongwa Island -- Typical Middle Delta Area
13386R Typical Lower Delta Project Area






BURMA
APPRAISAL OF THE
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Over 85% of Burma's population of about 32 million is rural.
Average per capita income is about US$130 per year, placing Burma amopg the
25 least develoied nations. Despite a low population density (120/mi com-
pared to 500/mi in India) and favorable and largely unexploited natural
resources, real growth in national incomes averaged only about 2.5% over the
decade prior to 1975. Overall investment levels were low (about 10% of GNP);
hence exports declined. Over this period, the population grew at about 2.2%
annually, the result being virtually no growth in per capita income.
Agricultural Sector
1.02      The agricultural crop sector dominates Burma's economy (recently
about 66% of employment, 58% of total export earnings, and 27% of the Gross
Domestic Product), but over the decade prior to 1976, growth in agricultural
output averaged a disappointing 2.3% per year. Production of rice, Burma's
main food staple and primary export, showed no growth in this period, with
the exception of 1975 which had very favorable growing conditions and conse-
quently the volume and value of rice exports declined. The poor performance
in rice production, and in agriculture in general, was mainly due to: (a)
insufficient levels of capital investment (out of total public investment
between 1971 and 1975, agriculture received only 7%); (b) inadequate price
incentives to farmers, until prices were raised in 1973; (c) shortages of
inputs; and (d) limited and thus ineffective support services, especially
agricultural extension and credit. The main opportunities for GOB to increase
agricultural exports in the short-term are to increase rice production incen-
tives, provide quick returning capital investments, and improve farm support
services.
1.03      Burma's 260,000 sq mi are made up of four climatic and topo-
graphical regions: the Western and Northern Hills, the Shan Plateau, the
Central Region, and the Arakan and Tenasserim Coastal regions. The Central
Region where the project would be located is the most densely settled and
heavily cultivated. Forests, which contain several species of valuable
timber, particularly teak, cover almost half of Burma, and swamps, rivers,
lakes, roads, settlements, and grazing land make up about one quarter of
the country.
1.04      Of the quarter of the land (45 M ac) considered arable, only
about 20 M ac are presently cultivated. The remaining 25 M ac are cultiv-
able wasteland (80%) and fallow (20%). Unfortunately, little of this land
has plentiful rainfall or accessible water supplies' suitable for increasing
the rice cultivated area. The total cropped area is about 23 M ac (1974), of
which rice is 55%, oilseeds 19%, pulses 7%, other cereals 5%, fiber crops



as jute) 2%, and other crops 12%. On the net cultivated land area of 20 M ac,
the cropping intensity is about 115%. Only 12% of the cultivated area is
irrigated, mainly by run-of-the-river diversion systems, and of this, only
14% is double cropped.
1.05      The rice surplus producing areas comprise about 9.0 M ac in Lower
Burma, mainly in the Irrawaddy River delta, where the soils are fertile and
the rainfall abundant. Upper Burma and the Hill regions with less than 4 M
ac are rice deficit areas, even though over 300,000 ac of new rice land have
been developed there since World War II. Since the war, however, about 1 M
ac in the surplus producing areas were abandoned and lost to flooding and
salt water intrusion. These areas can be easily rehabilitated, and with a
relatively low level of investment there production would increase rapidly.
Government Agricultural Development Policy and IDA Lending Strategy
1.06      The Government ofE Burma (GOB) has recently reordered its development
priorities, placing greater emphasis on agriculture. Its main objective in
the sector is to increase the production of export crops. First, in 1973, and
again in 1974, GOB significantly increased its procurement prices for rice and
jute; second, in 1975/76, GOB increased agriculture's share of public invest-
ment to 18.6%, and has allocated about 27% to agriculture in the Third Four
Year Plan; and third, in 1977, it began to intensify agricultural extension
services in parts of Lower Burma. These policy changes appear to be paying
off: since 1975, the value of agricultural output has grown at about 3.0%
per year and export earnings have increased at about 10% per year.
1.07      IDA generally supports the Government's development priorities and,
partly through an agricultural sector mission to Burma in 1977 (Report No.
1700-BA, August 24, 1977 in Green Cover), has identified the following to be
of particular importance for the rapid development of the agricultural sector:
(a)  further improvment of financial incentives for farmers;
(b) improvement of agricultural extension and input supply
services;
(c) creation of an effective and development-oriented rural
credit system;
(d) acceleration of programs to reclaim abandoned and waste
paddyland in Lower Burma;
(e)  improvment of infrastructure for storage, processing and
marketing of produce; and
(f)  development of groundwater resources in Middle Burma and
expansion of gravity irrigation systems in Upper Burma.
The proposed project would encompass the objectives listed in items (a) through
(d). The objectives (e) and (f) will be addressed through the proposed paddy
storage and handling project, whose preparation is being assisted by IDA Credit
No. 642-BA, and the proposed groundwater exploration project, whose preparation
is being financed under the UNDP Umbrella project.



- 3 -
1.08      This would be the sixth IDA-financed agricultural project in Burma
and the second in a proposed series of paddyland development projects in
Lower Burma. Credit No. 642-BA, signed on June 21, 1976, assists in financing
the first in this series. IDA credits in the agriculture sector are:
Cr. No. 745-BA (US$5.5 M; November 14, 1977) Seeds Development Project
Cr. No. 642-BA (US$30 M; June 21, 1976) Lower Burma Paddyland
Development Project
Cr. No. 597-BA (US$7.5 M; December 30, 1975) Livestock Project
Cr. No. 493-BA (US$24.0 M; July 10, 1974) Forestry Project
Cr. No. 483-BA (US$17.0 M; June 21, 1974) Irrigation I Project
Project Formulation
1.09      The program of paddyland development projects evolved from
recommendations made by a Bank economic mission in 1974 (Report No 565a-BA,
January 15, 1975) following the GOB request for IDA assistance to identify
and prepare quick yielding projects in rice surplus producing areas. In
January/February 1975, an IDA identification mission visited Burma and re-
commended a series of projects for rehabilitation of part of the estimated
1.0 M ac of abandoned and waste paddyland in existence at that time. This,
the second project in the series, was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
1.10      Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project (Paddyland I Project)
(Credit No. 642-BA) will protect 185,000 ac of existing and abandoned farm
land in the Irrawaddy Delta from flooding and salt water inundation; reclaim
about 65,000 ac of the protected land; increase the area of dry season lift-
irrigation from 6,000 ac to 22,000 ac; and improve farm production technology
and practices. The project, costing an estimated US$54 M, includes construc-
tion of minor flood embankments, drains, and sluices; land clearing; provision
of equipment for construction, maintenance, and land clearing; provision of
small irrigation pumps and farm machinery; and construction of fertilizer-
godowns and farm machinery workshops. It also includes strengthening of agri-
cultural extension services throughout the five townships encompassing 862,500
ac in which the project areas lie. In addition, it includes provision of
consulting services for hydrological investigations in the delta and for pre-
paration of a feasibility report for a paddy storage and handling project.
1.11      Credit No. 642-BA became effective on August 20, 1976, and in Jan-
uary 1977 bids for the supply of key construction equipment for the project
were opened. However, awards of contracts for the supply of this equipment
were made only in September 1977, and only a small part of the equipment was
delivered in time for the first construction season (November 1977 to May
1978). In the meantime, the Irrigation Department (ID) completed construction
surveys and final designs and prepared a revised project completion schedule
accounting for the initial delays and changes in the equipment list. Despite
the slow start, in the first construction season ID completed a targeted
construction program using existing equipment which was released from other
work recently completed. At this stage, it is apparent that the ID will be
able to complete project construction on time, provided no major delays occur
subsequently in the revised timetable for supply of equipment. All ID staff



- 4 -
are now appointed. Early in 1977, the Agriculture Corporation (AC) launched
the intensive agricultural extension program for five project townships, and
by December it had fully staffed the extension program with village and
township level officers assigned full time to extension activities. These
officers are carrying out a program of periodic and regularly scheduled visits
to the farm areas (Training and Visits program) and have been well received by
farmers. Until new river transport is procured, the AC is hiring local motor
boats for the officers' transportation. In September, consultants (Sir
William Halcrow and Associates) began work on the hydrologic investigations
and in December, Sanyu Inc. began work on the paddy storage and handling
studies. At present, the GOB Cabinet Economic Sub-Committee is reviewing the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests' proposal to increase tractor hire charges
to cover actual operation, maintenance, and depreciation costs. Overall
disbursements, which had lagged behind the appraisal estimates, totaled about
US$5.1 million on May 31, 1978. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests thus
has made a strong effort to make up for the initial difficulties and has
demonstrated its willingness and capacity to complete the project within the
scheduled implementation period.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The project area is located in Lower Burma to the south and, for the
most part, west of Rangoon, in the vicinity of the Paddyland I Project areas
(Map No. 13384). It comprises four discontiguous islands, Thongwa, Daunggyi,
Labutta, and Bawchaung, and the areas of seven townships, the basic adminis-
trative units in which they lie, in the deltas of the Irrawaddy and Pegu
rivers. The four islands encompass a gross area of 216,000 ac, of which
about 175,000 ac of arable Land would be developed (Table 2.1). Daunggyi
and Labutta islands lie within the townships of Bogale and Labutta, the re-
maining areas of which are covered under the Paddyland I Project. Thongwa
and Bawchaung islands lie in parts of three other townships, namely Maubin,
Kyaiklat, and Syriam. The balance of the administrative areas of these
townships and of the two adjacent townships, Kayan and Kyauktan, would be
covered by the project agricultural extension program.



Table 2.1: PROJECT AREAS
(1,000 ac)
Arable Land Area
Out of
which
Gross  Culti-  Aban-                        to be
Township    Area   vated   doned   Waste    Total  Protected
Middle Delta
Thongwa         Maubin and    71      50       8         8       66        59
Kyaiklat
Lower Delta
Daunggyi        Bogale         62      29     22         4       55        51
Labutta         Labutta        41      20      7         5       32        30
Bawchaung       Syriam         42     32       5         0       37        35
Subtotal                145      81     34         9       124       116
Total Project Area      216    131      42        17       190    1175
Climate
2.02      Lower Burma has a tropical monsoon climate with three distinct
seasons: a rainy season (mid-May to mid-October), a dry cool season (mid-
October to mid-February), and a hot humid season (mid-February to mid-May).
Rainfall averages about 100 inches per annum, of which about 80% falls in
five months, mid-May to mid-October. Mean monthly temperatures range only
from 750F in December/January to 86 0F in April.  Minimum temperatures may
occasionally drop to 60 0F in December/January (Annex 1, T-1).
Topography and Soils
2.03      Topography.  Deposits from recurrent river flooding have made the
islands slightly saucer shaped, higher at the edge and sloping toward the
center. Land elevations range from 2 to 5 ft above mean sea level, so that
internal drainage is much affected by the surrounding river flood levels in
the monsoon season and by river tidal levels in the dry season. Around
Thongwa Island, located about 30 mi from the coastline (in the Middle Delta),
the tidal range is small. The water remains fresh year around and the island,
which is subject to monsoon flooding and poor drainage, is not subject to
saline inundation.
2.04      Around the other three islands which are located close to the coast-
line (in the Lower Delta), the tidal range is large (10 to 15 ft) and most of
the creeks are intermittently saline from seawater intrusion. The large tidal



- 6 -
range facilitates internal drainage, but in large parts of the areas, soil
fertility and crop yields are low from recurrent saline inundation. Dry
season irrigation has not been developed. In these islands, the abandonment
of farms and consequent neglect of old embankments and drains have caused
once productive paddyland to give way to tall grasses and mangrove trees.
2.05      Soils.  The project area has three main soil types:  meadow gley,
meadow swampy, and saline gley, based on soil classification and land capa-
bility surveys conducted by the Land Use Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests. Highly fertile meadow gley soils are at higher elevations, cov-
ering most land presently under cultivation in the Middle and Lower Deltas.
These comprise homogeneous clays down to 20 in depth, underlain by silty
soils down to 60 in, which are poorly drained and waterlogged during the rainy
season and hard surfaced and cracked during the dry season. Soluble salts,
mainly chlorides and some sulfates, are leached out sufficiently each year
during the rainy season so that paddy growth is not affected. Meadow swampy
soils overlain by a thick layer of decaying organic matter are at low eleva-
tions in the Middle Delta. These comprise lighter silty clays, with 2%-5%
humus content and high acidity (pH of 4.4-4.7), which are deeply flooded (up
to 5 ft) in the wet season and presently are under medium to tall grasses.
If proper drainage is provided, with decomposition of the organic matter,
improved soil oxidation, and lowered acidity these better structured soils
can be highly productive. Saline gley soils under mangrove forests and
grasses are at low elevations and are regularly flooded by tidal salt water
in the Lower Delta. These comprise heavy clays underlain by loamy clays with
some acidity (pH 5.6 to 6.3). Previous coastal reclamation experience has
shown development of no acid sulphate soil problems after protection from
periodic flood inundation and satisfactory base exchange achieved (sodium
to calcium) within two to three years. In all areas, nitrogen and phosphate
nutrients are deficient; potassium nutrient availability varies.
Farm Size, Land Tenure, Population and Present Farm Income Levels
2.06      Farm Size.  About 14,400 farm families, consisting on the average
of 5 to 6 persons each, farm the 131,000 ac presently under cultivation. Due
to differences between the Middle and Lower Deltas in soil fertility, cropping
conditions, and wage labor supplies (paras 2.03 to 2.05), the average farm
sizes are 6.5 ac on Thongwa Island compared to 12 ac on the Lower Delta islands.
The median size is nearly the same as the average in each case (Table 2.2).



Table 2.2 FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Thongwa Island                     Lower Delta Islands
Numbers           Area                 Numbers          Area
Farm Size      of Farms        of Farms               of Farms       of Farms
(ac)           (%)             (%)                    (%)            (%)
0-2            17               3                      3              0
2-5            30              14                      8              2
5-8            20              17                      8              3
8-10           11              15                      7              5
10-12            9              18                     21             26
Over 12         13              33                     54             64
100             100                    100            100
Average Size      6.5 ac                                12 ac
Median Size:      5 ac                                  13 ac
2.07      Land Tenure.  Beginning in 1953 in parts of Lower Burma, private
land ownership, land leasing, and absentee operation of any type have not been
permitted, except in connection with tree crop plantations. Under the land
reform laws, the large pre-independence holdings which encompassed most of
the paddyland were largely redistributed to former tenants, and Village Land
Committees (VLCs) now allot the cultivation rights and organize the land reve-
nue collection. The VLCs customarily assign cultivation rights of deceased
within the family, but if land is left idle or abandoned, or if all family
members of the deceased already have viable farm operations, the VLCs may
allot the cultivation rights to others. The VLCs maintain lists of applicants
and assign priorities, first to farmers currently with insufficient land, then
to those landless who have bullocks or farm implements and then to others.
Land allotments are made on the basis of one tatontum per family. One tanton-
tum is a standard farm size established in each area by the VLC according to
the number of applicants and the area workable by one bullock-pair. The size
varies from place to place according to the nature of the soils and the types
of crops grown. Currently, on Thongwa Island it is 10 ac and on the Lower
Delta islands 12.5 ac.
2.08      Population.  About 26,700 families in total live in the project
area. These include the families of farm operators (54% - para. 2.06), land-
less farm workers (26%), and non-farmers (20%) such as fishermen, boatmen, and
traders. The project population and labor force estimates are given in Table
2.3.
Table 2.3 POPULATION AND LABOR FORCE
Population                      150,000
Labor Force                      70,000
Agricultural Labor Force         55,000



-8-
2.09      Present Farm Income Levels.  At present, most project farm incomes,
including the imputed value of produce consumed on the farm, are below the low
national average (US$130 per capita) and about one quarter fall in the target
group with incomes below the relative poverty level (US$40 per capita). Cash
from market sales of surplus paddy (or rice), jute, minor crops and livestock
products and from fishing and other sources constitutes a substantial portion
of total income for most farm households. Surplus paddy (primarily lower
grades) is marketed in part to GOB and in part to wholesalers who trade
illicitly outside Burma.
Agricultural Practices
2.10      Wet season rainfed paddy is the single major crop grown throughout
the project area. On Thongwa Island, a pre-monsoon jute crop with supple-
mentary pump irrigation has gained significance, but is still small in acreage.
Some rainfed pulses and groundnuts are grown after rice harvest, as well as
some fruits and vegetables on high lands close to the villages. Overall
cropping intensities are about 108% on Thongwa Island and 100% on the Lower
Delta islands. Flooding on all the islands and salt water inundation in the
Lower Delta islands cause low yields which average 1,200 to 1,300 lb paddy
per ac. Present crop production in the project area is given in Table 2.4.
Manual labor utilizing non-mechanized means, i.e. animals, accomplishes the
field work on most farms. On Thongwa Island, some farmers are also using
low-lift pumps for jute irrigation and a few farmers hire machinery from the
Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD) or private owners to assist land
preparation. Women generally play an important role among the farming com-
munity, as they participate in farm planning, transplanting, harvesting, and
in farmers' meetings. Moreover, the Agriculture Corporation (AC) employs a
number of women as extension officers.
Table 2.4 PRESENT CROP PRODUCTION
Thongwa              Lower Delta            Project Total
(tons)                (tons)                  (tons)
Paddy      27,000                47,000                   74,000
Jute           700                    0                      700
Groundnuts    300                     0                      300
Pulses        200                     0                      200
2.11      Paddy is entirely broadcast in the Lower Delta islands and broadcast
about 25% and transplanted 75% on Thongwa Island. Farmers grow local (indica)
varieties almost entirely. High Yielding Varieties (HYVs), which require con-
trolled water conditions, presently are grown on about 6,000 ac (5%) in the
project areas. Early dry season paddy (Hnanga), transplanted in September
where flood depths permit after the jute harvest, is grown on Thongwa Island
on about 5,000 ac. Supplementary irrigation by means of manual lift and
pumps is applied between October and February as water levels recede. No
dry season irrigated HYV is; grown in the areas. HYV and all local varieties
are acceptable for home consumption although households prefer certain local
varieties such as Medon for- eating.



2.12      Jute, which has recently become an export crop in Burma is grown
mainly along the river banks of Thongwa Island. It is sown generally in March
before the monsoon rains begin and harvested in July/August during flood time,
and it is followed, where flood depths permit, by Hnanga paddy. Supplementary
irrigation is applied for jute land preparation and crop consumption before
the monsoon rains begin in May.
2.13      Production Constraints.  Poor drainage in the low lying centers
of the islands during the heavy rains limits the area suitable for cultivation
of HYV or the more productive local varieties. On Thongwa Island, unpredict-
able river flooding frequently washes away paddy seedlings or submerges the
plant before maturity. Reseeding is widespread, but even then not a sure
remedy. The necessity for transplanting tall, over-aged seedlings results in
low yields. In the Lower Delta, damage is also often caused by daily tidal
inundation by sea water. While the monsoon rains flush out salt from drain-
able land at low tide, saline water accumulates in the central depressions,
and in many areas plants yellow prematurely when the rain tapers off. In the
dry season, because of soil salinity and lack of moisture, farmers leave the
land fallow. Farm use of fertilizers is low and confined primarily to HYV and
nurseries. Use of pesticides is insignificant, except at times of severe pest
outbreak. Improvements in water control and the salinity problem will increase
the area suitable for HYV and enable better yield response to fertilizers.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.14      The AC is active in the project areas in extension, farm inputs,
distribution and research. The AMD has a station in Maubin township which is
an outlet for farm machinery sales and which provides, presently at subsidized
rates, custom tractor operations and a repair and maintenance service for
farmer owned-machinery on Thongwa Island. Presently it has no such facilities
in the Lower Delta islands. Research support to extension services is weak;
seasonal credit limited, and institutional medium- and long-term credit is
not yet available.
2.15      Extension Services.  On Thongwa Island, Village Extension Workers
(VEWs) are assigned on the average of one for about 900 farms or about 5,000
ac of farm land. In the Lower Delta, they are assigned for the same number of
families or about 10,000 ac. Extension services are not supported by subject
matter specialists at the village or township levels. The VEWs carry multiple
responsibilities including inputs distribution and provision of seasonal cash
advances, revenue assessments, yield assessments for compulsory paddy procure-
ment quotas, and extension services. They travel by foot and manually paddled
boat. Consequently, they have little time for disseminating technical advice
and are in a poor position to gain farmers' confidence.
2.16      Inputs and Farm Machinery Distribution.  The AC generally allocates
fertilizers only for applications on HYV paddy, jute, and a few other commer-
cial crops. Supplies, presently sold at subsidized prices, are often unable
to meet demand. For the Paddyland I project area, under Credit No. 642-BA,
however, GOB agreed to lift crop related restrictions on fertilizer distri-
bution and to ensure adequate supplies. The AC Township Pest Control Squads



- 10 -
spray for farmers, free of charge, but generally only during serious pest out-
breaks. They do not regularly distribute pesticides and most farmers do not
own sprayers. Two AC seed farms are located in the Irrawaddy Division, one
(180 ac) in Pyapon township, and the other (100 ac) in Maubin township. A
third AC seed farm near the project area is located in Syriam township, Rangoon
Divison. The AC extension staff presently procure and distribute seeds which
are grown from AC seed farm stock by selected farmers. The AMD sells low-lift
pumps and power tillers to farmers for cash at prices which cover the full
cost of manufacturing and distribution. The demand is great and many pumps
and tillers are traded privately at prices more than twice the GOB price.
2.17      Research.  The AC Research Division conducts applied research and
runs training programs for extension officers at Central Experimental Stations
(Central Farms) located in almost all states and divisions in Burma. The
Central Farms serving the project area are located at Myaungmya in the Middle
Delta, and at Hmawbi, 35 mi north of Rangoon. The Agricultural Research
Institute (ARI) at Yezin, 200 mi north of Rangoon, conducts basic research.
The ARI currently is assisted by UNDP in research on paddy, pulses, cotton
and soil and in training. The Seeds Development Project (Credit No. 745-BA)
is strengthening the research capability of these farms, particularly at Yezin.
2.18      Credit.  Seasonal credit to farmers is provided through advance
purchase systems (APS). Under these systems, the respective procurement agency
makes advance payments against crops that it will later purchase. For paddy,
the current rate is K 70 per ac which is paid by the Agriculture and Farm
Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC); for jute, K 75 per ac by the Industries
Corporation; and for some minor crops by Cooperatives. These amounts are
about 20% to 30% of present seasonal cash requirements for cultivation, and
consequently the balance has to come from savings or private arrangements.
At present, medium and long-term credit is available to farmers only through
private channels, such as family relatives, large farmers, and sometimes
traders. In late 1975, GOB formed the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) from
the former Agricultural Finance Division of the Union of Burma Bank to reac-
tivate provision of seasonal and medium- and long-term credit to farmers
through the existing Township Banks (TBs) and Village Banks (VBs) as was the
case prior to 1973/74. At present, the VBs have no paid staff. Current TB
and VB activity involves collections of debts on the prior loans and in
deficit areas outside Lower Burma provision of some seasonal credit.
Infrastructure
2.19      Government owned storage godowns, buying depots and rice mills,
and private mills, are localed at the numerous small towns along the banks
of the interconnected system of delta river channels. Large Government owned
and operated river craft provide regular service between Rangoon and all
important towns, while smal:L river craft, mostly privately owned, operate
local services between the towns and villages. Every family has a small,
usually unpowered, boat. Transport of farm produce is generally done by
shoulder carrying, or by oxcart during the dry season, to the nearest water-
ways for loading onto boats, Farm inputs are similarly handled.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
Main Features
3.01      The proposed project would replicate the Paddyland I Project on the
four islands: Thongwa, Daunggyi, Labutta, and Bawchaung. Of the 175,000 ac
of additional farm land to be developed, 125,000 ac is already under cultiva-
tion and 50,000 ac is abandoned and wasteland. The objectives are to: (a)
protect farm land from flooding and salt water inundation; (b) reclaim aban-
doned farm land; (c) increase the area under dry season lift irrigation; (d)
improve farm production technology and practices; and (e) activate a program
for providing medium- and long-term credit for farmers. The project, to be
implemented over a seven year period by the GOB agencies shown below, would
comprise:
The Irrigation Department (ID)
(a) Rehabilitation and construction of minor earth embankments
(6.5 M cu yd), drainage channels (9.3 M cu yd), channel re-
gulator structures, and channel crossings for annual flood
protection of 175,000 ac;
(b) Improvement and expansion of the ID central workshop in Rangoon,
and construction in the project areas of four building com-
plexes for operation and maintenance (O&M) of project works;
(c) Provision of equipment, spare parts, and materials for
construction and O&M of works and for land clearing; and
equipment and spares for the ID central workshop and
engineering offices;
The Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD)
(d) Clearing and Reclamation of part of the about 50,000 ac
of abandoned and waste land within the protected areas;
and procurement of land clearing equipment;
(e) Procurement of about 1,000 small irrigation pumps, 1,050
power tillers, and spare parts for sale to farmers;
(f) Construction of and provision of equipment for three
service stations for repairing project farm machinery;
The Agriculture Corporation (AC)
(g) Strengthening of extension services in five townships
additional to the five already included in the Paddyland I
Project;



- 12 -
(h)  Construction of six godowns for fertilizer storage and six
training centers and provision of transport and equipment
for extension and research activities;
The Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB)
(i)  Provision of about 39 man-months of expatriate consulting
services and transport and office equipment for MAB to
assist in developing a medium- and long-term credit program
for farmers throughout Burma, and to assist in preparing a
credit project suitable for external financing;
The Settlement and Land Records Department (SLRD)
(j) Provision of survey and office equipment for the marking
out of plots for land allocation by the Township Counciks.
Project Works
3.02      Embankments.  Compacted earth embankments would be constructed and
existing embankments rebuilt to provide 3 ft freeboard over river flood levels
based on a one-in-ten years frequency for the middle delta polder and the
Highest High Water Level (HHWL) for the lower delta polders. The embankments
would protect only the low agricultural land. The villages are on high ground
where no risk to the population would result from embankment collapse. Embank-
ment crest heights would range from 3 to 8 ft, averaging about 6 ft. All
embankments would have 10 ft wide crests and 2.5 to 1 side slopes. Earth fill
would be excavated at a minimum of 40 ft from the interior embanknients toe.
The four embankments to be built are:
Embankments
(mi)    (M cu yd)
1.  Thongwa               75         1.1
2.  Daunggyi             105         2.9
3.  Bawchaung             22         0.7
4.  Labutta               53         1.8
255        6.5
3.03      Drainage Channels.  Existing interior channels would be deepened,
enlarged or realigned and, where necessary, new drainage channels excavated
so as to lower interior water levels below field levels within 72 hours follow-
ing a three day rainstorm of six inches (50% probability). This corresponds
to a channel design capacity based on about 53 cfs per sq mi of drainage area.
Channel depths and dimensions would vary depending on the relative river tidal
levels and land elevations as well as on drainage catchment areas. Available
data indicates that after project construction is completed, the accumulation
of rainfall runoff in any of the polders would not be so great as to prevent



- 13 -
rice cultivation anywhere except on about 9,000 ac of bottom-land (excluded
from the area to be cleared and reclaimed). The total drainage excavations
for the project are estimated as below:
Excavation              Dredging             Total
(mi)    (M cu yd)    (mi)  (M cu yd)    (mi)   (M cu yd)
Thongwa           76         3.1            8        0.3      84       3.4
Daunggyi          49         2.1            -         -       49       2.1
Bawchaung         51         1.9           15        0.6      66       2.5
Labutta           19         1.3            2        0        21        1.3
195        8.4            25       0.9    220         9.3
3.04      Regulator Structures would be provided where the embankments inter-
sect key channels. Culverts of one or more 4 ft diameter concrete pipes
fitted with steel gates would be provided at small channels. In fresh water
zones, slide gates would be provided to permit impounding and regulation for
dry season small pump irrigation. Reinforced concrete regulator structures
with varying numbers of standard-sized gated openings would be provided across
large channels. Each gate opening would be fitted with a steel slide gate on
the interior side.  Flap gates would be provided on the river side of culverts
and regulators in perennially saline areas where no fresh water inflow is
possible. The structures would include concrete and masonry wing walls,
stonepitched aprons, and where necessary, upstream and downstream sheetpiling.
In addition, on Thongwa Island, small structures of the same type of construc-
tion, fitted with slide gates, would be provided at appropriate points on the
interior channels to regulate the water levels for dry season irrigation
pumping.
Regulator Structures          Pipe Culverts
No                         No
Thongwa                   7                          22
Daunggyi                  5                          22
Bawchaung                 3                           6
Labutta                   6                           7
21                          57
3.05      Channel Crossings. Five crossings passable by bullock carts and
47 foot bridges would be provided over drainage channels. Cart crossings
would consist of timber bridges high enough to permit channel boat traffic.
Foot path crossings would consist of small pipe culverts at some drainage
channels and high bridges where boat traffic would pass.
3.06      Paddyland Reclamation.  The 50,000 ac to be cleared presently are
under grasses (55%), mangrove forests (40%), and stiff bamboo-type plants
(5%). Clearing of grassland would be by burning, followed by raking and
plowing with bullocks or with tractors. Mangrove trees in most places would
be cut by hand and sold for firewood but in a few areas the trees would have
to be bulldozed. The bamboo-type plants (Kya and Khaya) would be cut by hand



- 14 -
and burned and the land plowed. In depressed areas, clearing could not begin
until the areas are protected and partially drained. Improved farming prac-
tices could begin about two years after clearing. Families who would farm
the lands to be cleared and reclaimed already live in the vicinity in villages
which would not be disturbed. Thus, resettlement or construction of new
infrastructure would not be necessary.
Abandoned and       Less Land Which        Net Paddyland Clearing
Waste Land        Cannot be Drained            and Reclamation
(1,000 ac)          (1,000 ac)                  (1,000 ac)
Thongwa            16                    5                         11
Daunggyi           26                    3                         23
Bawchaung           5                    0                          5
Labutta            12                    1                          11
59                   9                          50
3.07       ID Workshops and Equipment.  The existing ID central workshop
facilities in Rangoon, including a repair shop, open shed, and office, would
be upgraded and the existing mechanical workshop would be enlarged and equipped.
The construction and extension of workshop buildings would be of hardwood
frame and masonry, a type cf construction suited to Burmese conditions and
resources. In the project area, O&M buildings would be provided at four
locations and would include at each location, staff quarters, offices, and
stores for construction and maintenance forces.
3.08      Equipment.  The equipment to be provided (Annex 2) would include:
(a) Heavy equipment and spare parts for ID earthwork construction
(embankments, excavation and dredging), including about 26
backhoes (1.5 cu yd), 20 scrapers (11 cu yd), 12 crawler
tractors (180 hp), 3 crawler tractors (300 hp), 6 dumpers
(15 ton), 2 dozers, 2 graders, and fuel storage tank;
(b) Field workshop equipment and supplies for ID maintenance of
heavy machinery; and transport and equipment for O&M of the
flood control and drainage works;
(c) Machinery repair and maintenance equipment for the ID central
workshop; and office equipment and survey instruments for the
ID engineering offices in Rangoon;
(d) Land clearing equipment for AMD, including about 20 crawler
tractors and tractor implements; and equipment for three
field stations for servicing the machinery;
(e) Farm machinery and spare parts (para 3.09), equipment for three
farm machinery service stations, and transport for the AMD;
(f) Transport, audio-visual, and other equipment for the AC exten-
sion services; survey instruments and office equipment for the
SLRD; and office equipment and transport for MAB.



- 15 -
3.09      Farm Machinery and Agricultural Supporting Facilities.  The
project would expand pump irrigation on Thongwa Island from about 1,500 ac
to about 12,000 ac. To fill the irrigation requirements (para 3.15), based
on pump operation-for eight hours per day, the project would provide 1,000
units of about the same size and capacity (0.5 to 1.0 cusec low lift pump with
5 hp diesel engine) as presently in use, and spare parts (Annex 1, T-2). The
80 pumps presently operated there, by the time project works are completed,
would be more or less worn out and unserviceable and would be replaced. The
project would also provide 1,050 power tillers (7 to 8 hp), each with quarter
ton trailer and spare parts, for new farms in the reclaimed land. About half
of the new farmers are expected to purchase tillers. Of the other farmers,
some will have bullocks and the others would obtain new ones.
3.10      The AMD would be responsible for constructing and equiping three
new maintenance workshops in Labutta, Bogale and Syriam, bringing to nine
the number of stations for minor repair and maintenance of pumps and tillers
in the project area (Map No. 13384 R). The AC would be responsible for
constructing six new godowns of 1,200 ton capacity each for storage of fer-
tilizers and pesticides. Along with the eight Paddyland I Project area
godowns, the total of 14 would be able to handle about 17,000 tons, the
estimated peak requirement for half the season at full development for all
eight townships involved. This is considered adequate. The project also
would provide survey equipment for the SLRD for demarcation of plots on
reclaimed land.
3.11      Agricultural Extension.  The Training and Visits (T&V) program of
extension which has already started with the Paddyland I Project over the
entire area of five townships (Wakema, Pyapon, Labutta, Ngapudaw and Bogale)
would be introduced throughout five additional townships under this project:
Maubin, Kyaiklat, Syriam, Kayan, and Kyauktan. The program involves provi-
sion of additional staff, use of "contact" farmers, adoption of regularly
scheduled farm visits and periodic training, and intensification of field
activities. The AC would assign extension staff to this program on a full-
time basis to extension activities entirely separated from work related to
distribution of inputs or other non-extension activities. All SMSs would be
trained annually at the Central Research station at Myaungmya or at Hmawbi and
in special cases at the ARI at Yezin. Training of Village Extension Managers
(VEMs) once every two weeks by SMSs would incorporate a "concentration of
efforts" approach, each session focusing on a few topics (impact points)
relevant to activities of farmers in the field and to the crop season. The
AC would be responsible for constructing six additional training centers,
and would procure transport and equipment for extension and research activi-
ties, and provide incremental staff and fellowships for short-term training
in neighboring countries for about ten extension officers, including the
Paddyland I and II Project Extension Managers, five township level officers,
and three SMSs.
3.12      MAB Staff Development Assistance and Project Preparation.  Under
Credit No. 642-BA, GOB agreed to provide medium- and long-term credit to
farmers in the Paddyland I Project area for purchasing bullocks, farm machin-
ery, spare parts and implements. An agreement was reached with GOB that it



- 16 -
would provide medium- and long-term credit to farmers in the Paddyland II
Project areas for the same purposes, and that it would furnish to IDA infor-
mation on: (i) the lending terms and conditions, (ii) the loan application
procedures, (iii) the appraisal criteria, and (iv) the supervision and col-
lection guidleines of the credit to be provided. The project would include
provision of about US$0.4 M for about 39 man-months of expatriate consulting
services (US$8,500 per man-month) and office equipment and vehicles.
Water Supply, Quality and Demand
3.13      Water Supply and Quality.  Rainfall and water lifted from rivers
and streams are the main sources of crop water supply for the middle and
lower delta islands. The dry season low flow in the Irrawaddy (at Prome)
is about 62,000 cusecs, which is more than adequate for all pump irrigation
withdrawals in the area. Access to it, however, is difficult in some loca-
tions. Water elevations around project islands are governed by fluctuating
tidal levels which affect river levels and, therefore, pump capability as far
inland as 80 mi from the coast. Around Thongwa Island where the surrounding
river water is fresh throughout the dry season, carefully scheduled operation
of sluice gates would regulate impounded water levels and also permit daily
replenishment at high tides, and thus increase the areas accessible to the
low-lift pumps.
3.14      In the Lower Delta, saline sea water intrusion into the delta
generally is found in concentrations which gradually decrease with distance
away from the coast. The limit of river water unsuited for irrigation moves
inland, part of the time as far as the northern banks of the lower delta
islands, as river levels recede during the dry season. The saline limit
also fluctuates daily with the tides. In some places in the lower delta,
the river channels part of the time carry fresh water which farmers use
for land preparation and supplementary irrigation. The other part of the
time, they block the channel inlets to prevent saline water entering. Pro-
vision of sluices under the project would facilitate such channel regulation
and increase interior storage of late monsoon rain and flood water for sup-
plementary irrigation. Year-round studies of water quality in the Lower
Delta are being carried out as part of the Paddyland I Project hydrological
investigations.
3.15      Water Demand.  The 12,000 ac of pump irrigation on Thongwa Island
would have a projected cropping pattern as follows:
HYV                              7,000 ac
Jute followed by Hnanga          5,000 ac
Crop water requirements based on this pattern have been determined using the
Modified Blaney Criddle Formula. Project requirements are estimated after
accounting for the field preparation and field losses separately and the
conveyance losses at 25%. Maximum water demand would be an estimated 14,400
ac-ft in January, or about 700 cusecs, based on the present average duty of
8 hr pumping per day (Annex 1, T-3). Withdrawals of this magnitude would be
insignificant in relation to the magnitude of flow in the channels surrounding
the islands.



- 17 -
Engineering j s-
3.16      ID civil wcrks 'signs and estimates for this project are based on
1 inch to 1 mi maps, aerial photographs from November 1972 (scale 1:20,000)
and complete surveys of the Thongwa Island. For the Lower Delta islands,
flood and topographic conditions are assumed to be fairly closely represented
by the conditions of the Letpanbin Island, which was surveyed in 1976 for the
Paddyland I Project, based on comparisons of ground levels with recent flood
levels. ID would conduct further surveys and prepare final and detailed de-
signs for the works in each polder. The estimates prepared by ID reflect
sound engineering. The ID has had extensive experience in the planning,
design and construction of these kinds of work for many decades. The hydro-
logical data available include about 32 years of daily river level record at
some locations, hourly records for the 1975 flood period at selected points
in the project area vicinity, and long-term tidal records at Elephant Point.
The ID is recording river stage records year round which would be used in the
final designs and preparation of operating manuals. Some of the additional
hydrologic gauging stations which will be established as part of the hydro-
logical investigations now underway under the Paddyland I Project would be
used for this purpose.
Environmental Effects
3.17      The project works would have no adverse effect with respect to
public health, water quality, fisheries or transportation. As the result
of an ongoing Government control program, malaria is largely under control
in Lower Burma. Under the project, land reclamation would reduce the areas
especially suited to malarial propagation. Schistosomiasis does not exist
in Burma. Application of crop pesticides would be monitored under the agri-
cultural extension program. The locations of embankments and creek closures
would be carefully planned so as not to close off main fishing grounds or
interfere with main transport routes.
Implementation Schedule
3.18      Project implementation would extend over seven years (July 1978 to
June 1985). The procurement of major construction equipment, carrying out the
survey work, and preparing final designs for the initial construction season
would occupy the initial 18 month period. Construction would start in January
1980 and be completed by the end of April 1985, overlapping the Paddyland I
construction period for three years (1980 through 1982). Each year, major
construction activity would be confined to the 4 to 5 month dry period between
December and May. The AMD would complete the land clearing in the same year
that the ID completes the flood protection and drainage works on each island,
except that in the year following it would clear those bottom lands requiring
drainage ahead of clearing. The AC extension activities would be underway in
July 1978 and the T&V program would be fully mobilized in all ten townships
by April 1, 1979. MAB would engage the consultants by April 1, 1979, for a
period of about 18 months. The project implementation schedule is given in
Annex 1, C-1.



- 18 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01       Total project cost is estimated at US$56.0 M equivalent (K 414.4 M
equivalent) including taxes and duties, of which US$27.8 M or 50% is foreign
exchange (Table 4.1). The 'local costs, estimated at US$28.2 M equivalent
(K 208.7 M), include about US$4.0 M equivalent (K 29.0 14  for duties and
taxes on equipment to be imported. The cost estimates for imported equipment,
vehicles, and foreign consu'Ltants and training are based on unit prices in
recent contract awards and on international prices. Costs of civil works,
including flood control and drainage facilities, land clearing, workshops and
buildings, are based on recent costs in Burma for similar works (Annex 1, T-4).
The costs of O&M of civil works, agricultural godowns, and training centers
and incremental extension staff during the seven year implementation period
are also included (Annex 1, T-5, T-6). Physical contingencies included in
the estimates amount to 5% of total basic project costs, including 15% for
civil works, 3% for equipment and 5% for other items. All costs are ad-
justed to March 1978 price levels. Contingencies included for subsequent
price escalation over the seven year period amount to 23% of the basic cost,
computed using the following annual rates:
Foreign Costs   Local Costs
1978/79                  7.0%            8.0%
1979/80                  6.5%            7.5%
1980/81 - 1984/85        6.0%            7.0%
Financing
4.02      The proposed IDA credit of US$34.5 M would finance US$22.2 M equiva-
lent of the foreign excharge costs and US$12.3 M equivalent of the local costs.
or about 66% of total project costs excluding taxes and duties. Irrigation
pumps, power tillers, other equipment and vehicles costing a total of about
US$6.2 M equivalent includi-g contingencies, of which USS5.6 M is foreign
exchange, would be reserved for procurement under local procedures and would
not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit (Annex
1, T-7). Accordingly, GOB would finance US$5.6 M equivalent (K 42.9 M) of the
foreign exchange costs and USS15.9 M equivalent (K 117.7 M) of the balance of
the local costs, for a total of US$21.5 M equivalent (K 15x.1 M), through
annual budgetary appropriations. GOB is discussing with the United Kingdom's
Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) the provision of grant financing for
the equipment for the ID workshops and offices (about US$0.8 M equivalent)
and the consulting services and office equipment for the MAB (about US$0.4 M
equivalent). In the event that GOB secures financing from ODM or other
sources for these components, or any parts thereof, by October 31, 1978,
the total amount of the IDA credit would be reduced accordingly.



- 19 -
Table 4.1: COST ESTIMATE
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Total
----(Kyat MillioWn)-   ----(US$ MillionT----
Civil Works
Embankments                8.2      0.7      8.9    1.1      0.1      1.2
Drainage Channels &
Creek Closures           11.8      1.5    13.3    1.6       0.2      1.8
Channel Structures &
Crossings                20.0    12.6    32.6    2.7        1.7      4.4
Farm Land Clearing         1.5       -       1.5    0.2       -       0.2
ID Workshops              11.1      1.5    12.6    1.5       0.2      1.7
Campsites, Field Work-
shops & O&M Buildings  16.3        2.2    18.5    2.2       0.3      2.5
AC Godowns, Training
Centers, and Service
Stations                  5.9      0.8      6.7   0Q.8 8    0.1    <0.9
74.8    19.3    94.1   10.1       '2.6    1          22
Equipment
Construction              20.1    91.7   111.8    2.7    12.4    15.1
Farm Land Clearing         2.9    12.6    15.5    0.4        1.7      2.1
Farm Machinery             8.1    33.3    41.4    1.1        4.5      5.6
Agric. Support
Services                  2.2      3.7      5.9    0.3      0.5      0.8
O&M of Civil Works         0.7      1.5      2.2    0.1      0.2      0.3
ID Central/Workshop
& Offices                 1.5      5.9      7.4    0.2      0.8      1.0
SLRD Equipment             0.0      1.5      1.5    0.0      0.2      0.2
35.5   150.2   185.7    4.8    20.3    25.1          45
Extension Service (In-
cremental) & Agr. Go-
down Operation During
Implementation             9.6       -       9.6    1         -       1.3        2
O&M of Civil Works During
Implementation             6.6       -       6.6    0.9       -       0.9        2
MAB Consultants &
Equipment                0.0      3.0     3.0    0.0       0.4                 1
AC Overseas Fellowships   -         0.7      0.7     -                           0
Engineering & Adm.        20.0       -      20.0    2.7       -                  5
Basic Project Cost   146.5   173.2   319.7   19.8    23.4    43.2            77
Physical Contingencies  14.8        5.9    20.7    2.0       0.8      2.8        5
Expected Price Conting. 47.4    26.6    74.0    6.4          3.6    10.0       18
Total Project Cost       208.7   205.7   414.4   28.2    27.8    56.0         100
Total Project Cost
(excl. taxes and
duties)           (179.1) (205.7) (384.8) (24.2)  (27.8)  (52.0)



- 20 -
Procurement
4.03      Civil Works (US$12.7 M). 1/  The works would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group
Procurement Guidelines because the civil works comprise a number of small,
very simple, scattered works: earthwork, land clearing, minor structures,
and small buildings and thus are unlikely to be of interest to foreign
contractors. Also, construction would be subject to seasonal weather
interruptions and would have! to be phased so as to minimize interruptions of
cultivation. No private contracting industry exists in Burma. The ID would
carry out the work by force account, for which staffing and institutional
capability are adequate. This has worked well for the Irrigation I Project
(Credit No. 483-BA) and the Paddyland I Project civil works are being carried
out this way.
4.04      Equipment, Vehicles and Spare Parts (US$15.3 M). 1/ Equipment,
vehicles, and spare parts, with an estimated foreign cost of about US$13.8 M
equivalent, would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group Pro-
curement Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price or the
prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manu-
facturers in the evaluation of bids. Equipment, spare parts, and materials
and groupings thereof estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$50,000,
which are either required urgently or are not suitable for international
tendering, may be purchased through normal GOB procurement procedures and on
the basis of comparing prices from no less than three independent suppliers.
Such purchases would be limited to a maximum of US$1.5 M, which would be less
than 10% of equipment costs..
Disbursements
4.05      Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, spare parts and construction materials;
(b)  100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally
manufactured equipment, spare parts and construction
materials procurecd under ICB;
(c)  70% of total expenditures for other equipment, spare
parts and construction materials procured locally with-
out ICB (off-the-shelf);
(d)  100% of expenditures for consultants' services and 100%
of foreign expenditures for overseas training; and
(e)  60% of civil works expenditures.
1/   The amounts shown are the basic costs, not including amounts for physical
and price contingencies, administration and engineering and taxes and
duties. The amount for equipment, vehicles, and spare parts (US$15.3 M)
excludes the basic foreign cost of the equipment reserved for procurement
under local procedures (US$5.0 M).



- 21 -
4.06      Disbursements for civil works which would be carried out by force
account would be made against statements of expenditure, the detailed docu-
mentation for which would be retained by the ID for review by Supervision
Missions. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
Any saving would be used for other related work to be agreed between GOB and
the Association within the project area. The schedules of estiblated expendi-
tures, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit, and estimated
semi-annual disbursement of the credit proceeds are given in Annex 1, T-8,
T-9, T-10.
Accounts and Audits
4.07      All Government agencies maintain accounts according to procedures
and forms laid down by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF). The
Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of
People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing Government agency accounts
and would be acceptable to IDA as an independent auditor for this project.
An agreement was reached with GOB that:
(a)  separate accounts for each project component would be
maintained by the respective implementing agencies, and
collated by the Project Implementation Committee (PIC);
(b)  these accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by
the Director General, Central Accounts Office acting on
behalf of the Council of the People's Inspectors of the
GOB; and
(c)  PIC would send to IDA copies of the summary of an unaudited
annual project account within four months of the end of the
fiscal year, to be followed by certified copies of the audited
account and auditor's report within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
5.01      Project Authority.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF)
(Annex 1, C-2) would be responsible for project implementation, except devel-
opment of the agricultural credit program under MAB, and for project operation
and maintenance (O&M) after completion. MAF currently is responsible for the
Irrigation I Project (Credit No. 483-BA), the Lower Burma Paddyland Develop-
ment I Project (Credit No. 642-BA), and the Seeds Development Project (Credit
No. 745-BA). The Division and Township Councils with jurisdiction over the
project area would be responsible for the allotment of the reclaimed land.
5.02      Implementing Agencies.  The ID, AC, AMD and SLRD under the MAF
and the MAB under the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) implement the
project (para. 3.01). The MAF would establish a new project Unit (PU II),



- 22 -
which would comprise the senior technical officers of the implementing
agencies assigned to the Paddyland II Project. The PU II would parallel
that already established for the Paddyland I Project. The senior ID officer
of the PU would be Project Director, and under his direction, the PU would
organize the technical planning and field execution by the various agencies.
Establishment of the PU II, appointment of the PU II Project Director, and
assignment of the five ID Executive Engineers and the AC PEM for Rangoon
Division to work under the PU II would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
5.03      Coordination of administrative matters between the agencies would
be provided through the Project Implementation Committee (PIC) which the MAE
established for the Paddyland I Project. The PIC is chaired by the MAF Deputy
Minister and comprises the heads of the implementing agencies as members.
Supporting agencies also are represented: the MAF Planning and Statistics
Department (PSD), the MAF Survey Department (SD), the Ministry of Planning
and Finance (MPF), the Cooperatives Department (CD) under the Ministry of
Cooperatives, and the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC)
under the Ministry of Trade.
5.04      The Township Councils, which are responsible for civil administra-
tion and land allotment in tlhe project areas, each would have a Township
Project Committee (TPC) to coordinate the land allotments, extension activi-
ties and construction. In Labutta and Bogale townships, the TPCs which were
established for the Paddyland I Project would also coordinate work for the
Paddyland II Project. In five townships (Maubin, Kyaiklat, Syriam, Kayan,
and Kyauktan), TPCs would be established. Each TPC would have the Township
level officers of the implementing agencies as members, an ID Executive
Engineer as chairman and the AC township level manager as member secretary.
After the completion of project construction, the AC Township Manager would
serve as the chairman and one other member of the committee as the secretary.
The TPCs would be established before construction and land reclamation begin
in the respective townships.
5.05      Supporting Services.  Project area farmers rely on GOB agencies for
various supporting services: distribution of seeds and farm inputs by AC and
implements by CD for sale to farmers; spare parts and services for repair and
maintenance of farm machinery by AMD; APS seasonal advances by AC and AFPTC;
and fuel and diesel oil to the implementing agencies for operating vehicles
and construction and O&M equipment and for sale to farmers for operating farm
machinery by the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC) under the Ministry of Industries.
An agreement was reached witlh GOB that the PIC by December 31, 1978, and by
December 31 of each year thereafter through 1994, would make estimates of and
report to the MAF and to IDA on satisfactory requirements for the following
fiscal year (April 1 to March 31) for new seed, chemical farm inputs, farm
implements, farm machinery and spare parts, and fuel and diesel oil in the ten
townships of the Paddyland I and II projects; and that GOB would maintain
arrangements for timely distribution of these supplies and services to all
parts of the ten townships.



- 23 -
Project Implementation
5.06      Irrigation Department.  The ID would organize four Divisions for
executing the project civil works: two for construction, one for planning
and design and one for operation of mechanical equipment, each under an
Executive Engineer (EE), and all under direct supervision of the Project
Director who would be a Superintending Engineer (SE) (Annex 1, C-3). The
two ID project construction divisions, including headquarters staff, field
staff, and maintenance staff, would coordinate the construction program and
complete the earthwork, structures, and O&M buildings. Construction would
be under the daily supervision of Assistant Engineers (AEs), assisted by Sub-
Assistant Engineers (SAE), who would reside at the construction sites. The
ID would carry out the work each year over the dry period of 120 to 150 days,
operating the earthmoving equipment about 12 hours per day.
5.07      For the ID to accommodate this project in its 1979 to 1985 workload
would require a moderate (15%) increase in total staff numbers. The ID
presently is staffed with experienced engineers who would provide adequate
management for this as well as on-going projects. The total professional
staff (at Engineering Surveyor level or above) to be assinged to the Paddyland
II Project would amount to about 536 (335 ESs, 140 SAEs, 50 AEs, 5 AEEs, 5
EEs and 1 SE). 1/ About half of these positions would be filled by transfers
or promotions from within the ID from other projects presently completed or
nearing completion. The ID would recruit about 226 new staff. GOB would give
its approval for the appointment of this new staff no later than March 31,
1979, and the appointment of these new staff, as well as the transfer of
the other staff to the project would be carried out according to the project
implementation schedule. An agreement was reached with GOB that GOB would
increase the ID staff according to a schedule agreed with IDA.
5.08      Agriculture Corporation.  Under the AC Extension Division, the
present Irrawaddy Division Project Extension Manager (PEM), posted at Wakema,
and a new PEM for the Rangoon Division, to be posted at Syriam, would admin-
ister the T&V extension program in the Paddyland I and II project areas. Each
PEM would serve under the respective AC Divisional Manager in addition to the
present Deputy Divisional Managers for extension and supply. The program
would cover the entire administrative areas of the ten townships, including
the five Paddyland I townships where the program began (Bogale, Labutta,
Ngapudaw, Pyapon, and Wakema) and the five townships (Kyaiklat, Maubin,
Syriam, Kayan and Kyauktan) which would be added under this project (Annex 1,
C-4).
5.09      Each township would have a Township Extension Manager (TEM) and a
Deputy Township Extension Manager (DTEM) who would supervise the work of two
to six Village Tract Extension Managers (VTEMs) each in charge of six Village
1/   ES  - Engineering Surveyor or higher grade
SAE - Sub-Assistant Engineer or higher grade
AE  - Assistant Engineer or similar grade
AEE - Assistant Executive Engineer or similar grade
EE - Executive Engineer
SE - Superintending Engineer



- 24 -
Extension Managers (VEMs). VEMs would be responsible for about 450 farm
families each in the Maubin and Kyaiklat townships and about 500 each in the
Syriam, Kayan, and Kyauktan townships. The program would be assisted by one
additional Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) in Irrawaddy Division for the
townships of Maubin and Kyaiklat and two SMSs for Rangoon Division. The
extension managers at all levels would be assigned full time to extension
activities (para 3.11). The total extension service staff to be assigned
full-time to the T&V program in the five townships (Kyaiklat, Maubin, Syriam,
Kayan, and Kyauktan) would amount to about 192 (152 VEMs, 24 VTEMs, 5 DTEMs,
5 TEMs, 5 SMSs, and 1 PEMs), 1/ bringing to about 407, the total number of
extension staff assigned to the T&V program in the ten townships of the Paddy-
land I and II projects. Taking into account the existing staff to be assigned
full-time to the T&V program, the AC would appoint about 95 additional staff
(73 VEMs, 14 VTEMs, 2 DTEMs, 2 TEMs, 3 SMSs, and 1 PEM). An agreement was
reached with GOB that it would: (a) adopt a Training and Visits Program
in consultation with IDA for the extension services in the ten townships
of the Paddyland I and II project areas; (b) appoint and maintain adequate
experienced and qualified staff for the extension services according to
a schedule agreed with IDA; and (c) ensure that all staff members of the
extension services work full-time on activities directly related to agricul-
tural extension work in the ten townships and are provided with adequate
funds and transportation to carry out their duties.
5.10      The AC Director would be responsible for supply of farm inputs.
The AC would appoint Deputy Township Managers (Supply) at Syriam and Labutta
in addition to the two presently at Wakema and Maubin. The HYV seeds and
local improved seeds produced on AC seed farms in Pyapon and Maubin townships
would serve the Labutta, Daunggyi and Thongwa islands, while those from the
Syriam AC seed farm would serve Bawchaung island. AC procures and distributes
inputs to township godowns in quantities according to planned targets. GOB's
Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82) targets for crop acreage, production
and major input supply are set through a process whereby the targets are
initially suggested by villages, compiled and sent up through village tracts
and townships, and then modified and finalized by the Ministry of Finance and
Planning in consultation with the MAF and supply agencies. Township and
Village Tract People's Councils determine distribution to village tracts
within the finalized township planned targets.
5.11      At present, GOB allocates fertilizers throughout the country only
for application to HYV and jute. An agreement was reached with GOB, similar
to that reached for the Paddyland I Project, that GOB would make fertilizers
available for sale to farmers in the project area for cultivation of all crops
(para 5.13).
1/   VEM  - Village Extension Manager
VTEM - Village Tract Extension Manager
DTEM - Deputy Township Extension Manager
TEM  - Township Extension Manager
SMS  - Subject Matter Specialist
PEM  - Project Extension Manager



- 25 -
5.12      The Agricuiltural Mechanization Department.  The AMD would be respon-
sible for clearing the 50,000 ac of abandoned and waste land in the protected
areas. At present, farmers already are clearing and reclaiming some of this
land in the project area, The AMD would encourage other farmers to undertake
land clearing and, by the time the ID has completed construction of the drain-
age and flood protection works on each island, the AMD would complete the
clearing. Bottom lands requiring drainage ahead of clearing would be cleared
in the year following completion of the works. The AMD would also procure the
farm machinery, distribute this equipment to stations in or near the project
areas, and sell it to farmers. Project pumps and tillers would be procured
and distributed in line with the following procedures now used in Lower Burma:
(a)  Based on the Third Four Year Plan, the MAF Central Com-
mittee allocates farm machinery quotas to States/Divisions,
and annually States/Divisions People's Councils allocate quotas
to townships and inform the AMD head office which arranges pro-
curement and distribution accordingly.
(b) Farmers, farmer groups or cooperatives desiring to purchase
machinery apply to the Township People's Council through the
Village Tract People's Councils. The Economic Affairs Sub-
Committee of the Township Council decide which applicants are
eligible for the machinery on hand. The AMD station sells to
the chosen applicants, and both the Township Council and the
AMD station keep a register of the buyers.
(c) For power tillers and low-lift pumps, the buyers pay cash.
5.13      Cash sales under these arrangements have been satisfactory for the
Irrigation I project. Pumps and power tillers are traded privately at prices
more than twice the GOB price, and demand is high. The program of medium- and
long-term credit to be activated by MAB would enable small farmers (less than
3 ac) as well as large farmers to purchase this equipment (paras 3.12 and
5.14). Until the institutional credit is available, small farmers would rent
the equipment on a daily basis from neighboring farmers as they are doing at
present. The pumps and power tillers to be provided under this project are
intended for cultivation of all crops. Any restriction on their sale, such as
in 1977 the temporary GOB limitation of AMD pump sales only to jute farmers,
would be a disincentive to expansion of irrigation and land development in the
project areas. An agreement was reached with GOB that it would sell chemical
farm inputs, pumps, and power tillers to farmers without limiting the use
thereof to the cultivation of any particular crop. An agreement also was
reached with GOB that the AMD would charge for all farm machinery repair and
maintenance services at rates sufficient to cover the cost of operation and
maintenance and depreciation of the AMD service stations and service station
equipment.
5.14      Myanma Agricultural Bank.  The GOB's Third Four-Year Plan includes
funds for a program of agricultural credit (short, medium- and long-term) for
farmers in Lower and Upper Burma. MAB will use its 41 existing TBs and the
associated VBs (about 60 to 70 VBs are associated with each TB) and,
eventually, will open additional banks. It is scheduled to start medium-



- 26 -
and long-term lending to farmers in the Paddyland I project area as soon as
project works are completed on each island, starting in 1980 on Zinbaung
island. For its medium- and long-term lending program, MAB will organize a
development credit wing with up-to-date organization, operating procedures,
and lending criteria; and institute a staff development program. Under the
project, MAB would employ about 39 man-months of consulting services over a
period of about 1.5 years to prepare a medium- and long-term credit project
suitable for external financ:ing, and to assist MAB in organizing its develop-
ment credit wing and establishing its staff development program. An agreement
was reached with GOB that MAB would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be drawn in consul-
tation with IDA. The consulting services' draft terms of reference (TOR),
agreed with GOB, are given in Annex 3.
Land Acquisition for Project Works
5.15      In Burma, farmers are given rights for land cultivation, not for
ownership (para 2.07). The GOB would exchange the rights to land to be
taken by project embankments and drainage channels for the rights to land
to be newly reclaimed under the project. Construction would take place only
after the harvest, so that no crop compensation would be involved.
Allotment of Reclaimed Land
5.16      Each township presently maintains a list of "families with insuffi-
cient land" (below about 4 ac) and "landless families" according to which
the reclaimed land in the project areas would be alloted. An agreement was
reached with GOB that the allotments would be made as follows:
(a)  To farmers whose land is to be totally or partially
occupied by project works; the number of such families
and the amount of land needed would be determined after
the ID finalizes the alignments of embankments, drains,
and other works;
(b)  To farmers who have not been allotted land or who
have been allotted sub-economic holdings; and
(c)  To state farms and to cooperatives.
5.17      As soon as the ID finalizes the alignment of works at each location,
the SLRD would locate on cadastral maps the plots to be affected. Using the
maps, the SLRD would survey and demarcate into 10 ac plots the land to be re-
claimed, stake out in the field the plot boundaries and prepare new cadastral
records and maps. The Township Councils and VLCs would notify applicants and
begin making allotments of the land to be reclaimed in each area at least two
years before completion of the embankments and drains. This would permit
farmers with lands to be displaced by project works to clear and begin devel-
oping new land in advance of turning over their present farm land to the ID.



- 27 -
Operation and Maintenance of Civil Works
5.18      ID would establish four units for O&M of project flood control and
drainage facilities, one for each island starting in 1981/82 with Thongwa,
each under supervision of an ID Assistant Engineer with adequate supporting
staff and labor. All four units would be supervised by one Executive Engineer,
who in turn would report to the Project Director.
5.19      At the location of each main channel regulator, ID would employ and
house a gateman, under the supervision of the O&M Assistant Engineer, who
would operate the slide gates according to schedules predetermined by the ID.
Adequate operation would require that along interior channels the ID would
maintain hydrologic stage gauges which would be read periodically as a basis
for monitoring interior flood levels, for maintaining appropriate gate operat-
ing schedules for wet season drainage and, in some locations, for dry season
impoundment of fresh water, and for periodically assessing the adequacy of
channel and sluice maintenance. The labor crews providing continuous embank-
ment maintenance would be organized in groups, one for each five miles of
embankment, each including five workmen in the dry season and eight workmen
in the wet season. Adequate maintenance would require that, during each dry
season, work crews make routine inspections and repairs to restore the embank-
ment side slopes and crest elevations after periodic settling and damage from
cattle, rain wash, and rodent and pest burrows; and that they free channels of
weeds and siltation and repair sluice gates and structures. They also would
complete major repairs occasioned by flood damage. During the monsoon season,
they would make frequent embankment inspections and carry out emergency
earthwork repairs to provide continuous protection for monsoon season crops.
An agreement was reached with GOB that ID would establish and equip a unit for
the O&M of the flood control and drainage facilities and the respective
interior hydrologic gauging stations on each of the four islands prior to the
completion of civil works thereon.
5.20      ID also would maintain its quarters and workshop buildings.  AC
would maintain the fertilizer godowns and training centers, and AMD the farm
equipment service stations. The annual O&M costs for project works (Annex 1,
T-ll, T-12, T-13), at constant prices, would amount to about K 5.2 M (K 30
per ac), including K 3.1 M (K 18 per ac) for the ID, K 1.6 M for the AC, and
K 0.5 M for the AMD (to be covered largely by farmer payments for machine
repair and maintenance). An agreement was reached with GOB that it would
cause the works and facilities of the project to be efficiently operated and
properly maintained and shall promptly make available adequate funds to its
implementing agencies and departments for this purpose.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.21      To aid MAF in the agricultural development of the project area and
to provide a base for the future evaluation of the project, a monitoring pro-
gram would be undertaken. Township Councils routinely maintain records from
which much of the pertinent information for the project areas would be com-
piled. However, agricultural surveys would be required to supplement that
information and to provide a consistent base for monitoring agricultural



- 28 -
development. An agreement was reached with GOB that the PIC would establish
a project monitoring unit and carry out benchmark surveys by January 31, 1979,
and follow-up surveys by January 31, 1981 and by January 31 every three years
thereafter through year 1994, of the cropped areas, yields, and use of farm
inputs in the project area. An agreement was also reached with GOB that
it would maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), and furnish to IDA at regular intervals all such information as
IDA shall reasonably request concerning the project, its cost, and where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, as well as the expendi-
tures of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds. By March 31 of the same year, the PIC would compile and
report to the MAF and IDA the following information for these areas:
(a)  Numbers and size cof households of farmers, landless
farm workers, and non-farmers;
(b)  Yearly cropping patterns, yields, and use of fertilizers,
pesticides, labor, draft animals and machinery;
(c)  Numbers of bullocks, power tillers and irrigation pumps;
(d)  Farm use of seasonal (APS) and medium- and long-term
credits;
(e)  Volume of GOB paddy procurement; and
(f)  Semimonthly water level elevations inside protected areas
at locations critical for monsoon season drainage and
dry season irrigation.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
6.01      The project would effect agricultural production on the 131,000 ac
which presently are cultivated and 50,000 ac which would be reclaimed. The
works would take out of production about 6,000 ac (4%) to be occupied prima-
rily by the embankments around the island perimeters, enabling 125,000 ac
presently cultivated to be improved, and the 50,000 ac to be developed.
6.02      Future Cropping Patterns.  Drainage and protection from flood
inundation would permit farmers to replace lower yielding paddy varieties
with HYV on nearly half of the existing farm land in the wet season. In the
absence of the project, farm cropping patterns would change little, with an
increase in wet season HYV in place of local varieties to only about 8,000 ac
(6%). Thus, the project woluld enable nearly a ten-fold increase in the acre-
age planted to HYV. Reclaimed land, nearly all of which would be planted



- 29 -
under wet season local paddy varieties, would increase the total farm area
by one-third (Table 6.1). The project cropping patterns are based on the
assessed future cropping calendars given in Annex 1, C-5.
Table 6.1: PRESENT AND FUTURE CROPPING PATTERNS
Future Without    Future With
Present         Project          Project
('000 ac)       ('000 ac)        ('000 ac)
Paddy (rainfed)           125.4           125.4             172.5
Paddy (irrigated)          -               -                  6.7
Jute                        2.7             2.7               5.1
Groundnuts                  1.0             1.0              18.5
Pulses                      1.0             1.0              37.8
Others                      4.1             4.1               4.1
Total Cropped Area    134.2             134.2            244.7
Land Area               131.0           131.0            175.0
Crop Intensity          103%            103%             140%
6.03      Additional dry season irrigation on Thongwa Island would increase
the cropped area by about 7,000 ac HYV paddy and about 2,000 ac jute. Pro-
vision of drainage, irrigation and extension services in the project area,
as in the Paddyland I project area, would enable the area of groundnuts and
pulses, relatively high value cash crops grown in the dry season, to increase
from about 2% to about 25% of the cropped area. Bawchaung and Thongwa islands
are particularly well-suited for cultivation of groundnuts, a crop tradi-
tionally in high demand. Difficulties experienced in other parts of the delta
in obtaining and storing high quality groundnut seeds would not be experienced
on these islands, where groundnuts have been grown previously, since the islands
are close to Rangoon. The soils are light at some medium to high elevations,
impounded water for irrigation would prevent severe depletion of soil moisture
in the dry season, and the control of water levels would enable the planting
dates for wet season Medon and Ngasein paddy varieties to be advanced to per-
mit groundnuts to be planted in November/December. The area under groundnuts,
accordingly, would increase to about 7% of the future cropped area. The
overall cropping intensity is expected to increase from 103% to 140%. This
increase in cropping intensity and the increase in land area by reclamation
would mean a total increase in cropped area of 82%, from 134,000 ac (131,000
ac at 103%) to about 245,000 ac (175,000 ac at 140%).
6.04      Future Yields and Production.  The protection from flooding and
saline water and the irrigation to be provided by the project would, apart
from permitting use of HYV seeds, make larger and more effective applications
of chemical fertilizers and pesticides financially rewarding. Assisted by
the intensive extension services, farmers' use of fertilizers in the area is
expected to increase from about 1,000 tons at present to an estimated about
13,000 tons that would be consistent with good cultivation practices at full
development eight years after project completion. Because of the project, the
adverse yield effects from salt water inundation in the Lower Delta would be
eliminated. Paddy yields on the average would about double from the present
low average of about 0.6 tons per ac to about 1.2 tons per ac. Yields of
jute, groundnuts, pulses, and vegetables also would increase substantially
(Table 6.2).



- 30 -
Table 6.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE YIELD LEVELS
Future     Future
Without     With
Present    Project    Project
(ton/ac)   (ton/ac)  (ton/ac)
Wet season paddy (local)           0.57        0.60       1.09
Wet season paddy (HYV)             0.95        1.09       1.34
Irrigated paddy (HYV)               -           -        1.43
Jute                               0.26        0.30      0.53
Groundnut                          0.40        0.50      0.54
Pulses                             0.30        0.30      0.35
6.05      As a result of the increases in land area, cropping intensity,
and yield levels, paddy and jute production would increase about three-fold.
Present and projected cropped areas and production are given in (Annex 1,
T-15).
6.06      Development Phasirg.  The extension services to be improved under
the project would begin as soon as project construction starts and would
prepare the farmers for the changes in cropping conditions. Accordingly,
achievement of the full levels of projected crop acreages and yields is
expected, on land already under cultivation, within five years after comple-
tion of project construction. On land to be reclaimed, it is expected to be
achieved within eight years after construction because the once boggy soils
need two to three years time to firm. Accordingly, the total incremental
production estimated to be generated by the project would be achieved in
about 1993.
Market Prospects
6.07      Rice, jute, and pulse production increments from the project area
would, for the most part, contribute to Burma's exports, since Lower Burma
is expected to continue to be a surplus producing area. Groundnuts would
contribute to domestic vegetable oil production of which Burma presently is
in short supply. A large international market also exists for groundnuts.
Production increases for the other crops would be small relative to present
output and would have a ready domestic market.
6.08      Burmese rice exports have long-established overseas markets, parti-
cularly in Asia (prior to World War II, Burma was the world's leading rice
exporter: over 3 M tons per year). Prospects for recapturing a part of
Burma's lost market appear good: Bank projections show long-term world demand
increasing at 2.4% per year, as a result of increases in both population and
world per capita consumption.  They also show a similar rate of increase in
supply, assuming no occurrence of widespread crop failures due to abnormal
weather conditions and based on the present rate of adoption of existing farm
technology. Following improvements in world production relative to demand
after 1974, international prices have fallen to about 40% of 1974 peak levels;
and over the next five years international price increases are expected to be
moderate (excluding inflationary increases).



- 31 -
6.09      The projected rice production increment from the project area (about
90,000 tons), nearly all of which GOB would procure for export and the balance
of which would result in a 60% to 70% increase in the volume of grain traded
in local markets at full development (1991). In the near future, a substan-
tial part of the increment could be handled by existing processing and storage
facilities which are presently running below capacity. In general, however,
Lower Burma's once extensive milling and handling infrastructure presently is
in relatively poor condition. The Asian Development Bank is assisting in the
renovation of 135 rice mills and construction of three new mills, 35 warehouses
and one silo complex; and IDA credit No. 642-BA includes funds for preparation
of a grain storage, handling and milling project. With Burma still a rice
exporter, the project related increases would contribute to Burma's export
earnings.
6.10      Jute, introduced in Burma in the 1950s, presently is a minor export
(less than 5% of total export value), partly offset by imports of jute bags
which are used in packaging. Although a poor world market outlook has resulted
from competition from synthetic fibers and from disruptions of export market-
ing channels, continued jute demand is expected from the developing countries.
While world-wide demand fell between 1970 and 1975 (3.4 M to 2.9 M tons per
year), over the next five years, the Bank forecasts that world demand will
recover at about 0.5% per year. A small increase in the international price
is projected.
6.11      Groundnuts and Pulses.  Since before the war, Burma has imported
vegetable oils (about K 30 million per year), for which domestically produced
groundnut oil can substitute. Since 1971, foreign exchange has been too
limited for GOB to import vegetable oils, and domestic market prices for
groundnuts (decontrolled in 1967) have been at equivalent world market levels.
A slow gain in world production relative to demand is forecast to lead to a
moderate decline in international vegetable oil prices. GOB exports part of
the pulse production and the balance is marketed domestically at open market
prices. Most groundnut and pulse production increases would come on Bawchaung
and Thongwa islands which are close to Rangoon, the major market center. Pro-
duction increases from the project area, which would be very small relative
to national production, thus would have strong and established markets.
Prices
6.12      Agricultural Commodities.  The financial prices used in the farm
income analysis are GOB controlled prices where applicable and 1978 domestic
market prices adjusted for seasonal variations. Local market prices for the
major crops are closely linked with world market prices, which are expected
to increase moderately in the future. The controlled prices are below local
market price levels and below world market price levels, after adjustment
for domestic transport, handling, and processing costs. Domestic pricing
policies are aimed at maintaining farm production incentives and it is assumed
that in the future GOB would increase the controlled prices at least in line
with increases due to inflation. The future paddy supply/demand relationship
in local markets would remain about the same as at present, due to the increase
in population and local consumption and a large increase in paddy procurement
by GOB for export. (Future marketable surplus in the area would amount to



- 32 -
less than 15% of project area production compared to 20% at present). In the
financial analyses, the prices which have been used reflect the relative
levels prevailing in 1978, excluding the effects of inflation (Annex 1, T-16).
6.13       A part of farm paddy production (quota - para 5.19), by law, the
farmers are compelled to sell to the AFPTC at low GOB controlled prices (pre-
sently K 438 per ton for ordinary grades).  The marketable surplus farmers
sell within their townships in local markets at prices which have been about
50% over the controlled pricess. All jute production is procured on contract
at uniform GOB prices by AC, the sole operator of the baling presses.
6.14       GOB agreed under Credit No. 642-BA to periodically review and, if
necessary, revise the controLled paddy prices to ensure that farmers' produc-
tion incentives will not erode in the future. The Rice Commission which GOB
established in 1977 with the MAF Minister as chairman recommended a 2% to 6%
increase in the controlled prices for high grades, which became effective
October 1977. The price for ordinary grades, which comprises over 85% of
paddy procurement, has been at the same level since October 1974. Although
production costs have increased since then, K 438 per ton still covers the
farmers' cash costs (K 200 to K 250 per ton) plus a modest return for family
labor (K 3 to K 5 per man-day). The private market prices afford farmers in
the project area with some further incentive in some cases for small on-farm
investments. The GOB would continue to review and, if necessary, revise the
controlled prices in the future, particularly in view of continuing inflation.
6.15       Farm Inputs.  AC sells urea and potash at GOB prices which at
present are about one-third private market prices, indicating that supplies
are not adequate.  AC sells phosphate fertilizers (TSP) at prices about the
same as on the private market. Pesticide spraying is provided free of charge
(para 2.15).
6.16       Labor Wages and Draft Power Rates.  Wages for hired labor in the
area range from a low of K 4 per day to K 8 per day during peak farming
activity (including the value of meals or portion of harvest). Most labor is
hired at K 6 per day. Draft animals are hired for about K 9 per day per pair,
exclusive of driver's wage. For the analysis it was assumed that future dev-
elopment in the rural economy would not significantly increase wage rates
relative to the prices of agricultural outputs.
Farm Incomes
6.17       Farm Models.  Five representative models reflect the main differ-
ences in farm size distribution and in the cropping conditions in the Middle
and Lower Deltas (paras 6.02 and 6.03). In the Middle Delta, where a 5 ac
farm size is common, farms at: three elevations (high, medium, and low) charac-
terize the range of cropping conditions which accompany small differences in
land elevation. In the Lower Delta, where a 10 ac farm size is common, land
elevation differences are not as significant. The Bawchaung Island model
reflects the broader crop mix possible on soils found in that part of the Pegu
Delta. The Daunggyi Island miodel is representative of the lower Irrawaddy
Delta farms. The proportions of these different farm models in the whole



- 33 -
project area would be about 10% Middle Delta high elevation, 13% Middle Delta
medium elevation, 11% Middle Delta low, 20% Bawchaung, and 46% Lower Delta.
6.18      Use of Inputs.  Projected use of farm inputs reflect the project-
wide increases which would follow the reduction of cultivation risks after
protection from flooding and saline inundation. They also reflect increases
which would accompany improved distribution and assistance from extension
services. In addition to the costs of material inputs, production costs in
the analysis include the costs of hired labor and draft power, land tax
(K 3.5 per ac), and irrigation, which include average costs for fuel, lubri-
cants and maintenance plus the capital cost amortized over a six year life
at 10%. The costs include an additional 25% for contingencies (Annex 1, T-17).
6.19      Net Incomes.  In computing the net farm incomes, the compulsory
paddy quotas are valued at the controlled price and the balance of paddy
production is valued at the local market prices (para 6.12). The results
of the farm budget analyses (Annex 1, T-18, T-19) indicate that incomes from
farm operations would increase about 300% as a result of the project (Table
6.3). If farmers were to realize no increase in incomes from the dry season
production of groundnuts and pulses (para 6.03), future farm operating incomes
would be 10% to 40% lower (depending on farm elevation), meaning a project
related increase in incomes of only 180% to 250%. If farmers were permitted
to market paddy only at prices equivalent to present controlled levels, future
farm operating incomes would be about 20% lower than in Table 6.3. Under
these circumstances, the farmers would still have some, although very small,
incentives to increase production (para 6.14). On the other hand, if the
compulsory paddy procurement system were to be abolished and farmers could
market their surplus production at local market prices (para 6.12), farm
operating incomes would be about 25% higher than in Table 6.3. If farmers
were not restricted from international trade, the prices prevailing in the
area would be equivalent to world market prices, after adjustment for domestic
transport, handling and processing costs, and future farm operating incomes
would be still higher.
Table 6.3: PRESENT AND PROJECTED FARM INCOMES
(Kyat)
Future     Future      Project
Without      With       Related
Present    Project    Project    Increase (%)
(P)          (w)         (w)       (W/W)
Middle Delta
1.  High        5 ac  3,200        3,430       9,630         280%
2.  Medium      5 ac  2,570         2,720       7,250        270%
3.  Low         5 ac  1,160         1,220       2,630        220%
Lower Delta
1.  Bawchaung 10 ac  1,780         1,910       7,730        400%
2   Daunggyi  10 ac  1,540          1,580       5,170        330%



- 34 -
6.20       Information about other project farm income, such as from fishing,
poultry and hog raising and other sources is not available.  Some very small
farmers and landless families depend largely on such income, but for the bulk
of the farmers other income is likely to comprise less than one-third of total
income. Assuming that such iincome comprises one-third, the project's impact
on total income would be an increase of 230% rather than 300%.
Cost Recovery
6.21      Annual Capital and O&M Recovery Costs.  The capital costs of project
works, excluding the costs of farm machinery for which farmers would pay
directly, the costs of technical assistance, O&M and extension service costs
during implementation, and taxes, would amount to about K 260 M (K 1,480 per
ac) in 1978 constant prices. The annual cost to recover this amount over a
30 year period including 10% per annum cost of capital would be about K 27 M
per year (K 8.6 M if cost of capital were zero). Annual expenditures for
project works O&M would amoun,t to K 4.7 M (para 5.20), bringing the total
annual recovery cost to about K 32 M (K 185 per ac).
6.22      Present Taxation.  Farmers now are obligated to pay only a fixed
land tax, which varies from place to place according to land quality and
other conditions. In the project area, K 3.5 per ac is about the average
rate. An increase in the land tax to recover any part of project costs would
require complete reassessment and reclassification of the lands throughout the
townships in which the project is located and for which no institutional
arrangements presently are in effect.
6.23      GOB Compulsory Paddy Procurement.  In 1964, GOB took responsibility
for paddy procurement and rice distribution from private millers and traders;
and in 1973 it introduced the compulsory paddy procurement system and con-
trolled paddy prices (para 6.13). The present administration of the system
would tax incremental farm production in the project area directly and pro-
gressively, and would be adequate for project cost recovery purposes, as it is
for the Paddyland I Project. Under this system, the quota which farmers are
required to sell to AFPTC at the controlled prices are scaled to the farmers'
sown acreage and yields which are assessed annually. The quotas are progres-
sive, ranging from 7% of paddy production (2 ac, 0.6 ton/ac) to over 75% of
paddy production (20 ac, 2.0 ton/ac), and in most cases taking about 80% of
the production increment (Annex 1, T-20). The difference between the pro-
jected rice export price (US$300 per ton) and GOB's procurement price plus
milling, handling, and transport costs (K 975 per ton rice) is a tax amount-
ing to about US$170 (K 1,250) per ton 1/. Thus, the increase in GOB net
procurement earnings would amount to about US$12 M (K 88 M) per year from
the incremental procurement (71,000 tons rice) from the project area at full
development. The system, therefore, would permit recovery of more than the
full project capital and O&M costs (K 32 M).
6.24      Farmer's Capacity for Additional Taxation.  A measure of this is
the portion of incremental farm income which would be available after the
family is adequately rewarded for its expenses, labor, management and risks
1/   At the official exchange rate, US$1.0 = K 7.4.



.- 35 -
(Project Rent). In estimating the Project Rent, family labor was valued at
K 6 per man-day, the average market wage, and rewards for management were
taken as 10% of net farm income. A margin for cultivation risks was taken
as 10% of the gross crop income. For the five farm models, the Project Rent
estimates range from about K 980 to K 4,500 (based on private market paddy
prices 50% over the controlled prices), and of those amounts, the compulsory
quota would take less than 50% (Annex 1, T-21). The associated marginal tax
rates on incremental income would be less than 30% and average tax rates on
total income would be less than 25%. Accordingly, the levels of taxation on
project related income represented by the compulsory quota system would be
reasonable.
6.25      An agreement was reached with GOB, similar to the agreement reached
for the Paddyland I project, that GOB would periodically review and, if neces-
sary, revise its paddy pricing system so as to ensure that farmers in the pro-
ject area have adequate financial incentive to make the investments necessary
to increase production; and in the event that the existing compulsory paddy
procurement system is modifed or abolished, that GOB would establish and main-
tain arrangements in consultation with IDA for the recovery of the capital and
operation and maintenance costs of the project.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Overall Effect
7.01      This project, like the Paddyland I Project, would improve and expand
some of Burma's most productive paddyland and assist Burma in recapturing part
of its once large rice export market. The project is expected to increase:
(a) output of existing farms in the project area by over 200%, (b) the number
of farms by about 33%, thereby providing farm land for about 70% of the presently
landless families in the area, and (c) direct farm employment by about 240%.
Employment Opportunities
7.02      Under the project, farm labor requirements would more than double
from about 5 M to nearly 12 M man-days per year. Farm employment in relation
to labor availability would increase from 30% at present to about 60% of
expected availability in the future (assuming 2.2% per annum population growth
rate). Without the project, the level of farm employment would remain about
the same but the population growth would cause the overall employment level
to diminish eventually to less than 25% of expected availability. In this
perspective, the project would more than double farm employment opportunities,
and landless families would be the prime beneficiaries. Furthermore, the
production increases under the project would stimulate additional off-farm
wage-earning opportunities in the local processing industries and market
centers.



- 36 -
Household Income Effects
7.03      At present, most project farm incomes are below the low national
average (US$130 per capita). After full project development, these incomes
would be about three times present levels (para 6.19) and above the future
national average, assuming growth in the national average at 3% per year (in
constant terms). The proportion of farms below relative poverty income levels
(US$40 per capita) would be reduced from 25% at present to less than 10%. The
number of farm workers per net cultivated land area, due to population growth,
would remain about the same at full development, despite farm settlement by
most of the presently landless families. Taking into account the increase in
farm wage opportunities, the project would directly improve the income oppor-
tunities for more than 75% of all households in the project area.
Benefits to the Economy
7.04      Burma's export earnings from the future incremental output of rice
and jute are expected to be as follows:
Annual
Future Incremental      Rangoon       Foreign Exchange
Procurement        Port Price         Earnings
(1,000 tons)         (US$/tons) /a      (US$ M)       /a
Milled rice             71.4                300              21.4
Baled jute               1.9                378               0.7
TOTAL                                                     22.1
/a   Expressed in 1978 constant Dollars.
7.05      After deducting the foreign exchange component of the costs of pro-
duction inputs and equipment spares, net annual foreign exchange earnings
generated by the project would be about US$20 million. When the local value
of the incremental output of pulses, groundnuts and other crops is considered,
less the cost of production inputs, the total value added to the Burmese
economy would amount to about K 298 million annually.
Economic Analysis
7.06      Foreign Exchange.  The official value of foreign exchange (OER),
US$1.0 = K 7.4, does not reflect the prevailing supply of and demand for for-
eign exchange in the Burmese economy since it is maintained by very stringent
exchange and trade restrictions. On the private market, foreign currency is
traded at rates between K 20 to 25 per US Dollar, reflecting the risk premium
associated with such illegal transactions. Because disaggregated data is not
available in Burma and the available aggregative data is of poor quality, the
standard World Bank procedures for estimating the shadow price of foreign
exchange could not be followed. Instead, an alternative procedure was used
which involved making adjustments for the under-recording of imports and
estimating the tariff equivalent of non-tariff restriction on imports and



- 37 -
exports. In the context of the prevailing tariff structure, including the
complete ban on certain imports and the monopoly of certain exports, a shadow
exchange rate (SER) was estimated to be about US$1.0 = K 15.0, corresponding
to a standard conversion factor (SCF = OER/SER) = 0.5.
7.07      Prices used in the economic analysis for rice, jute and fertilizers,
to reflect GOB's opportunities for potential export earnings and import sav-
ings (para 6.07), are derived from the Bank's 1985 projected world market
prices for these commodities expressed in terms of constant March 1978 prices
(Annex 1, T-22). Prices for the other commodities, expressed in terms of the
same constant prices, are based on domestic price levels and trends and their
relationships to the rice price. All prices have been adjusted to farmgate
levels for freight, handling, and processing and tax or subsidy components have
been eliminated (Annex 1, T-23). GOB rice exports have been sold mostly under
government-to-government contracts. In 1974 and 1975, the rice contract prices
were about 30% below the prices for Thai 5% brokens, the base used for the
Bank's commodity price forecasts. A 1985 world market price of US$300 per ton,
30% below the Bank's 1985 projected price (in 1978 prices), has been used in
the analysis.
7.08      Farm Labor Opportunity Wage.  Statistics on non-farm activities such
as fishing, pig and poultry farming, and trading are not available so that
estimation of the opportunity cost of farm labor is highly subjective. Slack
season farm labor is supplied in large part without wages by family members.
Throughout the year except for a few months field requirements are not suf-
ficient to fully occupy the labor force. It is apparent, therefore, that the
average opportunity cost of labor is less than the prevailing wage of K 6 per
man-day paid to hired labor during times of heavy activity. On the other hand,
because of the availability of some off-farm employment, the average oppor-
tunity cost exceeds the marginal subsistence value.
7.09      The opportunity labor cost for this analysis is estimated on the
basis of the hypothetical labor demand curve (Annex 1, C-6). This figure shows
that as a larger proportion of the labor force is employed, the opportunity wage
increases: initially at a slow rate reflecting scarcity of alternative produc-
tive employment, with the rate of increase growing as labor becomes more fully
utilized. Should employment levels exceed the maximum labor availability, the
opportunity cost would increase again at a slower rate since the high wage rate
would begin to attract a large number of non-local migrants from neighboring
areas. Field interviews indicate that even in the slackest part of the season
more than K 3.5 per day is required to hire any farm workers. In periods of
moderate field activity, the opportunity cost of labor is about K 6 per day,
and in peak season, it may reach as high as K 8 per day in some parts of the
project areas. The economic opportunity cost of all farm labor is equal to
the area under the curve. The estimated average shadow wage rate is K 5 per
day (Annex 1, T-24).
7.10      Farm Development.  Full agricultural development for existing and
reclaimed farms is expected to be reached six and eight years respectively
after completion of the drainage works (including embankments, sluices, and
channels) and land clearing in each area. Phasing of development over the



- 38 -
four polders follows the construction and land clearing implementation
schedule given in Annex 1, C-1. Full development would be reached gradually
over a period of 14 years after construction has commenced.
7.11      Land Acquisition.  Agricultural land to be taken for project works
(6,000 ac) has been valued at its opportunity cost based on the crop produc-
tion foregone.
7.12      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  On the above assumptions, and a
30 year project life, the ERR has been estimated at 24% for the project as
a whole, 29% for Thongwa Island alone, and 22% for the Lower Delta (Annex 1,
T-25, T-26). The relatively high ERR for Thongwa Island is explained by the
lower investment cost per ac and the larger area of dry season cultivation
there than in the other areas. The high ERRs for individual cases indicate
the viability of individual island projects.
Project Risk
7.13      The central project benefit is the significant reduction in crop
related risks through the provision of controlled water conditions for both
wet and dry season cropping. The works are easily constructed, simply operated,
small in scale and scattered so that any failure would have a low probability
of occurrence and small impact on project output. The following sensitivity
analyses illustrate the low degree of risk associated with these and other
factors.
Table 7.2: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Lower Delta    Middle Delta   Project Whole
Base Analysis                         22%              29%            24%
Variations
(a) Construction Costs 25% over
estimates:                      19%              26%            21%
(b) Yields or prices 15% less
than projected:                 20%              27%            22%
(c) Net Benefits 25% lower
than estimated:                 18%              25%            20%
(d) Construction delayed and
benefits slipped two years:   17%                22%            18%
(e) Foreign exchange valued
at US$1 = K 10.0:               17%              24%            19%
(f) Farm labor valued at K 6.5
per man-day:                    22%              28%            24%
7.14      If unforeseen events lead to the simultaneous occurrence of: (a) con-
struction cost overrun of 25%, (b) slippage of two years, and (c) achievement
of only 75% of projected net benefits, the economic rate of return would be
about 14%. If no increment is realized from groundnuts and pulse production,
overall net benefits would be 10% lower than estimated and the economic rate
of return would be about 22%. The project would still be viable under these
conditions.



- 39 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements have been reached with GOB that:
(a) GOB would provide medium- and long-term credit to farmers
in the Paddyland II Project areas for purchasing bullocks,
farm machinery, implements, and spare parts; and it would
furnish to IDA information on: (i) the lending terms and
conditions, (ii) the loan application procedures, (iii) the
appraisal criteria, and (iv) the supervision and collection
guidelines for the credit to be provided (para 3.12);
(b) (i) separate accounts for each project component would
be maintained by the respective implementing agencies,
and collated by the PIC, (ii) these accounts would be
audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied by the Director General,
Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the Council
of the People's Inspectors of the GOB; and (iii) PIC would
furnish to IDA copies of the summary of an unaudited annual
project account within four months of the end of the fiscal
year, to be followed by certified copies of the audited
account and auditor's report within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year (para 4.07);
(c) the PIC by December 31, 1978, and by December 31 of each
year thereafter, through 1994, would estimate and report
to the MAF and to IDA on satisfactory requirements for
the following fiscal year (April 1 to March 31) for new
seed, chemical farm inputs, farm implements, farm machinery
and spare parts, and fuel and diesel oil in the ten townships
of the Paddyland I and II projects; and that GOB would main-
tain arrangements for timely distribution of these supplies
and services to all parts of the project areas (para 5.05).
(d) GOB would increase the ID staff according to a schedule
agreed with IDA (para 5.07);
(e) GOB would: (i) adopt a Training and Visits Program in
consultation with IDA for the extension services in
the ten townships of the Paddyland I and II project
areas; (ii) appoint and maintain adequate experienced
and qualified staff for the extension services according
to a schedule agreed with IDA; and (iii) ensure that
all staff members of the said extension services work
full-time on activities directly related to agricultural
extension work in the ten townships and are provided
with adequate funds and transportation to carry out
their duties (para 5.09);



- 40 -
(f) GOB would sell chemical farm inputs, pumps, and power
tillers to farmers without limiting the use thereof
to the cultivation of any particular crop (para 5.13);
(g) the AMD would charge for all farm machinery repair and
maintenance services at rates sufficient to cover the
cost of operation and maintenance and depreciation of
the AMD service stations and service station equipment
(para 5.13);
(h)  MAB would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment
would be drawn in consultation with IDA (para 5.14);
(i) GOB would ensure that land in the project area be
allotted to: (i) farmers whose lands are totally
or partially occupied by the civil works of the
project; (ii) farmers who have not been allotted
land or have been allotted sub-economic holdings;
and (iii) state farms and cooperatives (para 5.16);
(j) ID would establish and equip a unit for the O&M of the
flood control and drainage facilities and the respective
interior hydrologic gauging stations on each of the four
islands prior to completion of civil works thereon
(para 5.19);
(k) GOB shall cause the works and facilities of the project
to be efficiently operated and properly maintained and
shall promptly make available adequate funds to its
implementing agencies and departments for the purpose
(para 5.20);
(1)  PIC would establish a project monitoring unit and carry
out benchmark surveys by January 31, 1979, and follow-up
surveys by January 31., 1981 and by January 31 every
three years thereafter through year 1994, of the cropped
areas, yields, and use of farm inputs in the project area
(para 5.21);
(m)  GOB would maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), and
would furnish to IDA at regular intervals all such
information as IDA shall reasonably request concerning
the project, its cosit and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, as well as the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds (para 5.21);



- 41 -
(n)  GOB would periodically review and, if necessary, revise
its paddy pricing system so as to ensure that farmers in
the project area have adequate financial incentive to make
the investments necessary to increase production (para 6.25);
and,
(o)  In the event that the existing compulsory paddy procurement
system is modified or abolished, GOB would establish and
maintain arrangements in consultation with IDA for the
recovery of the capital and operation and maintenance
costs of the project (para 6.25).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness which were agreed with GOB would
be the establishment of the PU II, appointment of the PU II Project Director,
and assignment of the five ID Executive Engineers and the AC PEM for Rangoon
Division to work under the PU II (para 5.02).
8.03      With the above agreements and condition of credit effectiveness,
the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$34.5 million
on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of Burma.
June 22, 1978



BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Climatic Data
Monthly
Temperature F      Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    June    July    Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec    Annual
Maubin  Max.        86.6   84.9   96.8   98.3   93.9   87.7    85.7    85.2  '86.2    86.5   88.2   85.9
Min.        62.5   62.1   67.2   74.8   76.2   76.4    75.8    75.4   76.0    74.4   72.0   58.5   (Mean)
'Mean        74.6   76.0   82.9   86.6   85.1   82.1    80.8    80.3   81.3    82.3   80.1   75.7    80.6
Rainfall - In
(Total)
Maubin              0.12   0.23   0.28   1.65   11.15  17.94   21.68   19.16  13.22   6.49   2.63   0.54    96.14
Pyapon              0.08   0.17   0.32   1.41   11.11  19.89   21.75   20.60  13.60   7.66   3.19   0.90   100.63
Myaumgmya           0.22   0.11   0.15   0.132   8.52  20.44   21.43   21.34  14.81   7.68   1.36   0.60    97.72
Average Humidity
(Average')
Maubin               68      62      59     58       75      87       88       89     88      83      77      73      76.0



-43-                                ANNEX 1
T-2
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Water Supply, Quality and Demand
Estimated Requirements for Pumps
Peak                       Peak           Pump-/
Field      Pumping    Pumping Duty       Command       Crop    Nos.
Requirement    Time      @ 75% Irr. Eff.  @.7 cusec       Area    Pumps
in/mo       hr/mo         ac/cfs.        ac/unit.   (000 ac)  Units
Jute               6. 58       250             27            19          5.1 )      2/
) 335~
Hnanga             8.9         250             21            15           5.1 )
HYV                9.26        250            20             14           6.7    480
Vegetables         5.65        250            32             23          4.1    181
995
(say    1,000)
1/ For a 0.7cusec, pump unit.
2/  Use 335 units for the 5,100 ac. jute-Hnanga rotation.



-44-
ANNEX 1
BURMA                                               T3
T-3
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Pump Water Requirements
Jan   Feb   Mar   April   Msy   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec
Jute-Hnanga Rice
(5,100 ac)
Consumptive use (in)-Jute                0     0      1.84   5.42   6.15  4.21   3.4    0         0      0      0     0
Hnanga                          5.0   2.6   0        0       0     0       0      0      0       2.47  4.97  4.83
Field Preparation (in)                   0     0      2.8    0       0      0      0       0      5.0    5.0   0      0
Percolation Losses (in)                  4.0   2.0   0        2.0    2.0   2.0    1.0    0        0      2.0   4.0   4.0
Gross Field Requirement (in)             9.0   4.6   4.64   7.42   8.15  6.21   4.4    0          5.0    9.47  8.97  8.83
Effective Rainfall (in)                   .1    .18   .35    .84   5.67  9.12  11.0   10.5  10.07   4,95  2.01   .41
Net Field Requirement (im)               8.9   4.42  4.29   6.58   2.48  0          0      0      0      4.52  6.96  8.42
Pump Requirement (in)                   11.8   5.9   5.7    8.7    3.3   0         0       0      0      6.0   9.3  11.2
(75% Conveyance efficiency)
Pump Requirement
('000 ac-ft.)                   5.0   2.5   2.4    3.7    1.4   0         0       0      0       2.6   4.0   4.8
HYV Rice
(6,700 ac)
Consumptive use (in)                     5.27  5.44  5.52   0        0      0      0       0      0      0      0     2.56
Field Preparation (in)                   0     0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      5.0   5.0
Percolation losses (in)                  4.0   4.0   2.0    0        0      0      0       0      0      0      0     2.0
Gross Field Requirement (in)             9.27  9.44  7.52   0        0      0      0       0      0      0      5.0   9.56
Effective Rainfall (in)                   .1    .18   .22    .63   5.6  13.6   16.5   15.0  10.1    4.9   2.01   .41
Net Field Requirement (in)               9.26  9.26  7.3    0        0      0      0       0      0      0      2.99  9.15
Pump Requirement (in)
(75% Conveyance Efficiency)      12.3  12.3   9.7    0        0      0      0       0      0      0      4.0  12.2
Pump Requirement
('000 ac ft)                       6.9   6.9   5.4    0              O       O      O      O      0      2.2   6.8
Vegetables
( 4, 100 ac)
Consumptive use (in)                     5.6  '5.7   5.8    3.1    0        0      0       d      o      o      o     o
Field Preparation (in)                   00           0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0     0
Percolation Losses (in)                  00           0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0     0
Gross Field Requirement (in)             5.6   5.7   5.8    3.1    0        0      0       0      0      0      0     0
Effective Rainfall (in)                   .1    .12   .15    .84   5.67  9.12  11.0   10.5   6.7    3.3   1.3    .26
Net Field Requirement (in)               5.5   5.58  5.65   2.26   0        0      0       0      0      0      0     0
Pump Requirement (in)
(75% Conveyance. Efficiency)      7.5   7.5   7.5    3.0    0        0       0      0      0      0      0      0
Pump Requirement
('000 ac-ft)                  2.5   2.5   2.5    1.0    0        0      0       0     0       0      0     0
Total Monthly Pumping Volume
('000 ac-ft)                 14.4  11.9  10.3    4.7    1.4   0         0       0      0      2.6   6.2  11.6



-45-
BURMA                                                          AlNNEX 1
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT                                              T-4
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Civil Works         Eng.
Equipment Cost               and Other Costs       & Adm.   Basic Project Coati!   F.E.  Total2/
Quantities    Local   Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Local  Foreign  Total          .    Coat -
1. ID Drainage & Flood Protec-
tion Works
Embankments (255 miles)       6.5 M cu yd  0.2        4.9     5.1        1.1      0.1     1.2       0.2    1.5      5.0     6.5       77
Drainage Channels and Creek
Closures (218 miles)        9.4           0.3       5.3     5.6        1.6      0.2     1.8       0.4    2.3      5.5     7.8       71
Channel Structures:
Sluices               18 No.
Regulators             3 No.
Culverts              57 No.
F. Bridges            47 No.        0.1      1.4      1.5        2.7     1.7      4.4      1.0    3.8       3.1     6.9      45
C. Bridges             5 No.
Camp sites, Field w/shops                   0.0       0.8      0.8       2.2      0.3     2.5       0.6    2.8      1.1    .LI        28
Sub-total                                0.6     12.4    13.0         7.6      2.3     9.9       2.2   10.4    14.7    25.1        59    27.2
2. AMD Farm Land Clearing:                      0.1      1.7      1.8       0.2      0.0      0.2      0.1    0.4      1.7      2.1      81     2.4
3. Farm Machinery
Irrigation Pumps              1000 Nos.    0.1        1.0     1.1         -        -       -        0.0    0.1      1.0      1.1      91
Power Tillers                 1050 NoS.    0.2        3.3      3.5        -        -       -        0.0    0.2      3.3      3.5      94
Implements                                  0.0       0.2      0.2        -        -       -        0.0    0.0      0.2      0.2     100
Sub-total                                0.3       4.5     4.8        0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.3      4.5     4.8       94     5.6
4. Agricultural Support
AMD Service Stations & Transport            0.0       0.2      0.2       0.3      0.0     0.3       0.1    0.4      0.2      0.6      33
AC Fertilizer Godowns & Training Centers   -           -        -        0.5      0.1     0.6       0.0    0.5      0.1      0.6      17
AC Extension Equipment                      0.2       0.3      0.5        -        -       -        0.0    0.2      0.3      0.5      60
AC Extension Service (7 yrs)                 -         -        -        1.2      0.0     1.2       0.0    1.2      0.0      1.2       0
AC Fertilizer Godowns Opr. (7 yrs)           -         -       -         0.1      0.0     0.1       0.0    0.1      0.0      0.1       0
Sub-total                                0.2       0.5     0.7        2.1     0.1      2.2       0.1    2.4      0.6     3.0       20     3.1
5. Workshop and Office Equipment
ID Central Workshop (Rangoon)               0.0       0.5     0.5        1.5      0.2     1.7       0.3    1.8      0.7      2.5      28
ID Office Equipment                         0.0       0.3     0.3        0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.3      0.3     100
SLRD Office Equipment                       0.0       0.2     0.2        0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.2      0.2     100
Sub-total                                0.0       1.0     1.0        1.5     0.2      1.7       0.3    1.8      1.2     3.0       40     3.2
6. 0 & M of Civil Works
Q & N During Construction                    -         -       -         0.9      0.0     0.9       0.0    0.9      0.0      0.9       0
Maintenance Equipment                       0.1       0. 2     0.3         -       -       -        D.&    0.1      0.2      0.3      67
Sub-total                                0.1       0.2     0.3        0.9     0.0      0.9       0.0    1.0      0.2     1.2       17     1.2
7. Consultants and Training
AC Extension Overseas Training               -         -        -        0.0      0.1     0.1       0.0    0.0      0.1      0.1     100      0.1
MAB Consultants & Equipment                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.4      0.4      D_a    0.0      0.4      0.4     100      0.4
Sub-total                                1.3      20.3    21.6       12.3     3.1    15.4        2.7   16.3    23.4    39.7        59    43.2
8. Physical Contingencies                      0.0       0.6      0.6       1.8      0.2     2.0       0.2    2.0      0.8      2.8       29     2.8
9. Expected Price Increases                    0.0       2.9      2.9       5.9      0.7     6.6       0.0    5.9      3.6      9.5       38    10.0
Grand Total                              1.3      23.8    25.1       20.0     4.0    24.0        2.9   24.2    27.8    52.0        53    56.0
1/ Before Taxes and Duties.
2/ Including Taxes and Duties.



-46---                         ANNEX 1
T-5
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
ID Civil Works O&M Costs During the Seven-Year Implementation Period
Years
Polder       Net Area      Unit Cost      Cost/yr.         4      5      6      7
1/~~-       -- - - - -        ---------(K00_________
Thongwa       58.7          K18/ac         1,060           -    1,060  1,060  1,060
Daunggyi      50.9             "             920           -      -      920    920
Bawchaung     35.4             "             640           -      -      320    640
Laputta       30.2             "             550           -      -       -     550
1,060 2,300 3,170
Total cost, years (5-7) - K.6.6 million
1/ O&M cost per acre from ANNEX 1, T-11



-47-
ANNEX 1
T-6
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
AC Cost of Incremental Extension Service and Godown
Operation During the Seven-Year Implementation Period
No. Years
No.     Operational   (K'OOO per year)  (KM)
Incremental Extension Service                         7              1,1661l/     8.1
Godown Operation (4 years)               1            4                 68        0.3
(3 years)              2            6                 68        0.4
(2 years)              1            2                 68        0.1
(1 year)               1            1                 68        0.1
(0 years)              1            0                 68        0.0
6          13                           0.9
Training Center Operation                 6          13                 46        0.6
Total                                                           9.6
1/ Annual cost from ANNEX 1, T-13.



-48-
ANNEX 1
T-7
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
List of Equipment for Reserved Procurement (RP)
Irrigation Department                           Quantity    Foreign   Local   Total
-----(US$ 1,000)-------
Wheel tractor with trailer (4 ton)               20          144        7       151
Truck (6 ton)                                     6           66        3        69
Fuel bowser (1600 gal)                            2           40        2        42
Water bowser (1200 gal)                           3           36        2        38
Water pump (1200 gpm)                             6           35        2        37
Water pump (300 gpm)                             15            9        0         9
Inspection vehicle                                8           64        3        67
Motor boat hull                                   8            0       48        48
Van pick-up                                       2            8        0         8
Bicycles                                        100            9        0         9
Agriculture Mechanization Department
Diesel bowser (1600 gals)                         3           60        3        63
Power tiller (7-8 hp) and spares (20%)         1050        3,280      170    3,450
Irrig4pumps (300 gpm) hose, spares (30%)   1000              980      140    1,120
Tools and Agric. implements (except        /
1000 hand saws)                     90      16       106
Motor boat hull                                   1            0        0         6
Van pick-up                                       3           12        1        13
Agriculture Corporation
Hull for motorized boat (100 hp)                  2            0       30        30
Hull for inboard diesel powered (60 hp)           5            0       50        50
Motorized country boat hull and 5 hp engine  40               60       40       100
Four-wheel drive vehicle                          5           35        2       37
Bicycles                                        100            7        2        9
Thresher                                         20           35        2       37
Dryer                                            20           18        0        18
Training center furniture & Office Equip.         6 sets       3       17       20
Total                                              4,991      546    5,537
Contingencies                                        609       54       663
Grand Total                                        5,600      600    6,200
1/ 1500 Long blade knives, 1500 pick axes, 500 axes, 1700 forks,
1700 mammooties, 1700 shovels, 1500 rubber boots.



BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule
1978/79     1979/80    1980/81       1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      Total
----------------------------------(Million Kyat Equivalent)-----------------------------
Civil Works                   1.9         12.5        20.3         20.2         15.5         14.2         9.5         94.1
Equipment
(a) Construction, O&M,
Agric. Support, ID
Workshops and Offices,
SLRD                     3.9         58.0       47.6         12.9          6.4                                 128.8
(b) Land Clearing                                     5.2         5.2          5.1                                  15.5
(c) Farm Machinery                                   10.4        10.4         10.4         10.7                     41.4
Extension Service, Godown
and Training Center
Operations                    1.0          1.0         1.2          1.6          1.8          1.8         1.2          9.6
O&M of Civil Works            0.1          0.4         0.2                       1.1          2,3         3,2          6.6
MAB Consultants               0.5          2.0         0.5                                                             3.0
AC Overseas Training          0.1          0.4         0.2                                                             0.7
Engineering and Adm.          0.5          5.0         5.7          3.4          2.7          1.9         0.8         20.0  o|
Basic Project Cost         5tO         81.0        91.9         53.7        43.0         30.4        14.7        319.7    F
Physical Contingencies        0.5          5.1         5.9          3.5          2.8          2.0         0.9         20.7
Price Contingencies           0.2          8.0        15.9         13.8         14.4         13.7         8.0         74.0
Total Project Cost (KM)   5.7          94.1       113.7         71.0         60.2        46.1        23.6        414.4
(US$M)  (0.8)       (12.7)      (15.4)       (9.6)        (8.1)        (6.2)       (3.2)       (56.0)



-5O-                      ANNEX 1
T-9
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category                         Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1) Civil works                       12,000,000               60%
(2) Equipment, spare parts
and materials:                    20,000,000
(a) directly                                              100% of foreign
imported                                              expenditures
(b) locally manufactured                                  100% of local
and procured under                                    expenditures (ex-
international                                         factory cost)
competitive bidding
(c) other procured                                        70%
locally
(3) Consultant services                  500,000              100%
(4) Training                             100,000              100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                        1,900,000
TOTAL       34,500,000



-51-
ANNEX 1
T-10
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Credit Disbursement Schedule
Accumulated
Disbursements             Disbursements
(US$ Million)             (US$ Million)
1978/79:  July-Dec                   0.0                       0.0
Jan-June                   0.3                       0.3
1979/80:  July-Dec                   0.4                       0.7
Jan-June                   4.0                       4.7
1980/81:  July-Dec                   4.7                       9.4
Jan-June                   5.0                     14.4
1981/82:  July-Dec                   5.0                      19.4
Jan-June                   3.5                      22.9
1982/83:  July-Dec                   2.6                      25.5
Jan-June                   2.5                      28.0
1983/84:  July-Dec                   2.0                      30.0
Jan-June                   1.6                     31.6
1984/85:  July-Dec                   1.2                      32.8
Jan-June                   1.0                      33.8
1985/86:  July-Dec                   0.5                      34.3
Jan-April                  0.2                     34.5



-52-                                ANNEX 1
T-11
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
ID Typical-/ Annual O&M Cost for Flood Control & Drainage Works
A.  Staff Costs                                                              Average
Monthly   Annual
Personnel                                   Nos.   Salary       Cost
(Kyat)    (kyat)
1.  Assistant Engineer                                  1       800      9,600
2.  Sub-Assistant Engineer                              2       560    13,440
3.  En2ineerinR Survevor                                6       360    25,920
4.  Canal Inspector                                     1       420      5,040
5.  Assistant Canal Inspector                           3       200      7,200
6.  Lower Division Clerk                                1       180      2,160
7.  Store Clerk                                         1       300      3,600
8.  Store Keeper                                        1       200      2,400
9. Peon                                                 I       100     1,200
10.  Durwan                                              1       100      1,200
ll*  Driver                                               1      200      2,400
12.  Labor (rainy season): embankments (52.5 mi)   106           100    63,600
Labor (dry season): (a) embankments (52.5 mi)  53           100    31,800
(b) channels                 76       100    45,600
13,  Channel Revenue Surveyor                            5       360    21,600
14.  Telephone Operator                                  1       180      2,160
15.  Sluice Operators                                    7       100    88,400
Sub-total                                                    247, 320
B.  Materials, Fuel, and Equipment Running Costs
1.  Embankment                     (1% of civil works cost)           24,000
2.  Drainage channels              (1% of civil works cost)           18,000
3.  Staff quarters maintenance  (2% of civil works cost)              22,700
4.  Sluices and culverts           (2% of civil works cost)          125,000
5.  0, M & R on equipment                                             74,800
6.- Consumable stores                                                 20,000
Sub-total                                         284,500
C.  Total for 30,200 ac                                                   531,820
D.  Cost per acre                                                       K 18 per ac
1/ Labutta Island.



-53-
ANNEX 1
T- 12
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
AC Typical Annual 0 & M Cost for One 1,200 ton Farm Inputs Godown
Annual
1. Staff Requirement                         Salary                  Cost
(K)                    ('000 K)
1  Godvwn in charge                        210                      2.6
1  Asst,Godown in charge                  150                       1.8
1  Office Clerk                           120                       1.5
3  Tally & weighing Clerks                120                       4.4
3 Gate Keepers                            100                       3.6
6 Watchmen                                100                       7.2
Sub-total                                               21.1
2. Overhead  (loading  & transportation)
K 3.6 per 100 viss (0.16 6on)                                      30.9
3. Annual maintenance (2% of conatruction
cost and 15% of work facilities)                                   16.0
Sub-total                                              46.9
tOTAL                                                  68.0



BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMVENT II PROJECT
Agricultural Extension & Training
AC Annual Cost of Incremental Agricultural Extension Services for Ten Townships
Proposed
Combined
Paddyland I    Services   Additional
(5 Town-   (J10 Town-   (5 1T-wn-   Monthly   Traveling  Monthly  Total Additional
shlDs)     sships)       hips)      Salary   Allowance   Total    Cost per Year
-- ---(No.7  ----- ------           - -----(Kyats) -----              --('0) -
A. Salary & Allowances
Project Extension Manager                  1         2             1          900         350       1,250            15
Township Extension Managers               5         10             5          710         250        950             57
Subject Matter Specialists                3          8             5          640        285         925             55
Deputy Township Extension Managers        5         10             5          380        225         505             30
VTEMs                                    24         48            24          285         170        455            131
VEWs                                    177        329           152          200         120        320            584
Sub-total                      215        407           192                                                872
B. Operational Costs
Activities (field trials,
demonstrations )                                                                                                  54
Mileage Costs, repaired and
spare parts                                                                                                        120
Diesel Oil and Lubricant                                                                                             96
Office Rent                                                                                                          24
Sub-total                                                                                                  294
C. Additional Annual Cost for Paddyland II (A & B)                                                                   1,166/year
IH3 t!
x: 



-55-
ANNEX 1
T-14
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Farmer's Typical Annual O&M Cost for Small Irrigation Pumps
I tern                                             Cost per Unit
(Kyat)
Fuel 250 gals for operation of
1,000 hours per year                                              875
Average repair cost per year                                        450
Farmers' average transport costs for fuel                            50
Farmers' average transport cost for repairs                          60
TOTAL                                                   1,435
O&M Cost per hour = K 1.45



-56-                      ANNEX 1
T-15
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Present and Future Cropped Areas and Production
Cropped Areas                  Production
Future    Future                Future    Future
Without   With                  Without   With
Present   Project   Project   Present   Project   Project
--------- TrFOO ac)('000 tons) ------
Thongwa
Paddy (R)             44.8       44.8      56.2        27.2      30.0       70.3
Paddy (I)              -          -         6.7         -         -          9.6
Jute                   2.7        1.7       5.1         0.7       0.8        2.7
Groundnuts             0.8        0.8      12.6         0.3       0.4        6.7
Pulses                 0.8        0.8      12.6         0.2       0.2        5.1
Others                 4.1        4.1       4.1         4.6       4.4        7.3
Total Cropped       53.2       53.2     97.3        33.0       35.8      101.7
Land Area           50.0       50.0     59.0
Crop Intensity      107%      .107%    166%
Lower Delta
Paddy (R)             80.6       80.6    116.3        46.1       49.6      137.1
Paddy (I)              -          -        -            -         -          -
Jute                   -          -        -            -         -          -
Groundnuts             0.2        0.2       5.9         0.1       0.1        3.2
Pulses                 0.2        0.2      25.2         0.1       0.1        2.0
Others                 -          -        -            -         -          -
Total Cropped       81.0       81.0    147.4        46.3       49.8      142.3
Land Area           81.0       81.0    116.0
Crop Intensity      100%       1.00%    127%
Project Total
Paddy (R)            125.4      125.4    172.5         73.3      79.6      207.4
Paddy (I)              -          -         6.7          -        -          9.6
Jute                   2.7        2.7       5.1         0.7       0.8        2.7
Groundnuts             1.0        1.0      18.5         0.4       0.5        9.9
Pulses                 1.0        1.0      37.8         0.3       0.3        7.1
Others                 4.1        4.1       4.1         4.6       4.6        7.3
Total Cropped      134.2      134.2    244.7         79.3      85.8      244.0
Land Area          131.0      131.0    175.0
Crop Intensity    103%        103%      140%
(R) - rainfed; (I) - irrigated



-57-                            ANNEX 1
T-16
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Prices Used in the Farm Budget Analyses
(K/ton)
Crops
Ngasein                           660/440*
HYV                               660/440*
Hnanga                            690/460*
Medon                             690/460*
Jute                                1,930*
Groundnut                           4,260
Pulses                              1,560
Fruit, Veg.                         2,300
Inputs
Urea                                  360*
TSP                                 1,240*
MOP                                   600*
Labor
Family labor (K/m-d)                    6
Hired labor (K/m-d)                     6
Animal power (K/pair/day)               9
* GOB controlled prices.



ANNEX 1
BURMA                                              T-17
Page 1 of 3
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Inputs, Labor, and Draft Power Use per Acre
Fruits &
Ngasein   HYV    Hnanga   Medon   Jute   Groundnuts   Pulses   Vegetables
Present
Yield (lbs/ac)            1250      2200    1300       1300    600         900          600       2500
Seed Req. (lbs/ac)          50        50       50        50      10        100           30         50
Fert. Req. (lbs/ac)
Urea                      10        10       15        13      56          5            0         50
TSP                        2         2        0         5      28          7            0          0
MOP                        0         0        0         0       0          0            0          0
Future Without Project
Yield (lbs/ac)            1300      2500    1400       1300    700        1000          700       2500                     0
Seed Req. (lbs/ac)          50        50       50        50      10        100           30         50
Fert. Req. (lbs/ac)
Urea                      10        10       15        13      56          5            0         50
TSP                        2         2        0         5      30          7            0          0
MOP                        0         0        0         0       0          0            0          0
Future With Project
Yield (lbs/ac)            2300      3200    2750       2500   1200        1200          900       4000
Seed Req. (lbs/ac)          40        40       40        40      10        100           30         50
Fert. Req. (lbs/ac)
Urea                      60        90       80        60    168          30           20        100
TSP                       40        60       50        40      56         40            0         50
MOP                        5        10       10         5       0          0            0          0
0
ID, 



ANNEX 1
BURMA                                              T-17
Page 2 of 3
PADDYLAND DEYELOPMENT II PROJECT
Monthly Labor Reguirements (man-days/ac)
Crops                 J       F      M       A       M      J       J       A       S      0       N       D    (Total)
Local Paddy P 1/                                    0.5    9.6    8.0    1.0    2.0    2.0    3.0    9.3    (35.4)
W 2/                                   0.5    9.6   12.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    4.0   10.3    (42.4)
HYV Paddy   P         -       -       -      -       -      2      8      11      4       3      12       5       (45)
W       0.5      -       -      -      0.5    4.0   17.2    7.5    4.0    3.0   11.0    7.4    (55.1)
Improved Local
Paddy      P         -                      -      0.5    9.6    9.0    1.0    2.0    2.0    3.0    9.3    (36.4)
W        -       -       -      -      0.5    9.6    9.0    5.0    4.0    1.0    3.0    9.3    (41.4)
Jute        P         -      4.0    5.0      -      8.0     -      8.0   15.0   14.0       -       -       -      (54.0)
W        -      4.0    5.0   10.0    9.0        -    12.0   25.0   19.0       -       -       -      (84.0)
Groundnuts  P        6.0   23.0    1.0       -       -              -       -       -      -    13.0    5.0    (48.0)
W       6.0   34.0    1.0       -       -       _-                     -      -    13.0    5.0    (59.0)
Pulses       P        -       -    14.0                             -       -       -      -      6.0    1.0    (21.0)
W       1.0      -    19.0      _-          -          -       -       -      -      6.0    1.0    (27.0)
Fruits &    P       10      10     10      10       5       _       -       -       -    25      10      10       (90)
Vegetables
W      15      20     20      15      10       _       -       -    10      20      15      15      (140)  Xa. X
0
1/  Pre-project                                                                                                          w
2/ With-project



ANNEX 1
T-17
BURMA                                               Page 3 of  3
LOWER BURMA PADDY LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Monthly Animal Requirement (1 pr bullock/ac)
Crops                  J       F       M       A      M       J       J       A       S       0       N       D    (Total)
Local Paddy P l/       -       -       -       -     0.5    6.4       -       -       -       -       -      3.0      (9.9)
W 2/      -       -       -      -      0.5    7.4       -       -       -       -       -      4.0     (11.9)
HYV Paddy   P                                                         -       -                       -       -
W         -       =          =          0.5    2.8    4.6        -       -       -      2.0    4.4    (14.3)
Improved Local
Paddy       P        3.0    1.0       -      -       -      0.5    0.4    7.0        -       -       -       -      (11.9)
W        3.5    1.5       -      -       -      0.5    0.4    7.0        -       -       -       -      (12.9)
Jute         P         -      6.0      -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       (6.0)
W         -      6.0      -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       (6.0)
Groundnuts  P          -      1.0      -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      6.0    1.0       (8.0)
W         -      2.0      -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -     6.0    1.0        (9.0)
Pulses       P         -       -      3.0     -       -       -       -       -       -       -      6.0      -       (9.0)
W         -       -     4.0      -       -       -       -       -       -       -     6.0       -      (10.0)
Fruits &    P         3       1       1       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      3       2       (10.0)
Vegetables
W        3       1       1       -       -       -       -       -       -       -     3        2       (10.0) 
1/  Pre-project                                                                                                              
2/ With-project



-61-                                 ANNEX 1
T-18
BURMA
LOWER BURMA PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Farm Budget Estimtes - Thongwa Island
(5 ac Earms)
Medium Elevation       High Elevation             Low Elevation
P            W         P                W       P       w        W
Cropped Area (ac)
Wet season (rainfed)
Ngasein                    1.2   1.0    .2        0.7      0.6      0.1      5.0    5.0    2.5
Medon                      2.2   2.2   2.5        2.5      2.5      2.0      0.0    0.0    2.0
Hnanga                     0.8   0.8   1.0        0.8      0.8      1.5      0.0    0.0    0.0
HYV                        0.7   0.9   1.4        0.9      1.0      1.3      0.0    0.0    0.5
Dry season
HYV                        0.0   0.0   0.3        0.0      0.0      0.5      0.0    0.0    0.3
Groundnuts                 0.0   0.0   1.0        0.3      0.3      2.3      0.0    0.0    0.0
Jute                       0.0   0.0   0.0        0.7      0.7      1.5      0.0    0.0    0.0
Pulses                     0.3   0.3   1.3        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0    1.5
Fruits & Veg.              0.5   0.5   0.5        0.5      0.5      0.5      0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Cropped Area         5.7   5.7   8.2        6.4      6.4      9.7      5.0    5.0    6.8
Overall Intensity (%)    114   114   164          128      128      194      100    100    136
Production and Quota (Paddy)
Baskets (Bkts)l//ac         30    33    65         31       33       66       27      28     58
Quota (Bkts)  2/            30    41   155         34       41      159       19      22    130
Surplus (Bkts)-            121   123   169        121      126      169      117    119    159
Total  (Bkts)              151   164   324        155      167      328      136    141    289
Gross Production Value (k)
Paddy Quota                277   379  1439        316      378    1479       171    199   1197
Paddy Surplue-            1680  1703  2353       1687    1744    2358    1583   1616   2195
Jute                         0      0      0      362      422    1551         0       0       0
Groundnuts & Pulses        125   146  3097        513      570    5249         0       0    376
Others                    1284  1284  2054       1284    1284    2054          0       0       0
Total                     3366  3512  8943       4162    4398   12691    1754   1815   3768
Costs of Input-/
and Draft Power (k)
Paddy                     -656  -651  -982       -669    -674    -971    -576   -576   -928
Jute                         0      0      0      -69      -70    -210         0       0       0
Groundnuts & Pulses        -34   -34  -577       -113    -113    -947          0       0   -191
Others                     -90   -90  -113        -90      -90    -113         0       0       0
Total                      -780 -775 -1672       -941    -947   -2241    -576   -576  -1119
Costs of Labor
Paddy (m-d)                 184  185   247        186      186      248      177    177    233
Jute (m-d)                    0    0       0        38      38      126        0       0       0
Groundnuts & Pulses (m-d)   6    6    94            14      14      136        0       0      40
Others (m-d)                 45   45    70         45       45       70        0       0       0
Total (m-d)                 235  236   411        283      283      580      177    177    273
Of which, Hired (m-d)         0    0       0         0       0      130        0       0       0
Cost of Hiring (k)            0    0       0         0        0    -780        0       0       0
Other Costs (k)
Irtigation Pumping            0    0       0       -8        -8     -23        0       0       0
Land TaK                    -18  -18   -18        -18      -18      -18      -18    -18    -18
NET FARM INCOME (k)           2568 2719  7253       3195    3425    9629    1160   1221   2631
Note:  P = Present, W - Future Without Project, W - Future With Project
1/ One basket of paddy weights 46 lb.
2/ Includes paddy retained by farmer for consumption and seed (about 60 Bkts).
3/ Valued at market price 50% above the procurement price.
4/ Includes costs of fertilizers, pesticides, seed, and contingencies of 25%.



-62-                             ANNEX 1
T-l9
BURMA
?ADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Farm Budget Estimates - Lower Delta Isllands
(10 ac farms)
Bawchaung Island                  Daunggyi Island
P               W                 P       W        W
Cropped Area (ac)
Wet season (rainfed)
Ngasein                       6.2      6.2     1.4               2.9     2.9      2.0
Medon                         3.1      3.1     3.5               7.1     7.1     4.0
HYV                           0.6      0.6     5.0               -        -      4.0
Groundnuts                    0.1      0.1     1.7               -        -       -
Pulses                        0.1      0.1     1.4               -        -      2.5
Total Cropped Area            0.1    10.1    13.0              10.0    10.0    12.5
Overall Intensity (x)         101      101     130              100      100     125
Production & Quota (Paddy)
Baskets (Bkts)l/ ac            29       30      61               28       28      60
Quota (Bkts)                  109      117     373              100      100     365
Surplus (Bkts)2/              176      176     233              180      182     230
Total (Bkts)                  285      296     609              280      282     595
Gross Production Value (k)
Paddy Quota                   997   1,069   3,430               930      934   3,355
Paddy Surplus 3/            2,415   2,453   3,214             2,512   2,549   3,171
Groundnuts & Pulses           213      239   4,757                -        -   1,568
Total                       3,625   3,761  11,401             3,442   3,483   8,094
Costs of Inputs-'
and Draft Power (k)
Paddy                      -1,232  -1,232  -1,824            -1,307  -1,307  -1,817
Groundnuts & Pulses           -48      -48    -878                0        0    -318
Total                      -1,280  -1,280  -2,702            -1,307  -1,307  -2,135
Costs of Labor
Paddy (m-d)                   359      359     480              361      361     471
Groundnuts & Pulses (m-d)    _7          7     138                0        0      67
Total (m-d)                   366      366     618              361     361      538
Of which, Hired (m-d)          89       89     155              101     101      126
Cost of Hiring (k)           -534    -534    -930              -558    -558    -756
Other Costs
Land Tax (k)                  -35      -35     -35              -35     -35       35
NET FARM INC0ME (k)           1,776   1,912   7,734             1,542   1,583   5,168
Note: P - Present, W - Future without project, W - Future with project
1/ One basket of paddy weighs 46 lb.
2/ Includes paddy retained by farmer for consumption and seed (about 60 Bkts).
3/ Valued at market price 50% above the procurement price.
4/ Includes costs of fertilizers, pesticides, seed, contingencies of 25% and irrigation
operating costs, where applicable.



BURMA                                          ANNEX 1
T-20
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Compulsory Paddy Quota Schedule
(baskets paddy) 1/
Yield (baskets/ac)
Sown
Area       20         25         30         35         40         45         50         55
(ac)
2        4          4          4           5          6          6         12         18
5        8         11         30         48         65         83         101        119
8       16         47         80        112        142         174        205        234
10       33         75        117        159         199        241        282        324
12       50        100        150         200        249        299        349        398
15       80        147        215         281        347        414        481        547
18      107        187        268         348        427        507        587        667
20      126        216        307        397        486         576        666        756
25      171        283        396        508         621        733        846        958
30      216        351        486         621        756        891      1,026      1,161
50      396        621        846      1,071      1,296      1,521       1,746      1,971
60         65        70          75         80         85         90         95        100
2       24         30         36         42          48         54         60         66         72
5      137        155        173        191        209         227        245        263        281
8      265        296        328        359         390        421        452        484        515
10      365        407        448        490         531        573        614        656        697
12      448        498        548         598        647        647        747        797        847
15      614        681        748        814         881        948      1,015      1,081      1,148
18      748        828        908         988     1,068      1,148       1,228      1,308      1,388
20      846        936      1,008      1,116      1,206      1,296       1,386      1,476      1,566
25    1,071      1,183      1,273      1,408      1,521      1,633       1,746      1,858      1,971
30    1,296      1,431      1,539      1,701      1,836      1,971       2,106      2,241      2,376                 x
50    2,196      2,421      2,601      2,871      3,096      3,321       3,546      3,771      3,996
Effective October 1975
1/ One basket of paddy weighs 46 lbs.



BURMA                                                                  ANNEX I
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Farm Project Rent Estimates
(Kyat)
Lower Delta Farms (10 ac)                                      Thongwa Island Farms (5ac)
BAWCHAUNG                   DAUNGGYI             HIGH ELEVATION           MEDIUM ELEVATION            LOW ELEVATION
Withoul  With             Without  With             Without  With             Without  With             Without   With
QLuot-  Quota  Tax        Quot 1  Quota  Tsx        Q        Quotal/ Quota  Tax        Quota  ,ax       uLo       Quota  Tax
-075      Q)(-)() (Q)                    (Q-Q) (0)            ()   (QQ) (Qn                  Q)  (g   )       (Q)       (Q  Q-0
A. WITH PROJECT
Gross Income                          13,116   11,401            9,776   8,094            13,430   12,691             9,662   8,943            4,366      3,768
Certain Income (90%)                  11,804   10,260            8,798   7,285            12,087   11,422             8,696   8,048            3,929      3,391
Expenses 2/                           -6,410   -6,410           -5,363  -5,363            -5,745   -5,745            -4,138  -4,138           -2,757    -2,757
Management Allowance  1                 -539      _539            -344   -344               -634      -634              -456    -456            -116       -116
Excess Income                          4,855    3,312 1,543    3,091   1,578 1,513         5,708    5,043   665       4,102   3,455   647   1,056           518  500
B. WITHOUT PROJECT
Gross Income                          4,296    3,761             3,950   3,483             4,588    4,398             3,701   3,512            1,915      1,815
Certain Income                         3,866    3,385            3,555   3,135             4,129    3,958             3,331   3,161            1,724      1,634
Expenses 2/                          -3,476   -3,476            -3,473  -3,135            -2,651   -2,651            -2,191  -2,191           -1,638    -1,634
Management Allowance 3/                  -39       -39              -8       -0             -148      -148             -114    -114               -9          0
Excess Income                            351       130   221        74        0    74      1,330    1,159   171       1,026      856   170        77          0   77
C. PROJECT INCREMENT
Excess Income (Project Rent)          4,504    3,182 1,322    3,017   1,578 1,439          4,378    3,884   494       3,076   2,599   477        979        518  461
Rent Recovery Index (%  d                                 29%                      48%                         11%                       16%                       47%
1/ Entire paddy production valued at private market price 50% over controlled price.
2/  Expenses Include all costs plus rewards for family labor at K 6 per m-d up to the value of certain income.
3/ 10% of Certain Income less Expenses.
i/ (7-Q)/Q.
x



-65-
ANNEX 1
T-22
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
World Market Prices-/
(In Constant Dollars, March 1978)
Present           1985
------- (US$/ton) ---
Rice - 5% Brokens
(fob Bangkok)                                     335              429
Jute - White D.
(fob Chittagong)                                  366              378
Groundnuts Nigerian
(cif Europe)                                      498              504
Urea - 46% N, bagged
(fob Japan)                                       153              208
TSP - 60% P205
(fob US Gulf)                                     120              176
Muriate of Potash - 60% K
(fob Vancouver)                                    58               77
I/ World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department, October 21, 1977.



BURMA
ANNEX 1
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT                    T-23
Inputs and Outputs Economic Price Structure
Muriate
2/                  ~~~~~~of
! / z-    Jute    Groundnuts   Pulses  ,Urea   TSP  Potash
~~~~ ~  --     ---------- (US$/ton) ------------____________
Projected 1985 world market price                                    429       378         504         -        208   176    77
Quality adjustment (%)                                            -30%        -         -10%        -       -       -    -
International Shipping and Handling Differential                    O         0           0        -        +27   +26   +22
Rangoon price per finished unit                                      300      ,378         454         -       235   202    99
Transport and handling costs per finished unit
between Rangoon and project area mills                          -22       -10        +40         -        +11   +10    +9
Processing costs per finished unit                                 - 5?J    -32-/        -4        -         -      -     -
Processing ratio (finished amt./field unit)                        65%      100%         67%       -        100%  100%  100%
Project area wholesale price per field unit                          177       336         328        90%-/    246   212   108
Farmer's handling costs per field unit                             -3       -12          -2         -        +2    +2    +2
Farmgate price per field unit                                        174       324         326       157       248   214   110
1/  World market price for rice,  Rangoon rice price  corresponds to local Ngasein and HYV quality (35-42% brokens).
Medon and Hnanga varieties command about 104% and 102% more, respectively. Farmgate price for paddy.
2/ World market price for shelled nuts, farmgate price for nuts in shells.
3/  Net rice milling costs after deducting value of bran and brokens.  Costs cover full mill operation, margin, and
depreciation.
4/ Jute baling costs after deducting value of cuttings,
5/ Ratio to wholesale price for paddy.



ANNEX 1
T-24
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Average Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
Future Without Project                              Future With Project
Ratio       Marginal                                Ratio       Marginal
Demand/   Opportunity      Total                    Demand/  Opportunity   Total
Demand     Supply       Cost -         Cost        Demand       Supply        Cost!/    Cost
(1,000 m-d)   (M)         (K)         (1,000 K)      (1,000 m-d)  (Z)           (K)      (1,000 K)
Jan                         48          3         3.57            168             252       15          3.87         927
Feb                         75          4         3.61            265            732        43          4.58       2,958
Mar                         70          4          3.60            247            844       50          4.74       3,480
Apr                         41          2          3.56            146            113        7          3.67         406
May                         98          6          3.64            350            174       10          3.76         632
Jun                      1,140         44          5.18         4,950          1,260        48          5.36       5,582
July                     1,077         41          5.09         4,624          2,547        98          7.89      13,967    ?
Aug                        243         14          3.86            893         1,026        60          5.01       4,366
Sep                        300         18         3.94          1,115             721       43          4.56       2,906
Oct                        362         21          4.03         1,362             493       29          4.23       1,904
Nov                        508         20          4.25         1,966          1,791        69          6.21       8,639
Dec                      1,193         46         5.26          5,226          1,786        69          6.20       8,603
Total Labor
Demand (1,000 m-d):                             5,154                                               11,740
Total Labor
Cost (1,000 K)                                 21,316                                               54,370
Average Opportunity
Wage (K per m-d)
Rate:                                                4.1                                                 4.6
Incremental Labor Demand (1,000 m-d):                           6,585
Incremental Labor Cost (1,000 K):                              33,053
Incremental Labor Rate (average) (K per m-d):                     K 5.0
1/ From Annex 1, C-6.



-68-
ANNEX 1
T-25
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Economic Cost Streams
Lower Delta               Middle Delta                Project Total
Project    Operation &    Project    Operation &    Project    Operation &
Cost Y/  Maintenance       Cost v   Maintenance        Cost 1!   Maintenance
- - - - - - - - --            - - - (US$ M) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year 1 (FY 79)       0.3           0.0           0.1           0.0           0.4           0.0
2               5.4           0.0           2.5           0.0           7.9           0.0
3               6.3           0.0           2.8          0.0            9.1           0.0
4               3.7           0.0           1.7           0.0           5.4           0.0
5               3.0           0.0           1.3          0.0            4.3           0.0
6               1.9           0.1           0.9           0.1           2.8           0.2
7               0.8          0. 2           0.4          0.1            1.2           0.3
8-30            0.0           0.3           0.0           0.2           0.0           0.5
1/ Basic project cost, excluding costs of consultants and training, in terms of
March 1978 constant Dollars; SCF = 0.5 (K 15 = US$1.0) applied in converting
local costs into Dollar equivalents.



-69-
ANNEX 1
T - 26
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Economic Benefit Streams
Project
Lower Delta     Middle Delta        Total
US$ M            US$ M          US$ M
Future Net Production Values:
With Project                              20.3             15.3             35.5
Without Project                           -6.8             -5.0            -11.7
Net Benefit                            13.5             10.3             23.8
Benefit Development Streams:
Year 1 (FY 79)                             0.0              0.0              0.0
2                                     0.0              0.0             0.0
3                                     0.0              0.0             0.0
4                                     0.4              0.3              0.7
5                                     1.1              0.8              1.9
6                                     1.8              1.3              3.1
7                                     2.7              2.1              4.8
8                                     3.6              2.8              6.4
9                                     4.7              3.6              8.3
10                                     6.1              4.6             10.7
11                                     7.7              5.9             13.6
12                                     9.4              7.2             16.6
13                                    11.1              8.4             19.5
14                                    12.6              9.6             22.2
15-30                                 13.5             10.3             23.8
l/  In terms of March 1978 constant Dollars.  SCF = 0.5 (K 15 = US$1.0) applied
in converting local elements into Dollar equivalents.



-70-                                                      ANNEX 1
C-1
C-1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
Agency     -
1979           1980            1981           1982           1983           1984            1985
Equipment Procurerient                          ID
AMD        AWARD   DELIVERY
AC
AWARD                            DELIVERY
Farm Machinery Procurement                    AMD                             t    t           t   t  t         t   t  t        t 
Drainage and Flood Protection
Works and Land Clearing
1. Thongwa Island
Embankments               (1.1 Mcyd)       ID    . . . . . .         0.2             0.4            0.4        0.1
Drainage Channels          (3.4 Mcydl      ID       . _               0.4            0.7            0.7             0.7            0.5       0.4
Channel Structures        (29 nos.)        ID   -  - - .              -
O&M Workshops & Bldgs                      ID     -                                  -
Land Clearing              (1i 000 acd    AMD   .       . .  . . .                                                                  _
2. Daunggyi Island
Embankments               (2.9 Mcydl       ID      .                 0.4            0.6            0.7              0.7        0.5
Drainage Channels         (2.1 Mcyd)       ID      .                  0.3           0.5            0.5              0.5
Channel Structures        (27 nos)         ID      .    .,                           -
O&M Workshops & Bldgs                      ID   __. __-_.._
Land Clearing             (23,000 acl   AMD        . .    .. . .                                                                             _
3. Bawchaung Island
Embankments               10.7 Mcyd)       ID                           005         0.15            0.2        0.3
Drainage Channels         (2.5 Mcyd)       ID                            01         02              0.6            0.6             0.6       0.4
Channel Structures        (9 nos.)         ID                 . .  _ .  _
O&M Workshops & Bkdgs                      ID                 . ._  ...
Land Clearing             (5,000 ac)    AMD                    .      _
4. Labutta Island
Embankments                (1.8 Mcyd)      ID                             0.1        0.2             0.2            0.3            0.6      0.4
Drainage Channels          (1.3 Mcyd)      ID                 .          05.         0.15           0.4             04        03
Channel Structures         (13 nos.)       ID                   _       _                                           -
O&M Workshops & Bldgs                      ID
Land Clearing             (11,000 ac)   AMD                      _.  _ . _                                          -
Other Civil Works
ID Workshop (Rangoon)                         ID     _
Farm Machinery Service Stations             AMD                _    _ .       _
Godowns and Training Centers                  AC               _   _  .        _
Agricultural Extension Services               AC    _
MAB Consultants                             MAB
Medium/Long Term Credit                     MAB            . .  .  _                    -
Note:
_     Survey, design, and other preparatory works.
Construction or program action (Figure indicates estimated earthwork in
million cubic yardsl.
World Bank - 19029



C-2: THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS ORGANIZATION CHART
l                                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office of the Minister|
Deputy Minister
Deputy Minister                                                              Livestock, Fisheries
Agicltr                                                                            & Forests      |
Planning & Statistics              Agriculture                       [      State Farms                               Timber        1                   Peoples Pearl
Department                    Department                                Corporation                              orporation                        & Fishery Corp.
Irrigation    I                            Survey                                S   C          1                     Fisheries
Department    J                          Department                                 Salt Corp.                        Department
L    Rettlement &                       Rangoon Zoolo-                        Veterinary & Animal                       Forestry
Land Records                             gical Gardens                         Husbartdary Dept.                       Department
| Project I mplementation|                                                        1
Committee                                                  Livestock Corp.
|   Project Director |t                         c oX
Paddyland I                                        1PreDy reFdr                                                                                            1
Project Unit (PU I)                                  (PU II)                                                              World Bank - 18635



C-3: IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT CONSTRUCTION ORGANIZATION
FOR THE PADDYLAND 11 PROJECT
Irrigation Department
Project Director
(Superintending Engineer)
Executive Engineer - 1
Accounts Officer   -  1
Assistant Engineers - 3
Construction Division                   Construction Division                   Planning & Design Division                   Mechanical Division
Laputta                                 Rangoon                                  Rangoon                                   Rangoon
Executive Engineer                      Executive Engineer                        Executive Engineer                        Executive Engineer
Construction Officers:                   Construction Officers:                Design Officers:                             Mechanical Officer:
Assistant Engineers -  9                 Assistant Engineers -  9              Assistant Exec. Engineers -   4              Assistant Engineers -  5
Assistant Engineers       -  22
Senior Soil Surveyors     -   2
World Bank - 18634



C-4: ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE TRAINING AND VISIT SYSTEM EXTENSION PROGRAM
THE PADDYLAND I AND 11 PROJECTS
AGRICULTURE CORPORA1 ION
| EXTENSION DlVSIOhN
DTEM  - Deput Township Eireesion Manager                                                                                    GENERAL MIANAGER EXT
PEM     Proise_ En -sio- Menayci
SMS   - Tblw   MatiEr,e Sp-ona.ig                              IRRAWADDY DIVISION                                                                                               l  RANGOON DIVISION
VEM   - Village Re,,rsion Manager
VTEM  - Village Township E--te-iion Manager
P   EP-TY "I VISIONAL           PROJECTEXGTEENSION  ||DEPUTY DIVISIONAL  ||DEPUTY DIVISIONAL  ||POETXENI    ||DUTDIVIIeA 
MANGE                  M  ANAE                    MANAGER        |                                             MANAGER                    MA GRkANAGER
EXTENSIO                     PEM                      SUPP LY        |ETENS ION                                                                                           SUPP.E
SMS PLANT PRITNC 
ION~ ~~~~~CL
WAKEMA   l       l  LABUTTA    |        |  N(IAPUDAW  l        l   PYAPON    ]        }   EOGALE        m        MAUBIN        m        KYAIKv            |   KHAYAN    |            1     ;;            |  CHAiTHAN
|   7VTEM    l  l   5VTEM                                    |    3VM lVTE      M          TE                   LTM       l       l 5Th                        yEq      l       l 7IN                        VTEnn              |>
16reld,.t94 1



C-5: CROPPING CALENDARS
Crop              Jan.         Feb.       Mar.        Apr.        May        Jun.         Jul.       Aug.        Sept.      Oct.         Nov.        Dec.
PADDY:
Ngasein
Ngakywe
Hnanga (Irrigated)
HYV (Rainfed)
HYV (Irrigated)
JUTE (Irrigated)
OTHERS:
Groundnuts
Pulses
Fruits & Vegetables
World Bank -18639



-75-                                 ANNEX 1
C-6
C-6: OPPORTUNITY COST OF FARM LABOR
10
9
8
>- 7
0.
-   6
w
U]
(~ 5
0   4
a-
0
3
2
10     20      30     40      50     60      70     80      90    100
LABOR DEMAND AS% OF SUPPLY
World Bank-18637



76ANNEX 2
-76--                   T-1
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Summary Equipment List
Total With
Foreign  Local  Total   Taxes and Duties
-----------(US$ Millions)---------------
A. Irrigation Department
Construction Equipment                   12.4    0.6    13.0          15.1
Equipment for O&M of Civil Works          0.2    0.1      0.3          0.3
Rangoon Central Workshop Equipment        0.5    0.0      0.5          0.7
Office and Survey Equipment               0.3    0.0      0.3          0.3
13.4    0.7    14.1         16.4
B. Agricultural Mechanization
Department
Land Clearing Equipment                   1.7    0.1      1.8          2.1
Farm Machinery and Implements             4.5    0.3      4.8          5.6
Farm Machinery Service Stations           0.1    0.0      0.1          0.1
Transport                                 0.1    0.0      0.1          0.1
6.4    0.4     6.8          7.9
C. Agriculture Corporation
Transport                                 0.2    0.2      0.4          0.5
Miscellaneous                             0.1    0.0      0.1          0.1
0.3    0.2     0.5          0.6
D. Settlement and Land Records
Department
Survey and Office Equipment               0.2    0.0      0.2          0.2
E. Myanma Agricultural Bank
Transport, Office & Traning Equipment   0.0    0.0        0.0          0.0
Basic Total                      20.3    1.3    21.6          25.1
Contingencies                                3.5    0.0      3.5          4.0
GRAND TOTAL                                 23.8    1.3    25.1          29.1



-77-
ANNEX 2
BURMA                                                    T-2
Page 1 of 10
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule
Method
Foreign  Foreign                       of
Unit    Total   Local1/ Total  Procur                 Procurement Schedule-
Item                         Qty      Cost      Cost    Cost-   Cost    ment-    a          b       c     -d       e       f
(US$1,000)  --------
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
Construction Equipment
(Machinery and Transport)
Al.  Hydraulic back-hoe, swamp
(1.5 cu yd)                           26      90.0    2,340   117    2,457    ICB          9/78  12/78  3/79   5/79   7/79  12/79
A2.  Elevating scraper (11 cu yd)            20       76.0    1,520    76    1,596                        VI
A3.  Crawler tractor (300 hp)                 3     190.0        570    29       599      "               i
A4.  Crawler tractor (180 hp)                12     100.0    1,200    60    1,260                  "      "
A5.  Wheel dozer (200 hp)                     2       95,0       190    10       200      "            '         '                      ,
A6.  Motor grader (125 hp)                    2       43.0       86      5        91                             VI
A7.  Mobile crane (10 ton)                    2       42.5        85     5        90      "     11/78   2/79  5/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
A8.  Fuel storage tank (20,000 gal)          12      16.0       192    10        202                      " ,.  ..    ..
A9.  Concrete mixer (14/10 cu ft)            16        5.3        85     4        89      "      9/78  12/78  3/79   5/79   7/79  12/79
1lO.  Concrete mixer (10/7 cu ft)            16        4.2        67      4        71     "         '            " *l     1      I. ..
U1l.  Vibrator with gasoline engine          30        0.4        13      1        14                                     .   * *  *
k12.  Arc welding set                         4        4.3        17      1        18                                    it * t  *
A13.  Gas welding set                          6       0.6         4      0         4            11/78   2/79  5/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
A14.  Bar cutting & bending machine            3       3.7        11      1        12     "         '         - *
A15.  Water Pump (1200 gpm)                    6        5.8       35      2        37     RP       _       _     -       _       _      8/79
A16.  Water pump (300 gpm)                    15       0.6          9     0         9     RP       _       _     -       _       -     8/79
A17.  Sludge pump                              8        1.5        12     1        13    ICB    10/78   1/79  4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
A18.  Generating set (15 kw)                  10        4.4        44     2        46     "      11/78   2/79  5/79   7/79   9/79   2/80
A19.  Generating set (30 kw)                   2        9.0        18     1        19     "         1      "  *   *  t  t
A20.  Low-bed trailer (50 ton)                 2      87.0        174     9       183            10/78   1/79  4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
A21.  Dumper (15 ton)                          6       56.0       336    17       353     "       9/78  12/78  3/79   5/79   7/79  12/79
A22.  Wheel tractor w/tipping
trailer (4 ton)                       20        7.2       144     7       151     RP       -       -      -      -       -    12/79
A23.  Truck (6 ton)                            6       11.0        66     3        69     "        -       -      _      _       -    12/79
A24.  Fuel bowser (1600 gal)                   2       20.0        40     2        42              -       _     _       _       -    12/79
A25.  Water bowser (1200 gal)                  3       12.0        36     2        38     "        _       _      _      _       -    12/79
A26.  Heavy equipment barge                    2      190.0       380    19       399    ICB      9/78  12/78  3/79   5/79   7/79  12/79
A27.  Cargo barge, without motor (40 ton)  8           56.0       448    23       471     "      11/78   2/79  5/79   7/79   9/79   4/80
A28.  Self-propelled barge (100 ton)           1      300.0       300    15       315     "                "      II a           1    7/80
A29.  Work boat (80 ft)                        6       80.0       480    24       504     "      10/78   1/79  4/79   6/79   8/79   4/80
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



-78-                             ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
T-2
Method                      Page 2 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                      of                                     3/
Unit     Total  LocalI/ Total  Procure-               Procurement Schedule-3
Item                    Qty       Cost       Cost   Cost-   Cost    mentSZ    a         b       c      d       e       f
u------ tus$1,000)         
A30.  Outboard motor (45 hp)                  30      1.3          39     2        41    ICB    11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
A31.  Motor cycle                             15       1.0         15     1        16      "        "
A32.  Inspection vehicle                       8       8.0         64      3       67      RP       -       -       -      -       -    12/79
A33.  Diesel outboard motor (220 hp)           5      68.0        340    17       357    ICB    10/78   1/79   4/79   6/79   8/79  12/79
Subtotal  (Machinery & Transport)                       9,360   473    9,833
(Fieldworkshop Equipment & Supplies
for Machinery Maintenance)
A34.  Lathe  (22 in)                           1      27.5         28     1        29      PS       -    11/78   1/79    -        3/79   9/79
A35.  Lathe (16 in)                            1     16.5          16     1        17
A36.  Bench drill (1/4 to 1 in)                1       1.3          1      0        1      "
A37.  Bench dril (1/16 to 1/4 in)             10       0.8          9     0         9      "
A38.  Bench grinder (12 in)                    2       0.6          1     0         1               "
A39.  Wet valve refacer                        1       3.6          4     0         4      "        ""
A40.  Valve seat grinder                       1       1.7          2     0         2      "        "
A41.  Arc welding machine                      2       6.10        12     1        13      "
A42.  Gas welding set                          2       0.4          1     0         1      "
A43.  Compressor (350 cfm)                     1      15.0         15     1        16               "       "
A44.  Battery charger                          1       0.4          1     0         1
A45.  Battery tester                           1       0.1L         0     0         0      "        "       "       "
A46.  Inflator head and gauge                  4       0.0          0     0         0      "        "          "      "    "
A47.  Nozzle tester set                        1       2.4          2     0         2
A48.  Vise (8 in)                              3       0.1.         1     0         1                       "
A49.  Vise (4 in)                              2       0.1          0     0         0      "        " 
A50.  Chain block (5 ton)                      1       0.3          0     0         0      "
A51.  Chain block (1 1/2 ton)                  1       0.1          0     0         0      "
A52.  Portable track pin press (100 ton)   1           6.6          7     0         7      "
A53.  Generator (30 kw)                        1      8.8           9     1        10
A54.  Tap & die sets                           6       0.2          1     0         1      "
A55.  Heavy duty industrial box
socket set                             1       0.9          1     0         1       "       "               "
A56.  Master mechanic tool set                 3       6.6         20     1        21      "
A57.  Basic mechanic tool set                  3       3.3         10     1        11                      '                       "       "
A58.  Tractor tool set                         1       2.7          3     0         3      "
A59. Main workshop supplies                  Lot        -          56     4        60                       "      "
Subtotal (Machinery Maintenance)                          200    11       211
Subtotal, Construction Equipment                        9,560   484   10,044
Subtotal, including spare parts (30%)                 12,428   629   13,057
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



ANNEX 2
T-2
Method                          Page 3 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                      of                                     3/
Unit     Total   Local l/Total  Procure-              Procurement Schedule-
Item                        tu       Cost       Cost         1/t   os     et2                              d      a       f
ItnY2___                           _____                 C1osoot-  Cost    ment2/   a      b       cdef
Equipment for O&M of Civil Works
A60.  Inboard diesel engine (60 hp)            8       11.0        88      4        92     ICE   11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
A61.  Motor boat hull                          8        6.0         0    48        48       RE'     -       -       -       -      -      1/80
A62.  Van pick-up                              2        4.0         8      0         8      RI'     -       -       -      -       -      8/79
A63.  Motor cycles                            10        1.0        10      1        11     ICB   11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79   1/80
A64.  Bicycles                               100        0.1         9      0         9      RI?     -       -       -      -       -      8/79
A65.  Main telephone system (25 phones)        3 sets  3.5         11      0        11      PS      -    12/78   2/79    -        4/79   9/79
A66.  Telephone Extension (10 phones)          3 sets  2.5          8      0         8      PE ;      *
A67.  Telephone cable                          1         -         12      0        12      PS      "       "
A68.  Kerosene Lanterns                      100         -          1      0         1      PS             2/79   4/79    "       6/79  10/79
Subtotal, O&M of Civil Works                             147    53        200
Subtotal, including spare parts (30%)                    191    69        260
Rangoon Central Workshop Equipment
and Supplies
(Machinery Repair and Maintenance
Equipment)
A69.  Shaping machine (14 in stroke)           2        3.0         6      0         6      PS      -     2/79   4/79    -        6/79  11/79
A70.  Shaping machine (8 in stroke)            2        2.5         5      0   S                                   "               I ..
A71.  Steam cleaner                           12        0.3         4      0         4      "       "      "       "
A72.  Gas welding torch                      Lot       18.4        18      1        19      "       '              *
A73.  Fuel filling pump                        4        0.3         1      0         1                 "       '       '
A74.  Fuel tank (underground)                  4        0.5         2      0         2      "      "       w               *
A75.  Air compressor                           2        2.2         4      1         5                     "       "
A76.  Water pump                               6        0.3         2      0         2                     " "
A77.  Fork lift (3 ton)                        2       10.0        20      1        21    ICB   10/78   1/79   4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
A78.  Fork lift (5 ton)                        2       15.0        30      2        32    ICB      "       "       "      "       "       t
A79.  Steel plate rolling equipment            1        0.6         1      0         1     PS      -      2/79   4/79    -       6/79  11/79
A80.  Pneumatic hammer                         2        2.5         5      0         5                 "           "      "
A81.  Heat treatment furnace                   2        4.0         8      0         8  "                  "      "
A82.  Mobile crane                             1       22.5        23      1       24    ICB   10/78   1/79   4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
A83.  Miscellaneous                           Lot       7.5         7      1        8      PS      -     2/79   4/79    -        6/79  11/70
Subtotal (Repair & Maintenance)                          136      7      143
(Hand Tools and Instruments)
A84. Double-ended open spanners
(Metric)                            Lot       11.7        12     0        12      PS     _      1/79   3/79    -       6/79  10/79
A85.  Double-ended open spanners              Lot      10.2        10      1       11      PS      "      "               '
(American)
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



-80-                                               ANNEX 2
Method                          Page 4 of 10
Foreign  Foreign                        of                                     3/
Unit   Total    Local  Total  Procure-               Procurement Schedule-/
Item                      QtY       Cost    Cost       Cost-  Cost    ment/ * a           b       c       d       e       f
-- (US$1,000) -- ---
A86.  Double-ended open spanners(British)Lot             1.2         1       0        1     PS       -      1/79   3/79    _        6/79  10/79
A87.  Double-ended ring spanners             Lot        25.5        25       2       27
A88.  Box sockets (Metric)                   Lot        25.0        25       1       26     "
A89.  Box sockets (British)                  Lot         2.7         3       0        3      "        "
A90.  Screw drivers sets                     Lot         1.6         2       0        2
A91.  Pliers, hamaers, allen keys            Lot         1.2         1       0        1                          "           "
A92.  Wrenches (adjustable & torque)         Lot         1.5         2       0        2               "
A93.  Saws, chisels, feeler and
cylinders gauges                      Lot        1.8         2       0        2              " 
A94.  Clippers and micrometers                Lot        1.2         1       0        1
A95.  Tap and die sets                        Set        8.0C        8       1        9               "       "
A96.  High speed drill sets                   Lot       21.3        21       1       22              "                "
A97.  Portable drills & grinders              Lot        8.7         8       1        9                       "
A98.  Aligning tool and pressers              Lot        1.8         2       0        2  ".
A99.  Wet valve refacer                        2         1.5         3       0        3
100.  Valve seat grinder set                   2         0.5         1       0        1                       "
.101.  Valve spring compressor                10         0.0         0       0        0
.102.  Hydraulic jacks (5 tons,
20 tons & Crocodile)                 20 sets   0.2           3       0        3
.103.  Body jack                               2         0.3         1       0        1               "
.104.  Pulling chain block (3.5 tons)         10 sets   0.4          4       0        4      "
.105.  Spot welding                            2         0.2         0       0        0                       "
L106.  Wheel balancing machine                 1         0.5         0       0        0
L107.  Coil winding machine                    2         0.3         1       0        1      "
108.  Miscellaneous tools                    Lot         5.9         6       0        6
109.  Generator test bench                     2         0.3         1       0        1                               "
L110.  Battery charger                       Lot         2.1         2       0        2                   "           "
Lll.  Pressure gauges                        Lot         1.0         1       0        1      "            "           '
,112.  Tune-up equipment                       1         2.5         3       0        3      "
113.  Diesel fuel pump test bench              2         9.5        19       1       20      "        "
114.  Pump test stand                          2         4.0         8       0        8      "        "
115.  Injector test bench                      2         2.0         4       1        5
a16.  Nozzle analyzer                          2         1.6         3       0        3      "
L117.  Nozzle test master                      2         0.8         2       0        2               "
i118.  Injector reconditioning machine         2         2.0         4       1        5                               "
119.  Nozzle reconditioner                     1         1.2         1       0        1      "           "
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



-81-                                         ANNEX 2
T-2
Method                           Page 5 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                      of
Unit     Total  Local   Total  Procure-               Procurement Schedule3
Item                       t      Cost       Cost   Costl/  Cost    ment2    a          b       c       d       e      f
----------- (US$1,000)     ----
A120.  Nozzle multicleaner                     2      0.8           2     0         2      PS       -     1/79   3/79    -        6/79  10/79
A121.  Nozzle inspection viewer                2       0.4          1     0         1      "        "       "      "       "
A122.  Nozzle cleaning kit                     3       0.4          1     0         1      "        "       "      "
A123.  Diesel engine exhaust analyser          1       1.4          1     0         1      "        "       "              "       "
A124.  Engine spot check kit                   6       0.6          4     0         4              "        "              "       "
A125.  Tool kit P.A. & O.P.A. system           4 sets 0.5           2     0         2      "        "       "       "      "       "
A126.  Fuel feed pump tester kit               3       0.2          1     0         1      "        "       "              "
A127.  Pneumatic governor tester               2       0.3          1      0        1               "       "          "           "
A128.  Wheel alignment set                     2       0.4          1     0         1      "        "
A129.  Electrical continuity tester            2       0.4          2      0        2      "        "
A130.  Oscilloscope & signal generator         2       0.2          0      0        0               "       "              "           "
A131.  Misc. testing gauges & meters          Lot      6.4          6     1         7      "                "       "              "
Subtotal (hand Tools & Instr.)                          212    11       223
(Supplies)
A132.  Welding electrodes                     Lot    12.0          12      1       13      PS       -      1/79   3/79    -       6/79  10/79
A133.  Electrical cables and
winding wires                       Lot      3.0          3      0         3     "        "               "      "       "
A134.  Switches, insulators, and
sheets                              Lot      2.0          2     0         2               "       "      "       "       "
A135.  Milling cutters                        Lot      2.0          2      0        2      "        "       "       ""
A136.  mild steel sheeting                    Lot      5.0          5      0        5      "        "       "       .      .       "
A137.  Crankshaft grinder (misc.)             Lot      1.5          2     0         2               "       "              "       "
A138.  Grinding wheel                         50       0.2         10      1       11      "        "                      "
A139.  Cylinder reboring machine
(miscellaneous)                    Lot      6.0           6     0         6      "        "       .      ..      ..
A140.  Cylinder boring machine
honing stones                        5 sets 0.4           2     0         2           "           "       "      "       "
A141.  Matra surface grinding (misc.)         Lot      9.8         10      1       11
A142.  Welding equipment (misc.)              Lot      4.0          4      0        4
A143.  Cranskshaft rebuilding (misc.)         Lot      6.0          6     0         6      "        "       "       "      "        '
A144.  Grouser & sprocket welding (misc.) Lot    10.0              10      1       11               "       "           "      "       "
A145.  Airconditioning units                  Lot      6.2          6      1        7           "           "              "
A146.  Air exhauster fans                      30      0.1          4      0        4
A147.  Electric motors (1, 2, 3, 5,
10, 25 hp)                          Lot      6.5          7      0        7      "        "       "       "      "
A148.  Anti corrosive spray paints            Lot      5.5          6      0         6              "       "                  "       "
A149. Miscellaneous supplies                  Lot      5.5          5      0        5               "       "       "              "
Subtotal (Supplies)                                    102      5      107
Subtotal, Rangoon Central Workshop                     450    23       473
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



-82-                                             ANNEX 2
Method                               Page 6 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                       of
Unit      Total  Local1, Total  Procure-                Procurement Schedule-
Item                        Qty      Cost       Cost   Cost-   Cost    mentie    a           b       c       d       e       f
---------- (US$1,000)  -
Rangoon Engineering Office
Equipment
(Office Equipment)
A150. Electronic dry copier with
accessories                               4       3.5         14      1        15    PS         -      1/79   3/79    -        6/79  10/79
A151. White printing machines
with paper supplies                     2      8.0          16      1        17     '         "       "       "       "
A152. Electronic calculators
(maths functions)                     50       0.2          10     1         11               "       '       "
A153. Electronic calculators
(all functions)                       10       0.8           8     0          8           "   "  "  *-
A154.  Copying machines (electric)              11        1.2         13      1        14    "          "       "       " 
A155.  Copying machines (manual)                19        0.8         15      1        16    "          "       "               "       "
A156. Electronic stencil copying
machines                               3       3.0           9      0         9    '              "           "       "       "
A157.  Photographic lab equipment                 5      4.9          25      1        26                           "           "
A158.  Airconditioners                          24        0.8         19      1        20    "          "               "
Subtotal (Office Equipment)                                129      7       136
(Survey Instruments)
A159.  Levels                                   60       0.8          48      2        50    PS         -    12/78   3/79    -         7/79   1/80
A160.  Theodolite                                 4      4.5          18      1        19                   "           "       "       "
A161.  Electronic distancer                       2     16.2          32      2        34    "                                  "
A162.  Plane table with alidade                 30        0.9         27      1        28    "          "       ""
A163.  Stadia staves                           100        0.1         10      1        11    "          "       "
A164.  Levelling staves                        100        0.1         10      1        11    "          "       "
Subtotal (Survey Instruments)                              145      8       153
Subtotal, Rangoon Office Equipment                         274    15        289
Total, Irrigation Department                           13,343   736   14,079
B. AGRICULTURAL MECHANIZATION DEPARTMENT
Land Clearing Equipment
(Machinery)
B1.  Crawler tractor (140 hp)                 10      70.0        700    35        735   ICB       11/78   3/79  6/79    9/79  12/79   6/80
B2.  Crawler tractor (100 hp)                 10      50.0        500    25        525    " "
B3.  KG. blade for 140 hp Crawler              5       4.0          20     1         21
B4.  KG. blade for 100 hp crawler              5       3.5         17      1        18
B5.  MA rake for 140 hp crawler                5       6.5         33      1        34                       "
B6.  MA rake for 100 hp crawler                5       6.0         30      1        31
B7.  Heavy duty offset harrow
(16 - 32 in)                           10       5.5          55     3         58      ,         .
B8.  Diesel bowser (1600 gal)                  3      20.0          60     3        63    RP         -       -      -        -       -      6/80
Subtotal  (Machinery)                                   1,415    70    1,485
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



ANNEX 2
-83-                                               T-2
Method                             Page 7 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                     of
Unit      Total  Local   Total  Procure-              Procurement Schedule-
Item                       Qty      Cost              Cost    Cost    mente/   a          b      c       d       e       f
----------- (Us$1,000) --------
(Equipment for Three Field Stations
for Land Clearing Machinery
Repairs)
B9.   Basic mechanic tool set                 9 sets  3.3       30        2        32    PS         -    10/78   2/79    -       5/79   9/79
B10.  Master mechanic tool set                3       6.6       20        1        21 "             "      "
Bll.  Portable arc welder                     3        6.0      18        1        19    "          "      "
B12.  Gas welding set                         3        0.5        2       0         2    "                         "
B13.  Hydraulic Jack (30 ton)                 3       0.4        1        0         1 "            "
B14.  Chain block (3 ton)                     3       0.2         1       0         1                      "
B15.  Chain block (5 ton)                     3       0.4         1       0         1 "
B16.  Vice (8 in)                             3        0.2        1       0         1                      "       "
B17.  Battery charger                         3        2.0        6       0         6 "            "
B18.  Battery cell tester                     3       0.1         0       0         0    "
B19.  Hydrometer                             18        0.0        0       0         0                      "
B20.  AVO meter                               9        0.2        2       0         2   "
B21.  Bench grinder                           3       0.7         2       0         2              "
B22.  Portable grinder                        3        0.4       1        0         1 "
B23.  Bench drill                             3        1.3        4       0         4   "          "       "       '      "
B24.  Portable drill                          3        0.8        2       0         2   "          "       "
B25.  Portable hydraulic track
pin press                            3        7.0       21        1       22   "                          "
826.  Nozzle tester                           3        2.4        7       0         7   "          "       "
B27.  Generator (7.5 kw)                      3        5.0      15        1        16 "                           "       "
828.  Lubricating unit                        3      36.0      108        6       114   "                  "
829.  Steam cleaner                           3       5.0       15        1        16   "                 "                       *
B30.  Puller set                              3       3.0         9       0         9             '        '
B31.  Workshop supplies                       3 Lots   -        34        2        36   "          "      "
Subtotal (Three Field Repair Stations)                300       15       315
Subtotal, Land Clearing Equipment                   1,715       85    1,800
Farm Machinery and Implements
B32. Power tillers (7-8 hp) &
spares (25%)                      1050        3.1   3,280      170    3,450   RP         -       -       -      _       _      7/80
B33. Irrigation pumps (300 gpm, 5 hp
diesel, skid-mounted, suction
hose, foot valve, tools and
fuel cans) & spare parts (30%) 1000           0.8     800      130       930   RP        -       _       _      _       _    7/80
B34. Delivery hose (4 in) &
spares (10%)                     1000         0.2     180       10       190   RP        -       -      -       -       -    7/80
B35.  Hand saws                           1000        0.1       80        4        84   ICB    10/78   2/79   5/79   6/79   8/79  1/80
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



ANNEX 2
-84-                                             T- 2_
Method                            Page 8 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                     of 3M
Uonit     Total  Local   Total  Procure-              Procurement Schedule
Cost       Cotal       a    ost    ment 2/            Pt
____Cos_            Cost        Costl    ot    met2   a    b       c       d      e       f
---        (us$1,000) ------
B 56   Rubber boots                       1500       0.1         75      4        79    PP        -       -       -       -      -      7/80
r     Miscellaneous tools                  Lot        -          15    12         27    RP                                              7/80
Subtotal Farm Machinery &
Implements                                  4,430   330    4,760
Equimen  for the Three Farm
Machinery Service Stations
B38,  Mechanic tool sets                    15       0.1          2      0         2    PS        -      2/79   4/79    -       6/79 10/79
B39.  Nozzle testers                         3       2.4          7      1         8    "         "       "       "
840,  Tap and die sets                        3      0.2           1     0         1    "          "         "       "
B41.  Bench drills                            3      1.3          4      0         4    "         "          "       "
B42.  Bench grinders                          3      0.6           2     0         2    "          "                             ,
B43,  Table vices                             6      0.2          1      0         1    "         "
B44.  Valve seat cutter & grinders            3      1.7          5      0         5              "       "       "
B45.  Portable welding machines               3      6.0         18      1        19    "         "       "
B46.  Fire fighting equipment                 3      4.7         14      1        15    "         "       "       "
B47.  Generator (20 kw)                      3       6.0         18      1        19
B48.  Hurricane lamps                       12       0.0          1      0         1    "         "
B49.  Calculators                             5      0.1           0     0         0              "       "       "
Subtotal, 3 Service Stations                             73     4        77
Transport
B50.  Equipment barge                        1    105.0         105      5       110    ICB    10/78   1/79   4/79   6/79   8/79  1/80
B51.  Marine diesel engine (60 hp)           1      11.0         11      1        12    "         "       "       "      " '1           xl
B52.  Motor boat bull                         1      6.0          0      6         6    RP        -       -      -       -       -
B53.  Small boat with outboard motor          3      2.5          8      0         8    PS        -      1/79   3/79    -       5/79 11/79
B54.  Van, pick-up                            3      4.0         12      1        13    RP        -       -       -      -       -   12/79
Subtotal, Transport                                    136    13        149
Total, Agricultural Mechanization
Department                               6,354   432    6,786
.. AGRICULTURE CORPORATION
Transport
Cl.   Large boats with 100 hp engines         2     30.0         60      3        63   ICB    11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79  3/80
C2.   Hulls for above                         2     15.0           0    30        30    RP        -       -      -       -       -    1/80
C3.   Inboard marine diesel (60 hp)          5      11.0         55      3        58   ICB    11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79  1/80
C4.   Hulls for above                         5     10.0          0    50         50    RP        -       -      -       -       -    1/80
C5.   Country boats, hulls and
5 hp engines                        40      1.5          60    40       100   RP         -       -       -      -       -    1/80
C6.   Four wheel drive vehicles               5      7.0         35      2        37   RP         -       -      -       -       -    1/80
C7.   Motor cycles                            3      1.0          3      0         3   ICB    11/78   2/79   5/79   7/79   9/79  1/80
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



-85-                            ~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
T-2
Method                         Page 9 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                      of                                     3/
Unit     Total  Local 1  Total  Procure-             Procurement Schedule-
Item                     Qty     Cost       Cost   Cost-   Coat    ment/   a           b       c       d      e       f
--------- (US$1,000) ----------
C8.   Bicycles                             100       0.1          7      2         9     RP       -       -      -       -       -      1/80
Subtotal, Transport                                    220   130        350
Miscellaneous
C9.   Audio visual aids (slide
projectors, accessories,
& generator & others)                5 sets 5.0         25      1        26     PS       _    10/78  12/78    -        2/79   6/79
CIO.  Office equipment                     Lot       3.0          3      0         3     "        "       "
Cll.  Research equipment                   Lot       4.0          4      0         4     "        "
C12.  Threshers                             20       1.7         35      2        37     RP       -       -      -       -       -     6/79
C13.  Dryers                                20       0.9         18      0        18                ""                   "       "
C14.  Training center equipment               6 sets 0.5          3    17         20     "        " I                                  9/79
C15.  Godown weighing scale & equip.          6 sets 2.0         12      0        12     PS       _      1/79   3/79    -       4/79   9/79
Subtotal, Miscellaneous                                100    20        120
Total, Agriculture Corporation                         320   150        470
D. SETTLEMENT & LAND RECORDS DEPARTMENT (SLRD)
Survey and Office Equipment
Dl.   Theodolites                            18      4.5         81      4        85     ICB   10/79   1/79   4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
D2.   Plane tables                          75       0.9         67      4        71     "        "         "       "            "
D3.   Optical squares                       75       0.0          2      0         2    PS        -     5/79   7/79    -       9/79   2/80
D4.   Gunter's chain (66 ft)                75       0.0          1      0         1     "        "              "               "
D5.   Gunter's chain (100 ft)               18       0.0          1      0         1     "        "
D6.   Divider                               75       0.0          0      0         0                         "                   "
D7.   Off-set scale                         75       0.0          0      0         0
D8.   Slide rule                            75       0.0          1      0         1    "         "      "       "
D9.   Calculators                           36       0.1          4      0         4    "
Total, SLRD                                            157      8       165
E. MYANMA AGRICULTURAL BANK (MAB)
Transport, Office, and
Training Equipment 4/
El.   Bicycles                               20      0.1           2     0         2    PS-/    -   11/78    1/79    -          3/79   8/79
E2.   Country boats with 5 hp
engines                              5      2.5          13     1        14     ICB/  10/78  1/79    4/79   6/79   8/79   1/80
E3.   Calculators                            10      0.1           1     0         1    PS-/    -   11/78    1/79    -          3/79   7/79
E4.   Calculators                          100       0.0          5      0         5     " "         "           "       "       "     7/79
E5.   Copying machines                        4      2.0          8      0         8                                                   7/79
Note: See page 10 for footnotes.



ANNEX 2
-86-                                          T-2
Method                          Page 10 of 10
Foreign   Foreign                    of                                     3/
Unit     Total  Local1  Total  Procure-             Procurement Schedule-
It-em                    Qty      Cost      Cost   Cost;/  Cost    ment2/   a         b       c      d       e      f
--------- (Us$1,000) --------
E6.  Typewriters                           22       0.2          3     0         3    Ps-/     -    11/78   1/79    -        3/79   7/79
E7.  Slide projectors & screens             2       0.3         1      0         1         "       "           "      "       "
E8. Public address unit (amplifier
microphone, speakers, and
portable generators)                 2      0.5          1      0        1    "         "
Total, MAB                                            34     1        35
1/ Taxes and duties excluded.
2/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding; PS - Prudent Shopping (comparison of 3 quotations),
RP - Reserved for local procedures.
3/ Mo/Yr of key procurement actions given below:
a. Furnishing to IDA the specifications and bid documents for IDA clearance.
b. Issuance of invitation to bid.
c. Opening of bids.
d. Furnishing to IDA the bid evaluation report and award recommendation for IDA clearance.
e. Award of contract.
f. Initial delivery at site.
4/ MAB equipment pending review by the Equipment Control Committee by December 31, 1978.



ANNEX 3
-87-                         Page  1
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Consulting Services for the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB)
Terms of Reference (TOR)
Objective and Scope of Services
1.        MAB would engage about 39 manmonths of consulting services over
a calendar period of about 1.5 years. The consulting services would be in
two phases with the following terms of reference:
Specialists
1.   Organization & Management of Credit Institutions
2.   Agricultural Economist
3.   Financial Analyst (with credit experience)
4.   Training
Calendar      Man-
Period      months
MAB Consultants' TOR - Phase I                  6 months        14
A.   Assist MAB in building up an agricultural development credit
wing within MAB and in particular a planning cell for prep-
aration of medium- and long-term agricultural credit projects
suitable for international financing.
B.   Identify appropriate organizational setup, program objec-
tives, banking criteria and procedures, managerial guide-
lines and staff development requirements for MAB's medium-
and long-term agricultural credit program.
C.   Assist in identifying the appropriate types of expertise,
numbers of staff, banking plan, operating guidelines, lend-
ing terms and conditions, appraisal criteria and loan appli-
cation, supervision, and collection procedures for the first
stages of the medium and long-term credit program in the
Paddyland I and II project areas; and assist in identifying
sources of requisite additional personnel and related train-
ing needs.



ANNEX 3
-88-                        Page  2
D.   Assist in establishing a training program and training unit
within the MAB development credit wing for training field
staff in agricultural medium and long-term credit operations.
E.   Assist MAB in preparing the detailed TOR for the consulting
services for Phase II (below) to prepare a feasibility study
for an agriculturaL medium and long-term credit project suit-
able for international financing.
Calendar       Man-
Period       months
MAB Consultants' TOR - Phase II                   12 months        25
A.   Identify the scope and phasing of a series of agricultural
medium- and long-term credit projects.
B.   Prepare in consultation with MAB a feasibility study for the
first such project in the series suitable for international
financing.
C.   Assist MAB in conducting initial training (training MAB
trainers) for the MAB development credit wing training unit
and in drawing up training manuals.
D.   Assist MAB in drawing up detailed operational manuals and
job descriptions.
E.   Assist MAB in the initiation of lending operations in Paddy-
land I project area townships.
F.   Prepare recommendations for future actions related to carry-
ing out the agricultural lending operations in the Paddyland
I and II project areas and to undertaking additional credit
projects to be assisted by international financing.
Timetable and Reporting Requirements
2.         A team of four specialists should start work on or about April 1,
1979, and provide services within a calendar period of about 6 months for
Phase I, and 12 months for Phase II. The Team Leader should arrive in Burma
about two weeks ahead of the others and should remain throughout the other
members' stay in Burma. The other specialists would visit Burma for shorter
periods according to the area of their specialization.
3.         The consultants would prepare at least an inception report, two
completion reports and a feasibility report (Appendix 1) for a medium and
long-term agricultural credit project suitable for international financing.
A draft Phase I completion report, presenting the consultants' findings and
recommendations should be furnished to MAB by December 31, 1979. This report



-89-                        ANNEX 3
Page 3
should include a draft detailed terms of reference drawn in consultation
with MAB for the Phase II services of each specialist. A draft feasibility
report, covering the points outlined in Appendix 1, should be furnished to
MAB by March 31, 1981. The draft Phase II completion report, which also
should be furnished to MAB by March 31, 1981, should include:
(a) detailed recommendations on further steps to be taken by
MAB related to carrying out the lending operations in the
Paddyland I and II project areas;
(b) operation and training manuals for MAB; and
(c) the scope and phasing of a series of medium- and long-term
agricultural credit projects.
Responsibilities of the Consultants
4.        The consultants' principal responsibilities are given in Appendix 2.
They shall have the administrative support and high level back-up advisory
services which they need to complete their work. In t:he course of the spe-
cialists' work in Burma they shall provide training for mutually agreed
numiber of designated officers from the MAB. The consultants will closely
involve counterpart staff to be provided by MAB with the consultants' work
and formulation of proposals.
5.        The consultants shall make arrangements to provide equipment not
available in Rangoon as required to carry out the investigations. For this
purpose they shall be responsible for notifying GOB oE the import requirements
sufficiently in advance for GOB to complete necessary import procedures.
6.        Each of the specialists will have high qualifications and substan-
tial experience in his field. The team leader will be a senior consultant.
He and most of the other experts will have had significant related experience
in Asia. They will be fluent in the English language.
Responsibilities of the Government
7.        For the purpose of expediting the work for which the consultants will
provide advice and assistance, the government shall undertake the following:
(a) provide full-time professional, technical and support
staff as required to carry out the work and investigations;
(b) assign appropriate professionals and technical staff to
work closely with the consultants as counterparts; these
counterparts who will work closely with the experts will
have sufficient seniority and authority for directing the
carrying out of necessary supporting activities;



-90-                      ANNEX 3
Page 4
(c)  make available to the consultants all existing data, reports
and any other inf.ormation pertinent to completing the investi-
gations; such data, reports, etc., shall be returned by con-
sultants upon completion of their work in Burma;
(d)  provide suitable office space, furnishings and supplies for
the consultants' services;
(e)  provide reasonably furnished living quarters;
(f)  provide in a timetable suitable to the work schedules agreed
with the consultants, mutually agreed transport, equipment,
and supporting services;
(g)  issue in a timely manner all necessary permits and authori-
zations for carrying out the services, including importation
of equipment for the services by the consultants;
(h)  ensure that the consultants' personnel are promptly provided
with any required entry and exist visas, residence permits,
exchange permits and travel documents required for their stay
in the country;
(i)  facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equipment,
material, and supplies required for the services and of the
personal effects of the consultants' personnel;
(j)  exempt from or bear the cost of any taxes, duties, fees, levies
and other impositions imposed under its laws and regulations or
the laws and regulations in effect in its territories or of any
political subdivision or agency thereof, on the consultant and
his personnel (other than personnel who are citizens or permanent
residents of Burma) in respect of:
(i)  any payments made to the consultant or to such per-
sonnel in connection with the carrying out of the
agreed services;
(ii)  any equipment, materials and supplies brought into
Burma for the purpose of carrying out the services
and which, after having been brought into such terri-
tories, will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom; con-
sultants shoiuld be required to furnish a list of such
equipment: etc., intended to be brought into Burma at
least one month before these are shipped to Burma; and



-91-                  ANNEX 3
Page 5
(iii) any property brought into Burma by the personnel of
the consultant for their personal use and which, after
having been brought into Burma will subsequently be
withdrawn therefrom upon departure of such personnel.
Such property may only be sold or transferred to any
person in Burma with the prior approval of the Govern-
ment and in accordance with the rules and regulations
in Burma.



-92-
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Feasibility Report for A Medium and
Long-term Agricultural Credit Project
1.        The feasibility report for the credit project should be prepared to
standards adequate for appraisal by an international financing agency. The
report should cover the following:
(a)  Description of the proposed components of a project suitable
for international financing and the relationships of the
project components within the existing and recommended credit
systems including:
(i) scope
(ii)  timetable
(iii) types of lending
(iv)  volumes lending by type
(v) lending terms and conditions
(vi)  application procedures and review criteria
(vii) loan supervision and collection arrangements
(viii) required transport and facilities;
(b)  Estimated project investment and recurrent costs (operating
costs, losses due to bad debts, allocations for building-up
reserves);
(c) Financing plan (estimated income statements, balance sheets,
and statements of sources and uses of funds);
(d)  Implementation schedules;
(e)  Organization, management and staffing requirements, including:
(i) appropriate types of expertise
(ii)  numbers of requisite staff
(iii)  sources of personnel
(iv)  training needs
(f) Considered alternative project components and their organi-
zational and financial implications;
(g) Project economic feasibility.
2.         The financial cost of the proposals and considered alternatives
should give separately the local costs in local currency and foreign costs
in both foreign currency and in local currency (at the official exchange
rate). The economic feasibility should cover benefits at their estimated
value in line with forecasts of World Market prices.



393_                      ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 2
Page   I
The Consulting Firm
1.        The consulting services of Phases I and II would be provided by four
specialists whose individual terms of reference would include the following:
Team Leader and Organization and Management Specialist:
A senior consultant having substantial experience with agricultural
medium/long term lending institutions in south and southeast Asia.
His main responsibilities would include the following:
(a)  To liaise closely with the Government, MAB and members
of the consulting team;
(b)  To direct and coordinate the activities of the team
members;
(c)  To advise and assist MAB on the establishment and opera-
tion of a medium- and long-term credit program with
responsibility for making recommendations in the follow-
ing main areas:
(i)  organization, management, administrative procedures,
work flows, and job descriptions;
(ii) assessment of staff adequacy and capabilities;
(iii) lending objectives, terms and conditions; appli-
cation procedures, appraisal criteria, loan super-
vision and collection;
(iv) scope and timetable for expansion of lending
activities;
(d)  To prepare training and operational manuals;
(e)  To train MAB staff in areas related to credit management;
(f)  To assist MAB initiate the implementation of the medium-
and long-term lending operations in the Paddyland I and
II Project areas.
Agricultural Economist
Having extensive experience in agricultural credit related to small
scale farming practices, in south and southeast Asia. His main res-
ponsibilities would include the following:



-94-                    ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 2
Page   2
(a) To advise and assist MAB on a medium- and long-term credit
program with primary responsibility for making recommendations
in the areas of:
(i)  farm budget analysis;
(ii)  assessment of credit demand;
(iii) lending objectives, terms and conditions, application
procedures, appraisal criteria, loan repayment and
collection guidelines;
(iv) staff capabilities and requirements in these areas;
(b) To train MAB staff;
(c) To assist in preparing training and operational manuals;
(d) To assist MAB initiate medium- and long-term lending operations.
Financial Analyst
Having extensive experience with institutional credit accounting and
financial controls and esxperience with agricultural credit programs
in Asia. His main responsibilities would include the following:
(a) To advise and assist MAB on a medium- and long-term lending
program with primary responsibility in the following areas:
(i)  appropriate management accounting systems;
(ii)  efficient procedures and financial controls;
(iii) lending terms and conditions, loan repayment guide-
lines, farm budget analysis and loan appraisal
criteria;
(iv)  adequacy and capabilities of staff to implement the
systems, procedures and controls;
(b) To train MAB staff in the techniques of financial analysis
and management accounting;
(c) To assist in preparing training and operational manuals; and
(d) To assist MAB initiate lending operations.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 2
Page   3
Training Specialist
Having experience in south and southeast Asia with institutional
manpower development and training programs associated with medium-
and long-term agricultural credit programs. His main responsibili-
ties would include the following:
(a) To advise and assist MAB in drawing up a manpower plan for
a medium- and long-term agricultural credit program, and
in assessing specific training requirements for staff at
various levels of MAB's development crediLt wing; and
(b) To assist MAB in drawing up an in house training program
for the initiation of medium- and long-terrm lending opera-
tions and continuing staff development thereafter, including
the establishment of a training unit comlprised of MAB staff,
preparation of training manuals and scheduling of a program
of on-the-job training visits at township and village levels.



-96-                            ANNEX 4
BURMA
PADDYLAND DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the File
General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
1.   World Bank, "Burma, Agriculture Sector Review," in two volumes."
Report No. 1680a-BA, August 30, 1977.
2.   World Bank, "Burma, Country Economic Memorandum."  August 24, 1977.
Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, "Burma, Lower Burma Paddyland
Development Project - Phase II," in two volumes. Report No. 32/77-
BUR.ID, August 8, 1977.
2.   Union of Burma, Ministry cf Agriculture and Forests, Irrigation
Department," Minor Irrigation Projects - Thongwa Island Flood
Protection and Irrigation Work," 1972.
3.   FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme," Draft Report of the Burma Irrigation
Project!'
Selected Working Papers
1.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Irrigation Department, cost
estimates, maps, and designs for the Paddyland Development II
Project.
2.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Agriculture Corporation: cost
estimates; agriculture extension program staffing plan; and costs
of cultivation.
3.   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Agriculture Mechanization
Department: farm machinery requirements for the Paddyland Development
II project; pump and power tiller costs; and workshop equipment
estimates.



IBRD 13384R1
ou                                                         +/         ) t  Monyo                                 96'                          JUNE 1978
jHUTANr          >TX          CHINA                                                                                               BURMA
INDIA                                                                                                                     PADDYLAND
DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Isgsbr '2   >..r/ ~   ^)ngub    \              Project Location
BURMA           &,;rk    VIETNAM  5 
This tp has bee  p .relpared by the
Oi  /   0                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World B-nk' staf -enc-Iniy for
or                  N fi 9  )i'-"es,\ <         ,)          HenzadP)  W   >;                            thse nctvtvenen)ceh of the readers of
">                                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hei ,,po to whch it is attahed.
NiTp"'                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The 'd-nOrr,ti-n used and the
\ \?\ 10 \          boundaries shnwn on this ap
_I-IAI.ANd 4tsa o D 0 \   zt                                         *                            do no s    on -th pe; t of the
-i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 ,,.,qk -dd ff1.t, -y''/$t-
rrcBsJQT                                                                      ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~dg.ntnn on the &es esn0
a                              anY teritny or any -nd-r-t
CAMBODIA                                                                                      -f-.fhb-d,
|b            )  :>   
-.nr)ya  -    0                  h       M
Thaboung
n   ct'             -          \    c               I -              E      PrrW*ectEin             Ins
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
Q          .                                            J            XlditJftWrkdwpS tfSleitr-tfLO30. BWo CHAUwNG
N                                                           Mmb,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yeosdMdieDIse$yNc  rs
40~~~~                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  Medw ets  ykoles o t Mofos T a r ep   fr  Pess
j                S                                                             *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Power TdiFees r    trsn T*rneke-s)gtoe
I~~~~~~                                                                                    ~      ~~~ ema  o*Ff i fSrs 4iF
|                                        :                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   AgrsiItihref ExbseysFo.e TrogaHsirg Certes
|                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toeesdsp BospdtrLes
APUTAW O                                                                                               NGWA 20   30   44    50    0    8fO    s
,                             KlltOfTM      ~ ~~ In                                                T    ka;l t.iutnae 
O    Proposed NeW EeD..os,e    A.
- - egft vr DjWorkdv (Majtor r60f frsms
95*  -  -  .   STows  Boundaries
f9-$'.t                                                                                                      _






IBRD 13385RI
JUNE 19l78
BURMA
PADDY LAND DEVELOPMENT I[ PROJECT
THONGWA ISLAND
Typical Middle Delta Area
.L..U.!.......A.Reobrihlor-on of E-isting Emb-nk-ens
/)/  \ @   9Propo*ed N.. En,6onkne
fi \\ * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sl.,ce (Minor)
1     Inlet Regulovor
Proposed Droi-oge Channel
b,.r p,,p, 0. 00 S !  *i is 0,Ld ,                                                                  b R-I-ed
Ando<mo                        ,"s lo 
2    ! 3                                                                                             ,        G 
MILES0
0"  1DP Fn r p rr m W a kJf 2wS sr Mr 3o xnn 4L 5_                 S            )/                 ~      X           /    Xr             /    r
u n d _ l d h w n o l h  m h 4 K It L O Mv E= Ty E v rR F w &S - a   i e >( < ; J          /             g    
~~~~~~~~~JCT SIT#E/Skhon s      / 
~~.A  ,'fJ- ,
I   )   .        4 1       =                 A,                                                             X           /  >\ f\
':                                            AS "   'S As,,   I aW  )0s  ,-~~~ikla






IBRD 13386R1
\    /                     ~~~~~~JUNE 1978
PROPOSED
DELTA PROJECT SITES
B U R M A ~~~                                      ~             ~              DEELPMN CHPROJEC
.                                    R    IaThebyugon o  E   Embon/-    'l
)   - -   PADDYLAND
DEVElOPMENT II PROJECT
/   a    X             <                 \             t   i-                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Labutta Island
/0    -     >     >JTypical Lower Delta  Project A rea
This soar has hasneranaredhy the W/ld .stths staff asc y for the con,t,nof ERatn EtE                                                                  r
of  the<   readerj   of   the    'rado n    to   whi h  ts  attached  The  da t n sed aPds                                     dew     E m b a n k m e n t
/ ,0 4 - - : , & w L : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Minor Sluices
. /ndes ahoset onl this map d _ noA_t mpLon thpa's ofheordBakadeMI    Lond to be ReclEimed
' // < fl ,2 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivfers
.  /                                /   /,/1             ,/          o,       !       ,2  3~~~~~~~~~~0    4  5
;   /                                 ti   f   /            /                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~M -sntSlaonnhs poray.mhatf ^e. WMd w^-k ndie                                                    MILES
affif//rates. any odomant on the /fesI statost of anv tertlory or ony endorsemet ot /
/    acosytaocsohsof uhbcr,ndorret                      { 



