CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 835 BA
Development Credit Agreement
(Paddyland Development II Project)
between
' SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 28, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 835 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1978, between THE SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
Genernl Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Paddyland Development I Agreement" means the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement dated June 21, 1976, between the Borrower
and the Association relating to the Lower Burma Paddyland Develop-
ment Project;
(b) "Paddyland Development I Project" means the Project of
Paddyland Development I Agreement;
(c) "PIC" means the Project Implementation Committee created
under Paddyland Development I Agreement and referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "PU II" means the Project Unit II referred to in Section
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "Project Area" means the seven townships, namely, Bogale
and Labutta which formed parts of the Project Area of Paddyland
Development I Project, and Maubin, Kayan, Kyauktan, Kyaiklat and
Syriam; and


﻿-2-
(f) "ten townships" means the Project Area and the townships
of Ngaputaw, Pyapon and Wakema.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-four million five hundred thousand dollars
($34,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1986, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1988, and ending June 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on Jupe 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause its Myanma
Agricultural Bank to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be drawn
in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the Project
Implementation Committee (PIC) ests>lished under the Paddyland
Development I Agreement, which shall direct, supervise and
coordinate policy and administrative matters involved in the
implementation of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project
Unit II (PU II) under PIC, parallel to the existing Project Unit
established under Paddyland Development I Agreement. PU II shall
be responsible for the technical planning and field execution
of the Project. PU II shall consist of senior technical officers
from the Borrower's Irrigation Department, Settlement and Land
Records Department, Agriculture Corporation, Agricultural Mechani-
zation Department and Myanma Agricultural Bank. The senior tech-
nical officer from the Irrigation Department shall serve as the
Project Director of PU II.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) adopt a Training and Visits Program in consultation with
the Association for the extension services in the ten townships;
(b) appoint and maintain adequate experienced and qualified
staff for the said extension services according to a schedule
agreed with the Association; and


﻿-4-
(c) ensure that all staff members of the said extension
services work full-time on activities directly related to agricul-
tural extension work in the said townships and are provided with
adequate funds and transportation to carry out their duties.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall increase the staff for its
Irrigation Department according to a schedule agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate prevision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the PIC to establish
a project monitoring unit to carry out benchmark surveys by
January 31, 1979, and follow-up surveys by January 31, 1981 and by
January 31 at every three years thereafter through year 1994, of
the cropped areas, yields and use of farm inputs in the Project
Area.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the


﻿-5-
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that land in the
Project Area be allotted to: (i) farmers who are totally or
partially displaced by the civil works of the Project; (ii)
farmers who have not been allotted land or have been allotted
sub-economic holdings; and (iii) state farms and coopera-
tives.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause its Agricultural
Mechanization Department to charge for the repair and maintenance
of all farmers' equipment at such rates in the Project Area
as shall be sufficient to cover the cost of the operation,
maintenance and depreciation of the Agricultural Mechanization
Department's workshops and machinery.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall provide long-term and
medium-term credit to farmers in the Project Area, for the
purchase of bullocks, farm machinery, implements and spare
parts.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for review
the following matters in respect of the agricultural credit to be
provided to farmers for the purchase of part of the equipment
under Part B (iii) of the Project:
(i) terms and conditions of the credit to be provided;
(ii) procedure of the application for the credit;
(iii) criteria for the approval of the credit; and
(iv) guidelines for the supervision and collection of
credit so provided.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIC, by
December 31, 1978 and by December 31 of each year thereafter
through 1994, to make estimates of and report to the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests and the Association on satis-
factory requirements for each respective ensuing fiscal year
(commencing April 1 through March 31) for new seeds, chemical farm
inputs, farm implements, farm machinery and spare parts, and fuel
and diesel oil in the ten townships.
(b) The Borrower shall make or cause to be made timely
distribution of the supplies and services mentioned in Section
3.13 (a) to all parts of the ten townships.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall periodically review and, if
necessary, revise its paddy pricing &ystem so as to ensure that
farmers in the Project Area have adequate financial incentives to
make the investments necessary to increase production.
Section 3.15. In the event that the existing compulsory paddy
procurement system is modified or abolished, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain arrangements in consultation with the
Association for the recovery of the capital and operation and
maintenance costs of the Project.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall cause its Irrigation
Department to establish and equip a unit for the operatior and
maintenance of the flood control and drainage facilities and the
respective related interior hydrologic gauging stations on each of
the four islands in the Delta Area prior to the completion of
civil works thereon.


﻿-7-
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall sell pumps, power tillers
and chemical farm inputs to farmers in the Project Area without
limiting the use thereof to the cultivation of any particular
crop.
Section 3.18. The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities of the Project to be efficiently operated and pro-
perly maintained and shall promptly make available adequate
funds to its implementing agencies and departments for the
purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause separate accounts
in respect of each component of the Project to be maintained by
its respective implementing departments and agencies and shall
cause PIC to collate such accounts and to: (i) have such accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied by the Director General, Central Accounts Office, acting
on behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors of the Borrower;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
copies of the summary of such unaudited accounts, and not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) PU II has been duly established;
(b) the Project Director of PU II has been duly appointed;
and
(c) five executive engineers from the Irrigation Department
and one project extension manager for the Rangoon Division from
the Agricultural Corporation, have been duly assigned to work
under PU II.
Section 5.02. The date October 26, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for.Planning and Finance or the
Deputy Minister for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U. H1a Shwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1                                         r
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    12,000,000      60%
(2) Equipment, spare               20,000,000
parts and materials:
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             100% of local
factured and                             expenditures
procured under                            (ex-factory
international                            cost)
competitive
bidding
(c) other pro-                                70%
cured locally
(3) Consultant services               500,000      100%
(4) Training                          100,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                     1,900,000
TOTAL     34,500,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decrea.ses or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borro! #er, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated she,-fall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to anott r Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 12 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve and protect existing
cultivated areas and reclaim abandoned paddylands in the Project
Area. The Project will replicate the Paddyland Development I
Project in the Irrawaddy and Pegu Deltas. It will consist of the
following parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
(i) Construction and rehabilitation of about 255 miles
of minor earth embankments, and about 220 miles
of drainage channels;
(ii) Construction of about 57 concrete gated pipe drain-
age culverts, about 21 reinforced concrete channel
drainage sluice structures and about 52 interior
drainage channel crossings;
(iii) Clearance and reclamation of about 50,000 acres
of abandoned and waste lands;
(iv) Improvement and expansion of the central workshop
of the Irrigation Department in Rangoon, and
construction in the Project Area of four building
complexes for the operation and maintenance of
project works;
(v) Construction of three service stations for repair-
ing of farm machinery;
(vi) Construction of six godowns for storage of
fertilizer; and
(vii) Construction of six training centers for extension
and research.
Part B:   Equipment, Spare Parts and Materials
(i) Provision of equipment, spare parts and materials
for construction and operation and maintenance
of drainage and flood control civil works;


﻿- 14 -
(ii) Provision of equipment for Irrigation Department
workshops and offices;
(iii) Provision of about 1,000 small irrigation pumps,
and 1,050 power tillers and accessories, including
spare parts, for sale to farmers;
(iv) Provision of land clearing equipment and equipment
for the three service stations constructed under
Part A (v) above;
(v) Provision of transport and equipment for extension
and research activities;
(vi) Provision of transport and office equipment for
the Myanma Agricultural Bank; and
(vii) Provision of survey and office equipment for the
Settlement and Land Records Department.
Part C:   Extension Services
Strengthening of extension services by the Agriculture
Corporation in the Project Area, including provision of a program
of overseas training for the staff of the said extension services.
Part D:   Agricultural Development Credit Program
Establishment of an agricultural development credit program
for the Myanza Agricultural Bank for medium- and long-term
agricultural credit, with the assistance of about 39 man-months
of services by consultants whose responsibility shall include
assistance in the preparation of a feasibility study for an
agricultural credit project suitable for external financing and
assistance in staff development for the agricultural development
credit program.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1985.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, contracts for the purchase of
equipment, spare parts and materials shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment, spare parts and materials and groupings thereof
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 may be
acquired in accordance with the normal procedures of the Borrower
after quotations from at least three independent suppliers have
been obtained and compared. Procurement under these procedures
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,500,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods e,cept those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 16 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burma may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Socialist Republic of the Union of
Burma equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 17 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works shall be carried out by force account by the
Borrower.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, spare parts and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
tho furnishing to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the furnishing to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


