Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4000-Y--
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$55.0 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
PETROLEUM RESOURCES JOINT VENTURE P'IOJECT
May 6, 1985
Thi document hau a rstrided distribudto and may be ued by reciplents only in the perfrmance of
their offidal dude  Us contents mny     otherwise be dsdwed without Wodd Bank athoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 15.31
Rs 1          = US$0.065
FISCAL YEAR
Government and OGDC
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BD         barrels per day
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
DCER       Directorate General for Energy Resources
DGG        Directorate General for Gas
DGPC       Directorate General for Petroleum Concessions
EEC        European Economic Community
ENERPLAN   Office of Energy Planning
CDP        Government of Pakistan
KESC       Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
MNBtu      million British thermal units
MMCFD      million cubic feet per day
MPNR       Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
Mw         megawatt
OGDC       Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PMDC       Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
POL        Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPL        Pakistan Petroleum Limited
SGTC       Sui Gas Transmission Company
SNGPL      Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd.
TCF        trillion cubic feet
TOE        tons of oil equivalent
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PETROLEUM RESOURCES JOINT VENTURE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:             Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC)
Loan Amount:             US$55.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:        The Government will onlend about US$35.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan to OGDC for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at a rste of 14Z per
annum. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
and interest rate risks.
.Project Description:    The project aims at accelerating the exploration for
and development of Pakistan's Petroleum resources
within the framework of recent policy initiatives,
notably a revised gas producer pricing policy, and a
clarification of the balance between the public and
private sectors. The project consists of: (a)
exploration/appraisal work in two areas under on-
going joint ventures, and under new joint ventures
and (b) technical assistance to strengthen the tech-
nical and administrative capabilities of the Ministry
of Petroleum and Natural Resources. The principal
benefit is the (unquantifiable) likelihood of further
discoveries of hydrocarbon reserves. While the
project involves risks that are common in petroleum
operations, such risks are considered low in the
context of the joint ventures featured in the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without iFC authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost. 1/
Foreign      Local       Total
-US$ million…--
North Potwar Concession
Exploration Wells                                24.0          6.0       30.0
Appraisal Wells                                  28.8          7.2       36.0
Infrastructure                                   14.2         10.8       25.C
Sub-total                                    67.0        24.0        91.0
Badin Concession
Geological and Geophysical Surveys                9.8          1.1        10.9
Well Drilling                                    40.0          4.0       44.0
Production Facilities                             6.1          4.8       10.9
Infrastructure                                    8.5          6.5       15.0
Sub-total                                    64.4        16.4        80.8
New Joint Ventures
Seismic Surveys                                   4.4          4.4        8.8
Well Drilling                                    31.1         16.9       48.0
Well Testing                                      0.2          0.2         0.4
Feasibility Study                                 0.6          0.3        0.9
Sub-total                                    36.3        21.8        58.1
Technical Assistance                                2.0          1.0        3.0
Base Cost                                       169.7        63.2       232.9
Contingencies:  Physical 2/                  19.9         8.1        28.0
Price                      14.6          6.8        21.4
Total Project Cost                              204.2         78.1      282.3
1/ Includes $2 million duties and taxes.
2/ 20Z for the New Joint Ventures, 10% for all other items.



-iii-
FinjanSin  Plan
Foreign      Local       Total
…--------USW million--…--
Private Oil Companies                             117.03       44.60       161.63
OCDC                                                 -         16.70        16.70
Covernment                                         32.17       16.80        48.97
BRRD                                               55.00         -          55.00
204.20      78.10       282.30
Estim&ted Disbars.ments:
-----US$ million
IBRD      FY86      FY87     FY88
Annual                                                     19       24        12
Cuauaative                                                 19       43        55
Rate ot Return: N.A.
Appra*LAI Rwart:  N.A.
MAP: 9Ru 18860



-1-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A PETROLEUM RESOURCES JOINT VENTURE PROJECT
.
1.      1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, for the equivalent of US$55.0 million to
help finance a Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project. The loan will have
a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. About US$35.0 million of the proceeds will be on-lent to the
Oil and Gas Development Corporation and will have a term of 15 years, with
three years grace period, at a rate of 14% per annum. The Government of
Pakistan will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20, 1985)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was IuLerrupted in
FY84 due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances,
and the carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP growth slowed to
3.5% as a result of a 6.2% fall in agriculture value added caused by adverse
weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by 8.3% and services by 6.2%.
Fixed investment rose by 6.5%, while private investment increased by 11.52.
National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a result of a drop in private
savings. Public savings remained low reflecting reduced Federal and
Provincial budget surpluses. Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely
by foreign exchange inflows), increases in world prices and reduced agricul-
tural output, contributed to inflation above 9%, as against 5.2% in FY83.
Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues increased by
20%, largely through improved tax administration, but current expenditures
also increased reflecting higher allocations for economic and social
services. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the achieve-
ment of creditable growth in FY84 points to a considerable resilience of
Pakistan's underlying economic structure, which is partly the result of
recent Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the
economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84, relative to the marked
improvement in FY83. The current account deficit at US$1 billion was almost
double that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lover remittances were the main
contributing factors. With cotton and yarn exports much reduced by the poor



-2-
cotton crop, exports rose by only 1.6Z, while imports increased by 6.9X.
Remittances, which declined for the first time in FY84, fell by 5.1Z.
Moreover, recent projections suggest a decline in net migration, which is
likely to lead to lower remittances over the medium term. The higher current
deficit, together with low net capital flows, led to a reserve drawdown of
US$113 million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were
US$2.4 billion at end FY84, equivalent to 3.8 months of imports of goods and
services.
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate interest
from the economy and has announced that the process will be completed by July
1985. All transactions will be based on new financing modes consistent with
Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commitments will be honored and
transactions with foreign governments and financial institutions will not be
affected. At this stage, it is difficult to determine with any certainty the
potential costs of Islamization. Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in
converting the system, but whether long-run efficiency is affected will
depend on how the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded
cautiously and, while fully committed to the elimination of interest, has
stressed that new financing modes will be applied flexibly and developments
monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from the
improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83). Growth
in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing (10.4%), exports
(11%) and private investment (6.7%), though below Plan targets, was well
above rates achieved during FY70-78 and very respectable compared to other
LDCs.  Growth during this period - coupled with increased remittances -            4
benefited large segments of the population. Improved performance took place,
despite a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a "Z'% decline
in the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant requirements for increased defense and refugee assistance
expenditures.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Governmpnc bank
borrowing, which stood at 8.8X and 4.3% of GDP in FY79, fell to 6.4% and
1.7%, respectively by FY83. Reduced levels of Government borrowing from
banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower money supply
growth and lessened inflationary pressures; inflation dropped from 8% to 5%
by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance was largely
the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance.
Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely
kept pace with population growth and development expenditures declined rela-
tive to CDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public
savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of
GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong
export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of GNP to 2% by the



-3-
end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in the
commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached record
output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency. Subsidies on
pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices were raised to
reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were adjusted to bring
them closer to world prices.  Provincial allocations for operations and
maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water charges.
Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufacturing invest-
ment grew by 1O.9Z p.a. Areas open to the private sector were widened, most
agricultural processing units were denationalized and sanctioning limits
increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental
in encouraging manufactured exports, while import liberalization increased
the availability of raw materials and capital goods. In energy, measures
were taken to accelerate the development of domestic resources, rationalize
prices, and improve policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represert welcome
steps toward the solution of problems which are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further wide-
ranging measures to address structural issues are necessary. Two issues are
critical to Pakistan's long-term growth prospects: (a) the need to increase
the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage
export expansion and efficient import substitution. To sustain high economic
growth, Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities and strengthen its neglected social
base. The latter has fared badly as a result of resource constraints and is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators which lag seriously behind those of
other developing countries at comparable levels of development. Increases in
public investment and recurrent allocations will not be possible without a
major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although reform of indirect
taxation through the introduction of a broad-based sales tax should receive
priority, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of subsidies and
increased self-financing by public enterprises will also be required. Given
the more constrained outlook for official assistance and the iikelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. Improved trade performance will
require a continuation and strengthening of the structural adjustment process
in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy. Both agriculture and
industry have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of
efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can make a major contribution to the
reduction of energy imports.



-4-
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; average yields remain low by world standards and those of progres-
sive farmers within Pakistan. Increasing agricultural productivity and
diversification will require strengthened institutional support, appropriate
pricing policies, and the identification and implementation of the core
investment program. More effective institutional support should be sought
through improvements in the quality and quantity of services to farmers.  In
particular, strengthening the seed program requires more efficient seed
multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector
plants and a greater role for the private sector.  The delivery of agricul-
tural credit needs to be improved to ensure it actuallv reaches smaLl farmers
and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Marketing costs need to be
reduced together with a strengthening of research and extension services.
Agricultural pricing policies shouLd ensure appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multi-crop approaches to pricing should
complement the single crops, cost-of-production approach currently used.
Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is needed to
reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities. Programs
that are low-cost and yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especiallv between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the supply
of physical infrastructure.
11.     Increasing and diversifying Pakistan's manufactured export base and
encouraging efficient import substitution will depend, to a large extent, on
a rationalization of industrial incentives to reduce both the level and
dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective should be to
increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposilg protected
producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-export bias
inherent in the present incentives system. In addition, reform of Government
regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing is also
required. The Government should limit sanctioning to a few cases of
strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the private
sector, which is better able to assess investment opportunities. Cost-plus
pricing arrangements, which provide insufficient incentives to minimize costs
or allocate capital efficiency, should be replaced by market-oriented
approaches which better reflect supply/demand conditions and provide adequate
incentives for reinvestment and operational efficiency.
12.     In the energy sector issues need to be addressed in three broad
areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institutional
strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation program, as well
as other investments in the sector, have not been based on a long-term least-
cost development plan. Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints
and persistent power shortages, the Government should ensure that future
investments conform to such a plan and that a core investment program is
insulated from uncertainties inherent in the budgeting process. The present



-5-
gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to
provide adequate incentives to attract private sector exploration. Consumer
gas prices, which were maintained artificially low to encourage the substitu-
tion of gas for imported oil, have resulted in a considerable distortion of
relative prices and uneconomic use of gas. The Government's policy is to
increase gas prices to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 and since
1982, price increases have averaged 15% p.a. in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon thereafter
as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below long-run mar-
ginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure
efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also to
mobilize additional funds to meet the substantial resources required by the
power investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue efforts to strengthen energy planning and
policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulated a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development which included an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan will be 9%
lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic resource
mobilization. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health and agriculture, received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a pre-defined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; too many projects are
initiated and projects that should receive priority are underfunded. In
order to address this issue, Government has announced the re-introduction of
a Three-Year Priority Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has
emphasized that the adoption of a rolling medium-term program does not mean
plan strategies and priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are
considered inevitable. The Program will identify sectoral core investment
programs which will be given priority in formulating annual plans. By
protecting priority investments, especially in key areas, the effectiveness
of the public investment program would be enhanced and priorities sharpened.
14.     Despite the temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework set in motion during the Fifth Plan, which the Government
intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's credit-
worthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing.
At the end of calendar year 1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding
the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$2 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance, to other
biLateral and private lenders. In 1983, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's



-6-
external public indebtedness was 15.3% and in external debt service was 7.0%.
Bank projections indicate that, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service would
remain below 15% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher
levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN 1/
15.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in most sectors
of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors, over a
20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water resources
of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to
Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 28Z for industry including
import program credits; 18% for transport, telecommunications and public
utility services; 14Z for energy including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 5% for social programs in education, population and urban
development; and 5% for structural adjustment lending and technical
assistance.
16.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support
the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and impLement policy
reforms in three sectors--energy, industry, agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment process in the economy. At the same time and in order
to ensure that the gains from adjustment are sustained in the long term and
shared more broadly, the strategy also includes investments in phy-ical
infrastructure and the social sectors (education, population etc.) which have
been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts. To succeed, this strategy
requires a flexible deployment of the full range of traditional instruments
of Bank support - sector work and active policy dialogue, policy and project
based lending, technical assistance and aid co-ordination. The Bank Group's
lending program comprises two components. The larger project-based component
supports specific high priority investments in productive sectors and physi-
cal and social infrastructure. The smaller but strategic component focusses
on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy,
relying heavily on high quality economic and sector work. The strategy
includes a series of technical assistance credits to finance studies and
formulate action programs for policy reform. The experience with the first
of these has been extremely positive. Through the annual Country Economic
I/ Part II is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P-3940-PAK (Fourth WAPDA Power Project) dated February 13, 1985.



-7-
Memorandum, we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium members
of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid requirements, which
coupled with increased co-financing should enhance the policy relevance and
effectiveness of other official aid and help attract additional resources to
Pakistan from non-concessional sources.
17.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy. The Bank and
the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a strategy which
underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the objective has been to
increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of
the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and longer
term expenditures, rationalization of input and output prices, marketing,
improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role
for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from
irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research and extension and have
included institution building components. Overall, progress in agriculture
has been satisfactory.
18.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment in Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the
private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The industrial
reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector in
order to promote export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives; deregulation; efficiency
of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and improvements in the credit
delivery system. Projects have included lines of credits to DFCs and other
financial intermediaries which has been mainly for the private sector, total-
ing US$488.5 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. As
of March 31, 1985, IFC has made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises total-
ing US$191.24 million of which US$179.91 million was by way of loans and
US$11.33 million by equity participation (these are shown in Annex II).
While individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the
agenda for overall reform in industry remains formidable.
19.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to expand
domestic supply from all energy subsectors while simultaneously increasing
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation and
other demand management measures. No less central have been efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the Bank has assisted
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation and transmission; the
sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin
Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In oil and gas, the Bank



-8-
has financed operations which support a sound exploration and development
program and has assisted in the development of the extensive gas transmission
system. Smaller operations, mostly of an engineering and technical assis-
tance nature, have supported coal exploration, energy audits and oil
refining. Despite much progress, howe'rp., the Bank will need to continue its
participation in institution building in concert with efforts to assist the
Covernment mobilize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs,
co-financing, and greater private sector participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focussed both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assests. Operations have also focussed on strengthening the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highways agencies. iowever, recent analysis has identified transport
infrastructure as a critical constraint to over-all growth, due in large
measure to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future the balance
between new investments and operation and maintenance and among various modes
will need to receive greater attention.
21.    With an over-all literacy rate of only 25Z, a population growth rate
of about 3%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable development
agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has supported the Government's
progr&ms in education through five credits totaling some US$62.5 million
designed to upgrade primary, post secondary and higher technical and agricul-
tural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural
extension agents. The focus has and will continue to be on the lower end of
the education system (primary, secondary, technical and non-formal education
including literacy) A first population project designed to expand demand for
population control services was approved in FY83. In the urban and water
supply sector, the Bank has financed four projects. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are addressing, among other issues, improved local
resource mobilization and cost recovery, improved planning and efficiency of
resource utilization; and urban management especially at the Provincial and
Municipal levels.
22.    With respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved in
June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant reforms in
government  avelopment planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energv and industrial sectors. The loan was fully disbursed at
the end of FY83 and achieved significant progress ir. the above areas. In the
next few years, continuing support to the structural adjustment process is
envisioned under sector loans.
23.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1985. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid



-9-
turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the
Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
24.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are being
appraised. These include projects for power transmission and generation;
coal development; lines of credit for industrial finance for the private
sector, industrial subsector restructuring, balancing and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, agricultural inputs and services; primary and informal
education; telecommunications; urban development and water supply. In addi-
tion to a recently approved energy sector loan, sectoral loans which would
support further structural adjustment in industry and agriculture are being
discussed with the Government. Where successful, these sector loans would
provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To assist the
Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
in specific cases is justified.
25.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and for the
co-ordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The
work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the
three key sectors, and physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
A. Energy Sector
26.     Sustained high economic growth over the long run depends critically
on both accelerated development of the substantial domestic energy resources,
and measures to limit the growth of energy demand. On the supply side,
development of domestic resources has been held back by inadequate producer
prices and internal cash generation, ineffective planning and resource
allocation, and institutional weaknesses including arrangements for mobi-
lizing private capital and management. Further development of domestic
energy resources will thus require further adjustments in sectoral pricing,
planning and institutions. On the demand side, the Government buffered
consumers from the higher cost of imported energy during the 1970s by pricing
domestic gas and electricity at levels substantially beLow their economic
cost. Adjustments in the consumer prices of petroleum products were
initiated in 1978 and by early 1983 the weighted average price was about 150Z
of the border prices. While consumer prices of electricity have been peri-
odically increased, consumer prices of gas, however, were not increased until
1980 and even then at a substantially slower pace than for petroleum
products. Little progress has been made in improvir.g the efficiency of gas
and electricity users. The net effect has been that acute shortages of both
gas and electricity emerged during the last two years of the Fifth Plan
(FY79-83) and have continued under the Sixth Plan.



-10-
27.     In recognition of these problems, Government accorded high priority
in the Sixth Plan to restructuring the energy sector; the allocation to
public sector energy programs increased by 1201 in real terms over the Fifth
Plan, and amounted to fully 381 of total planned public sector outlays. More
important still, the Government has continued the pricing adjustments
initiated in the Fifth Plan and has taken several important policy initia-
tives to promote the achievement of the Sixth Plan objectives. Beginning
with the design of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) (Ln. 2166-PAK/Cr.
1255-PAK) in 1981/82, the Bank has had an increasingly fruitful dialogue with
Government on the energy sector and project lending has accelerated, in
petroleum and power through pipelines, refineries and coal; some of these
projects also included elements of policy change. Most recently, the results
of the continuing dialogue have led to a proposed Energy Sector Loan, which
is being processed concurrently with the proposed project.
B. Oil and Gas Subsector
Petroleum Production and Reserves
28.     The main petroleum-producing regions in Pakistan are the Potwar and
Lower Indus Basins. Oil production has been historically small, stagnating
for several years at about 10,000 barrels per day (BD). Over the past few
months, however, production has increased sharply to about 27,000 BD or
almost 25% of domestic oil requirements. Until recently, most of the oil
production came from the Potwar basin. Due to recent discoveries in the
Badin block, however, around 50% of oil production now comes from the Lower
Indus Basin. This balance may shift again in a few years since the Badin
area, although more prolific, has much lower reserves than the Potwar area.
29.     Proven, recoverable crude oil reserves are estimated to be a modest
95 million barrels. Individual fields are generally small and new dis-
coveries are unlikely to be Large. Details on recent discoveries and proven
oil reserves, and on production by field, are summarized in Annex IV.
30.     Gas production is significant, increasing rapidly over the past
decade at 9% per annum and by FY84 reaching 347 billion cubic feet, equiv-
alent to about 54 million barrels of oil or 34% of commercial energy supply.
Gas demand is expected to continue growing rapidly and to exceed supply by a
wide margin unless major new discoveries are made and brought into
production.
31.     Total original recoverable reserves are estimated at 18.7 trillion
cubic feet (TCF), and remaining proven reserves are 14.9 TCF. Sui and Mari
account for 60% of total proven gas reserves. The Oil and Gas Development
Corporation (OGDC) made one significant gas discovery in 1977 at Pirkoh,
which is now producing 42 million cubic feet per day (MMCFD); it also dis-
covered the Dhodak gas-condensate field in 1976. Recent gas discoveries
include Panjpir and Nandpur (OGDC), and Dabhi and Golarchi (Union Texas).



-11-
Lack of agreement on a gas producer price has significantly delayed the
development of the Golarchi gas field. Field locations are indicated on the
attached map (IBRD Map No. 18860).
32.     Several marginal fields with poor-quality gas were discovered during
the 1950s, none of which were developed because of the low heating value of
their gases and relatively small size of their reserves. The economics of
developing these dormant gas fields, however, have now changed in view of
increased net oil imports and the gas supply/demand imbalance.
Petroleum Prospects
33.     The geology of Pakistan is conducive to the generation and accumula-
tion of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, for which the probability of
discovering additional reserves is high. More than a dozen prominent struc-
tures in the gas-prone foothills belt are untested, and six one-well gas
discoveries have not been fully evaluated. Oil prospects, on the other hand,
have until recently been considered more elusive. The majority of known oil
fields were in the Potwar basin, where small field sizes, difficult drilling
conditions and high development costs have discouraged international oil
companies to commit to large exploration programs. The recent discoveries in
northern Potwar and Badin, however, should create new interest in these
areas.
34.     Northern Potwar.  The 1983 Occidental Petroleum discovery at Dhurnal
may confirm that the oil potential in the northern Potwar area is larger than
previously expected and that oil can be found in economic quantities in
formations older than the ones drilled so far. The experience with Dhurnal
also showed that the knowhow brought in by private oil companies was
necessary. Although the wells are expected to be good producers, the struc-
ture is not yet fully delineated and the maximum sustained production from
the field is not yet known. If production is to expand, continued
exploration/appraisal, rehabilitation of old infrastructure and construction
of new facilities are required.
35.     Badin.  In the Lower Indus basin, the geologic evidence suggests that
oil, as well as gas, should be generated. The recent discoveries of the
Tando Alam field by OGDC and of four other small fields by Union Texas were
important because they confirm that oil generation did take place outside of
Potwar and that an economic exploration program in Badin was possible.
Although the remaining reserves are low, drilling conditions are easy,
development costs are low and the fields, though short-lived, are very
prolific. The search for oil in Badin will require considerable additional
seismic work and drilling to properly evaluate the potential.
36.     The Sanghar block (north of Badin and held by OCDC) appears to have
the same oil potential as the Badin block as evidenced by Tando Alam. The
block, however, is too large for OCDC to develop alone. Exploration and
development could be accelerated, as in Badin, if Covernment/OGDC open the



-12-
block and enter into joint ventures with qualified international and/or
domestic oil companies acting as "operators".
37.     Petroleum Exploration Legislation.  The investment framework for
attracting private risk capital for exploration is flexible and appropriatep
except for gas producer pricing (paragraphs 41-43). The financial terms
provide for crude oil to be priced at world prices less a domestic market
discount (usually 10-40x) agreed with the investor before exploration
comences. To ensure flexibility of terms, the Government leaves the work
comitment, discount and participation percentages to be negotiated on a
case-by-case basis. Recent attempts to promote increased oil exploration by
private companies have met with some success in the Badin and North Potwar
concessions, where 11 partially delineated structures, previously retained by
OGDC for future drilling, were offered to the private sector on reasonable
terms. A basin study and renewed promotion effort financed by the Bank under
the recent Petroleum Exploration Project (Ln. 2351-PAK) is underway and will
result in an action program for more rigorous promotion of open and OGDC-held
acreage. Government intends to continue efforts to attract private expLora-
tion investment in open areas as well as to consider "farm-ins" to OGDC
acreage on appropriate terms. In particular, the Government plans to under-
take new efforts to seek joint venture partners, especially in areas where
gas discoveries have already been made, once the new gas producer price
formula (paragraph 43) is announced.
Subsector Organization
38.     The Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) was established in
1961 as the government-owned statutory corporation responsible for engaging
in and promoting petroleum exploration and development, and representing
Covernment's interest, and/or taking a direct interest itself, in joint
venture operations with international oil companies. Through successive
operations, the Bank has assisted Government in defining a clearer role for
OGDC as a minority partner in joint ventures and as an operating company
moving increasingly into gas production. As part of its dialogue, the Bank
has emphasized that further steps need to be taken to induce OGDC to promote
acreage to private oil industry through joint ventures, while continuing to
play a limited but still important role in exploration and production commen-
surate with its financial and managerial capabilities.
39.     In terms of private sector activity, two international oil companies
(Occidental Petroleum and Union Texas) are actively exploring for petroleum
under joint venture concession agreements with OGDC and the Government.
Three Pakistani majority-owned private sector companies currently involved
in oil and gas production are Pakistan Petroleum Ltd (PPL), Pakistan
Oilfields Ltd (POL) and Fauji Foundation.



-13-
Subsector Issues
40.     Accelerating the exploration for and development of petroleum
resources, thereby reducing future dependence on imported energy, is criti-
cally linked to Government's progress in resolving three important issues:
(i) establishing an adequate gas producer pricing policy for attracting
private investors; (ii) clarifying the role of OGDC vis-a-vis the private
sector in a way that optimizes OGDC's own investment activities while mobi-
lizing additional capital from private investors with minimum risk to public
resources; and (iii) strengthening the weak administration of the petroleum
subsector.
41.     Cas Producer Pricing.  Petroleum concession terms provide an adequate
basis for oil exploration. An important gap, however, is the absence of an
acceptable gas producer price policy that would induce investors to step up
the level of exploration activity in gas-prone areas. In view of the serious
gas shortages and the higher probability of finding more gas than oil, this
omission is serious. In 1981, the Bank addressed this issue in the context
of the SAL I (Ln. 2166-PAK/Cr. 1255-PAK) by arguing that newly discovered gas
be priced at fuel oil parity since gas will directly reduce the need for fuel
oil in power generation, leaving taxation as a means of sharing profits with
the State, as is the case for oil. At that time Government felt unable to
accept the proposal and instead proposed a modified cost-plus formula (cur-
rent gas producer prices are presented in Annex IV). The Bank indicated at
the time that this approach was unlikely to be acceptable to investors since
the rate of return would be too low to justify exploration risks, the com-
putation of the formula is ambiguous and investors would be unwilling to
leave the determination of the base price until after a discovery is made.
42.     More recently, the Bank has proposed that newly-discovered gas be
priced at fuel oil parity less a discount to be negotiated for each conces-
sion area before exploration begins, thus putting the pricing of gas on an
identical basis to pricing of new oil. The Government has now agreed to
modify the pricing formula by creating a direct link between the producer
price for gas and the international market price of fuel oil, but was con-
cerned about ensuring that the level of gas producer prices remain in paral-
lel with the level of consumer prices, which under SAL I agreements should
reach two-thirds of the border price of fuel oil by 1988.
43.     The Government therefore proposed a new formula in which the price
paid to the producer for pipeline quality gas will equal 662 of the interna-
tional price of fuel oil at main consumption centers, adjusted for the trans-
mission cost of gas from the field to these centers, less a percentage dis-
count to be negotiated and agreed in the Concession Agreements before com-
mencing exploration. While a formula 1 .sed on full fuel oil parity is
preferable, a producer price with a ceiling equal to 66% of full parity is
judged adequate to provide the required incentive to private investors,
provided that the percentage discount is negotiated reasonably. The discount
wouLd vary from area to area and take into account the geological risk and
location, anticipated exploration and development costs, market conditions
and cost of production. It is the Government's intention to negotiate dis-



-14-
counts that achieve the basic objective of stimulating accelerated explora-
tion by private investors. The new price formula would apply to all non-
associated gas from concessions signed on or after September 30, 1985. The
Government would, under the proposed Energy Sector Loan, make an announcement
of the revised policy and ensure that it is widely publicized in oil industry
circles. In addition, Governmnent intends to keep the operation of the
revised price formula under review.
44.     OCDC Core Investment Program.  In its policy dialogue with
Government, the Bank has consistently recommended that the exploration and
development of petroleum resources could be best achieved through a mixed
strategy of joint ventures with local and foreign investors, service con-
tracts and OCDC-implemented operations. With the geophysical work (5 seismic
parties), field development (4 fields), and the drilling operations (8 rigs,
to be shortly increased to 12) underway throughout Pakistan, OCDC is cur-
rently at the limit of its technical and managerial capacity mainly stemming
from its inability to recruit qualified staff in sufficient numbers.
45.     In recognition of these constraints, OGDC has outlined a core program
of priority activities for the period FY86-88. OGDC's core investment
program consists of three main elements: the first covers the appraisal and
development of fields to be undertaken by the Corporation using its own
internally generated funds and Covernment allocations; the second covers
exploration and development activities to be undertaken under existing joint
ventures; and the third involves new joint ventures in prospective areas for
whicb further efforts would be made by Government to mobilize privace sector
participation. OGDC would concentrate its efforts on the following: the
development of oil and gas fields at Toot, Pirkoh, Dakhni and Tando Alam,
smaller investment projects such as Rhodo and Sari/Hundi in strongly gas-
prone areas, and a modest-sized exploration program which gives pri:rity to
potentially high-yielding prospects in the vicinity of the Tando Alam dis-
covery and important gas prospects such as Loti. The joint venture com-
ponents of the core investment program are designed with a view to sup-
plementing OCDC's technical capabilities and mobilizing resources for
exploration and development. The component of the core investment program
covering the existing joint ventures would involve OGDC's non-operating
interest as minority parcner in Badin and North Potwar, with financing
provided by the Bank under the proposed project to cover OGDC's foreign
exchange share. The component covering the new joint ventures are yet to be
firmed up; however, resources have been earmarked under the proposed project
to finance OCDC's share of any prospective agreements. The implementation of
this core investment program would fully absorb the Corporation's technical,
managerial and financial resources. The program is viewed as the most effec-
tive strategy for enhancing OCDC's performance and for minimizing the risk to
public resources. The Government is in agreement with this balanced strategy
between the private and public sector, as reflected in the 3-year core
investment program for OGDC. These developments represent important progress
in the Bank's sector policy dialogue with Government.



-15-
46.     Strengthening of Subsector Institutions.  Energy sector management is
fragmented, thus hindering efficient planning and effective policy
implementation. Three federal ministries (Petroleum & Natural Resources
(MPNR), Finance and Planning) are involved in different aspects of energy
policy formulation. Energy pricing decisions are submitted for approval to
the Ministry of Finance, and in the case of major decisions, to the Economic
Coordination Committee of the Federal Cabinet. The unwieldy organizational
structure of ministries with conflicting interests and views, and the large
number of organizations involved both at the policy and implementation level,
make resolution of complex policy decisions difficult. The parallel Energy
Sector Loan addresses sectoral institutional issues; this project addresses
administrative weaknesses of MPNR in particular.
47.     MPNR is responsible for planning and policy-making for oil, gas and
coal. There is a shortage of skilled manpower for investment planning and a
lack of familiarity with industry practices within the MPNR. Negotiations
of concession agreements are unduly prolonged, thereby frustrating the
efforts of oil companies interested in acquiring exploration acreage to
obtain useable information on which to base their offers. The Directorates
General for Oil, Gas and Petroleum Concessions need to be strengthened if
MPNR is to play a more active role in promoting the country's petroleum
potential and concluding agreements with investors. This is being addressed
under the proposed project.
The Bank's Role
48.     The Bank Group's involvement in the petroleum subsector spans three
decades. The focus of Bank lending was initially on gas pipelines to support
the development of the Sui gas field and the creation of a modern domestic
gas industry. Recent operations include an engineering loan for upgrading
refinery capacity (Ln. 2218-PAK, approved in December 1982), a fifth loan for
system expansion to Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. (SNGPL) (Ln. 2324-PAK,
in July 1983), and two loans discussed below to benefit OGDC. In addition,
IFC has made five loans in the petroleum subsector.
49.     The Bank's operations with OGDC started with approval in December
1978 of the Toot Oil and Gas Project (Cr. 867-PAK), the aim of which was to
increase oil production from the Toot field and to strengthen the implementa-
tion capacity of OGDC which was expected to play an increasingly important
role in the sector in the aftermath of the first oil price increase. Despite
prolonged drilling difficulties, the eight planned wells were completed, five
as producers; however, lower-than-expected well productivities led to
incremental production that was considerably lower than appraisal expectation
but was still sufficient to yield a satisfactory economic rate of return.
Importantly from an institution-building standpoint, there was significant
progress in strengthening OGDC's technical performance over the last two
years of the project, which was substantially completed in December 1982. In
addition, OGDC's managerial performance began to improve during 1982 follow-
ing implementation of some of the findings of a management study completed in
1981 under the project. A second Toot Oil and Gas Project (Ln. 2374-PAK) was
approved in December 1983, to increase further oil and gas production as well



-16-
as to continue strengthening the technical and managerial capabilities of
OGDC, especially in the area of reservoir management. Well drilling is
proceeding on schedule, and a detailed financial management action plan has
been implemented. A further operation, the Petroleum Exploration Project
(Ln. 2351-PAR), was approved in October 1983 to revive gas exploration,
identify new oil and gas prospects, and subsequently stimulate the interest
of private oil companies by promoting prospective areas. Implementation has
started well; the first two wells were spudded in December 1984, and the
regional seismic program is on schedule. Finally, a fifth project for SNGPL
(Ln. 2324-PAK), which was approved in October 1983 and whose implementation
is currently underway, played a key role in evolving a medium-term gas
development plan; this project has also helped in mobilizing export credit
financing on very favorable terms and marks the first successful effort of
its kind in a Bank-financed oil and gas project.
50.     The Bank's recent project lending operations for oil and gas, in
conjunction with structural adjustment lending, have addressed policy,
institutional and management issues that have an important bearing on the
furthe: development of the petroleum subsector.  Since 1981, the Bank has
made an important contribution to improving gas consumer pricing policies,
strengthening natural gas investment planning, taking preliminary steps
towards encouraging increased private sector participation, while strengthen-
ing the technical and managerial performance of OGDC. Despite the sig-
nificant progress achieved, several important issues remain to be addressed
and resolved if the objectives of the Sixth Plan are to be achieved. The
Bank is in agreement with these objectives and intends to use its lending
operations in energy and petroleum to support the Government's strategy.
Specifically, the Bank's participation in the proposed project is aimed at
the following main objectives:
(a) supporting and monitoring the implementation of a revised gas
producer pricing policy, which is being introduced in the context
of the parallel Energy Sector Loan, by supporting ongoing and
promoting new joint venture agreements with private investors;
(b) focussing OGDC's operations on a core investment program that
minimizes OGDC's and the Government's exploration risk and is
comensurate with its implementation capabilities; and, in
parallel, encouraging increased foreign and domestic equity
investment in both exploration and development of oil and gas;
(c) enabling OGDC over the next few years to increase its financial
and managerial autonomy by strengthening its self-financing
capabilities which would progressively reduce its dependence on
budget transfers to finance its investment program; and
(d) strengthening the planning and administrative capabilities of
the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources.



-17-
51.     The proposed project has been designed to address directly these
objectives as foLlows: the new gas producer pricing policy will apply to alL
of the new joint ventures included in the project; financing of new joint
ventures will be contingent on the Government/OGDC seeking a private partner
to act as operator; and the technical assistance component directly addresses
the need for institutional strengthening within the Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources. More broadly, the proposed project is one of a series of
overations aimed at pursuing in progressively greater depth the policy
frainework being addressed in the proposed Energy Sector Loan by supporting
the specific implementation of the policy reforms adopted by Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.     The proposed project was prepared by the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation and the Directorate General of Petroleum Concessions, Ministry
of Petroleum and Natural Resources, with assistance from three petroleum
concession holders (Occidental Petroleum, Union Texas and Pakistan Oilfields
Limited) and Bank staff and consultants. It was appraised in Januaryf
February 1985. Negotiations, held in Washington, D.C. were completed on
April 24, 1985; the Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Ejaz A. Naik,
Secretary General, Economic Affairs Division, Government of Pakistan. No
Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared due to the confidentiality of much
of the information received in analyzing this project. However the Bank's
technical staff, including a geologist and a senior petroleum engineer, have
reviewed all information available on the Project to date and are satisfied
that the design of the Project is technically sound. A supplementary data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives
53.     The main objective of the project is to accelerate the exploration
for and development of Pakistan's petroleum resources. The principal means
selected to achieve this objective are:
(a) supporting Government/OGDC as a non-operating partner in existing
joint ventures, as well as in new joint ventures which are
expected to result from the implementation of recent policy
initiatives, notably a revised gas producer price policy;
(b) implementing a core investment program which focuses on OCDC's
efforts on priority activities within its technical and
managerial capabilities and which includes exploration and
development investments in new joint ventures for which increased
private sector participation would be mobilized, as well as in
existing joint ventures; and
(c) strengthening the technical and administrative capabilities of
the three Directorates Ceneral of the Ministry of Petroleum and



-18-
Natural Resources particularly in their relations with private
investors.
The proposed project is an integral component of both OCDC's and the
Government's investment program that has been agreed to in the context of the
proposed Energy Sector Loan.
Description
54.     The project would consist of:
(a) exploration/appraisal and construction of relevant infrastructure
in (i) the north Potwar block, under an existing joint-venture
concession agreement; (ii) the Badin block, under a two-year
extension of an existing joint-venture concession agreement; and
(iii) explorationiappraisal in the areas covered under New Joint
Ventures to be entered into by Government/OGDC; and
(b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural
Resources.
55.     The North Potwar Exploration License covering an area of 435 sq.
miles (approximately 1,126 sq. km.) in Punjab is held jointly by Government
(25%), OGDC (20%), Attock Oil Co. (5%), Pakistan Oilfields Limited (5Z) and
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (45%). Occidental is the "Operator" of the
concession, and has the overall responsibility for implementing the agreed
programs under the general guidance of an "Operating Committee" made up of
the representatives of the shareholders. So far three major prospects have
been identified, and the testing of the first (Dhurnal) resulted in a very
promising oil discovery. Currently the partners are in the proces. of
delineating the Dhurnal oil discovery. Although the existing oil and gas
transmission pipelines are being used to handle the current test production,
these are very old and cannot be depended on for sustained production at
higher rates. This project component therefore includes (i) the drilling and
completion of two exploration and three appraisal wells to test and
confirm/delineate the identified petroleum prospects in the exploration
license areas; and (ii) the construction/rehabilitation of the required oil
and gas infrastructure, including field facilities, transmission pipelines
and gas processing plants.
56.     The Badin Exploration License covers an area of 3,402.4 sq. miles
(approximately 8,812 sq. km.) and is located in Sind. The license is held
jointly by Government (40%), Union Texas Petroleum Corporation (30%), and
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (30').  Union Texas is the "Operator," and
the operating arrangements are similar to those for North Potwar (paragraph
55). The terms of the exploration license have recently been extended for
two years to April 20, 1987. The geology of the Badin area is verv different
from the North Potwar where large structures with extremely difficult drill-
ing conditions are dominant. Instead, in the Badin area, petroleum prospects
present themselves as small fault blocks at shallow to medium depths. Well
drilling is straight-forward and fast and well productivi.ies are high.



-19-
However, reserves are small and the production declines to sub-commercial
rates within a relatively short period (4-5 years). During the last four
years, two oil fields (Khaskeli and Laghari) and one gas field (Golarchi)
have been discovered in the Badin area. Three oil discoveries made in 1984
(Dabhi, Nari and Tajedi) are yet to be delineated, and some 20 identified
prospects to be drilled. Oil and gas infrastructure is virtually
nonexistent.  This project component provides for (i) geological and
geophysical surveys to further delineate prospective structures; (ii) the
drilling and completion of about 47 exploration/appraisal wells; and (iii)
the construction of oil and gas infrastructure such as transmission pipelines
and gas processing plants.
57.     Exploration/Appraisal in New Joint-Venture Areas would include
exploration and appraisal activities in areas such as Potwar, Sanghar
(located north of Badin), the dormant gas fields (including Uch) and other
prospective acreage where Government/OGDC would enter into joint ventures
with qualified oil companies acting as "Operators." At present
Government/OGDC are in the process of negotiating joint ventures with several
foreign oil companies. The scope and costing of this project component is
based on the assumption of a typical Potwar basin joint-venture exploration
program where Government/OCDC's share would be about 40Z, and includes
geological and geophysical surveys and the drilling of about five
exploration/appraisal wells.
58.     The Government institutiors responsible for policy formulation and
implementation in the petroleum subsector continue to be weak due to lack
of resources, qualified personnel and familiarity with industry practices.
This, in turn, has a detrimental impact on the implementation of the
Government's sector development strategy. Currently consultants financed
by the Bank under the ongoing Petroleum Exploration Project (Ln. 2351-PAK)
are studying the requirements for training, expatriate services and office
technology and are expected to submit their recommendations by mid-1985.
This project component which will be detailed when the consultants' recommen-
dations are at hand includes the technical assistance in the form of
training, consultancy services and provision of data processing facilities
required to strengthen the technical and administrative capabilities of the
Directorates General of Oil, Petroleum Concessions and Gas of the Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources. The Government would prepare and submit
consultant's terms of reference, requirements for training and specification
of data processing facilities for the technical assistance component that are
satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 5, Part B.1, 2 and 3 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost
59.     Total project cost is estimated at US$282.3 million, -:ith a foreign
exchange component of US$204.2 million (73X). Duties and taxes amount to
US$2.0 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at 1OZ of base costs
for all components except the New Joint Venture Component estimated at 20Z to
take account of the still undetermined character of the activities to be
included under this component. Costs have been calculated in 1985 prices,



-20-
with price contingencies on foreign costs of 6.25 for FY86, 7.75Z for PY87
and 8X thereafter; and on local costs of 6.5Z for FY86 and FY87 and 6X
thereafter. The total net-of-tax project cost is estimated at US$280.3
million. Taking into account the aforementioned physical and price contin-
gencies the distribution of the foreign exchange costs of the project is as
follows:
(US$ Millions)
Private
Government    OGDC    Sector      Total
North Potwar Concession        20.14        16.11    44.30      80.55
Badin Concession               31.05          -      46.53      77.58
New Joint Ventures               -          17.47    26.20      43.67
Technical Assistance            2.40          -         -        2.40
53.59       33.58   117.03    204.20
Financing
60.     The Bank loan of US$55 million would finance 272 of the total foreign
exchange requirements of US$204.2 million and would be equal to 19.5% of the
total project costs. The Government/OGDC share of foreign exchange require-
ments would be US$87.2 million. The Government would on-lend about US$35
million of the US$55 million of the Bank loan to OGDC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to finance its participation in the project at an interest rate of
14%. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
OGDC would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The proposed Bank loan would finance 100% of OGDC's foreign
exchange obligations for their share (20%) of the North Potwar Concession in
FY86, FY87 and FY88, and 100% of OGDC's foreign exchange obligations in the
new joint ventures where their share of the operation is expected to be 40%.
The loan would also fund 41Z of the Government's foreign exchange obligations
for its share (25%) of the North Potwar concession and its share (402) of the
Badin concession in FY86, FY87 and FY88. The Government has stated that they
will use US$2.4 million from existing grants to finance the technical assis-
tance component of the project, leaving a balance of about US$30 million to
be financed from its own foreign exchange resources (Section 3.01(b)(ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The private oil companies would provide US$117.0
million, equivalent to 57% of total foreign exchange requirements, of which
40% is for the Badin concession, 38Z for the North Potwar concession, and 22%
for New Joint Ventures. In the distribution of foreign exchange costs of
each of the project components (North Potwar, Badin, New Joint Ventures) each
party would be responsible for financing its own share of costs based on the
percentage of ownership of the joint venture. Of the total local currency
requirement of US$78.1 million Government would finance US$16.8 million, OGDC



-21-
US$16.7 million and the private companies US$44.6 million. Government/OCDC
would annualiy submit to the Bank for review annual financial plans for each
joint venture (Schedule 5, Part B.8 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.     The above financing arrangements do not include any commercial
borrowing.  There are institutional, project-specific and country considera-
tions that argue against commercial borrowing at this time. At present OGDC
is not in a position to raise funds for cash calls on the strength of its
balance sheet. WhiLe OGDC's financial situation has improved considerably
over the past 12 months, due largely to more realistic prices and increases
in production, its medium and longer term financial viability nevertheless
depends on the successful development of promising discoveries whose long-
term production potential still remains to be confirmed; it is therefore not
realistic to expect OGDC to raise funds from commercial sources. In terms of
project considerations, although the various components of the project are
expected to contribute significantly to the supply of oil in Pakistan over
the next 5 to 10 years, none of them is sufficiently large to generate an
export surplus which might make "project financing" feasible. The private
companies involved in the various joint ventures intend to finance their
share of equity or cash advances from parent companies; they are not prepared
to provide financing for OGDC (or Government) which are to meet cash calls in
proportion to their participation. The extent of Bank participation was
determined on the basis of the fact that a substantial part of the foreseen
investment is for contractor and consultant services and for specialized
drilling services and equipment, none of which are normally susceptible to
export credit financing.
62.     Access to commercial financing at this time is also problematic on
country grounds. Given the constrained outlook for official assistance,
Pakistan will need to increase its borrowings from international capital
markets if economic growth is to be sustained. Until the late 1970s,
Pakistan's reliance on commercial borrowing to meet its foreign exchange
financing requirements was minimal. In 1979 the Government began borrowing
on commercial terms and at short maturities to avert a foreign exchange
shortfall. Since then, as economic performance improved, the Government has
been able to improve somewhat the maturities of commerciasl loans for balance
of payments support, but these maturities still remain relatively short.l/
In order to extend maturities further, the Government needs to improve its
standing in international financial markets. Pakistan's prospects for
obtaining better terms should improve with the approach of mobilizing foreign
exchange resources linked to financially and economically viable development
projects that enhance the country's overall creditworthiness and debt servic-
ing capacity. The Bank and the Government are currently preparing a sizeable
I/ New commitments from financial institutions averaged about US$280
million per year since FY80, with a weighted average interest rate of
0.71 percentage points above LIBOR and maturities of two to four years.



-22-
B-Loan for the telecommunications sector that will test market reaction to
this approach. Once the reaction of financial markets has been tested under
the proposed B-Loan, the Government will be in a better position to embark
upon a prudent long-term foreign borrowing strategy. Thus, until market
response has been obtained from this single test case, it would be inap-
propriate simultaneously to consider commercial financing for a parallel
project. The Bank's dialogue with Government has emphasized that a number of
upcoming projects offer good potential for mobilizing foreign exchange
resourres on more favorable terms.
Implementation
63.     The implementation of the joint venture components of the project
will be the responsibility of the "Operators" for individual joint-venture
areas. For the first two components (North Potwar and Badin) the "Operators"
are Occidental of Pakistan, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Occidental
Petroleum Corporation, and Union Texas Pakistan, Inc., wholly owned by the
Union Texas Petroleum Corporation, respectively. In accordance with the
Joint Operating Agreements among partners, the "Operator" submits all key
decisions on the project for approval to the other partners during meeting;
of the formal Operating Committee or one of its subcommittees at which par-
ticipants are represented. Important matters, such as work programs and
budgets are decided by 2/3 majority vote (60Z for the Badin Block). Within
the approved program and budget, the "Operator" is given a free hand in
running the project. However, alL members of the joint venture are kept
informed by the "Operator" on a regular basis of the progress of operations,
the results of well tests, procurement activities and disbursements. They
are entitLed to inspect the operations and audit expenditures.
64.     The "Operator" handles a'l expenditures related to the appLoved work
program; the other partners advance their respective share of each month's
projected expenditures on the basis -if monthly cash calls. At the end of
each month, the Operator submits detailed statements of expenditure during
that month and credits or debits the other partne-s' accounts for any cash
overcalls or undercalls.
65.     Although the "Operator" is responsible for project management under
the overall guidance of the Operating Committee and with substantial techni-
cal and administrative back-up from the parent company, the actual execution
of the operations (seismic surveys, construction, well drilling, logging,
etc.) are contracted out to specialized service companies in keeping wich
standard petroleum industry practice.
66.     These implementation arrangements, which have been proven to be
efficient for the North Potwar and Badin joint ventures where two experienced
and capable international oil companies are the "Operators", are satisfactory
to the Bank. For the New Joint Ventures, Government has agreed to entrust
the operatorship to an experienced private oil company and the Bank would
review the implementation arrangements to be proposed for this component, and



-23-
the institution of suitable New Joint Venture Agreements including implemen-
tation and procuremwnt arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement for each of these components (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Implementation of the Technical
Assistance component will be the overall responsibility of the Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources. The heads of individual General
Directorates would execute their respective shares of the overall technical
assistance program with assistance from consultants (Schedule 5, Part A.3 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
67.     Procurement under the existing joint venture operating agreements
will be undertaken by the respective "Operators" (Occidental and Union Texas)
using their own corporate procurement procedures, subject to post auditing by
the non-operating partners. With the exception of public advertising for
international competitive bidding, the procurement procedures applied by
these companies follow closely the Bank's procurement guidelines. These
procedures are efficient and economical, and are not biased against any
qualified supplier capable of meeting industry standards. However, very
strong emphasis is placed on pre-qualifying bidders because of the industry's
traditional propensity for operational safety. In accordance with accepted
industry practice, Limited International Tendering (LIT) is used when it is
more appropriate to the specialized nature of the services and equipment and,
in case of emergency, contracts are signed directly with the most expeditious
supplier. The Operators are under obligation to procure goods and services
on terms and conditions most favorable to alL of the partners, and to consult
with them with respect to quantities and terms and conditions of procurement.
To the extent possible, they must receive at least three offers. Both com-
panies have assured the Bank that they do not have any financial interest
in any company supplying materials and services for their operations and have
not to date, and do not foresee, contracts with companies domiciled in non-
Bank countries. In both companies, procurement is routinely audited by both
the internal and external auditors. The Bank will reserve the right to
withhold financing of any item which, in the Bank's opinion, has been
misprocured and, in such cases, to cancel a corresponding amount of the loan.
68.     Bank-financed procurement under the joint ventures would thus be made
in accordance with the Operators' procedures which are generally consistent
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. A significant portion of the expen-
ditures during the first year for the existing joint ventures will be
incurred under contracts already in force. Procurement procedures for these
contracts were reviewedl and found to be acceptable. The principal contracts
in force in the North F-otwar and Badin concessions are the drilling
contracts, contracts for tubulars, and contracts for drilling materials such
as mud chemicals. These contracts have been awarded by inviting some six to
eight qualified companies from four different countries to bid, or, as in the
case of mud chemicals and logging services, by limited international tender-
ing to specialized companies. For the drilling contracts the daily rates to



-24-
the winning contractor are closely in line with rates of contracts recently
awarded under other Bank-financed projects in the same geological area; for
contracts for equipment and materials, contract awards are competitive with
international prices. For the remaining two years, joint venture expendi-
tures for further purchases of goods and services are expected to be evenly
spread out over more than 20 or so contracts.
69.     The Bank will be able to monitor closely through OGDC the procurement
practices of both Operators. In the North Potwar Concession, the Operator
must have the permission of Working Interest Owners for (i) any single addi-
tion to fixed assets, other than a well, amounting to $75,000 (or equivalent)
or more, (ii) any single maintenance project amounting to $75,000 (or
equivalent) or more, and (iii) the drilling, deepening, plugging back, or
reworking of any well. In the Badin Concession the Operator "shall insofar
as is practicable, consult with the Parties from time to time with respect to
the quantity and types of material and equipment to be required and the terms
and conditions under which the Operator expects that such material and equip-
ment will be acquired". For each of the existing joint venture operations,
all procurement documentation will be available for Bank staff review on a
continuing basis.
70.     For the New Joint Ventures whose operating arrangements are yet to be
negotiated, the Bank will review these Joint Venture Agreements, in par-
ticular with regard to the procurement arrangements.  In the latter regard,
the Bank will seek to be satisfied that goods and services required for these
components of the project shell be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines (Schedule 4, Part B of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
71.     Joint venture investment requirements would be dealt with on the cash
call system, ander which the operator estimates the next month's cash needs
and is paid in advance. The cash calls would be subsequently verified by the
statements of actual expenses prepared by the operator at the end of each
month (Schedule 5, Part B.4 of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to assist
Government/OGDC in meeting expenditures in a timely manner, it is proposed
that a Special Account be set up in the National Bank of Pakistan with an
initial deposit of US$5 million, i.e. 4 months' net cash calls.
Government/OGDC will use the Special Account for meeting cash calls, and the
Bank will replenish on the basis of the monthly statements of actual expenses
and accompanying documentation which will be forwarded to the Bank as soon as
they are available. In no event would the Bank make a further disbursement
or replenishment against cash calls if these monthly statements have not been
received and approved for three previous cash call disbursements; or if more
than one tenth of the totaL loan amount has been expended without being
supported by the full documentation of the operator's actual expenses
(Schedule 1, paragraph 3(d)(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). As a
condition of disbursement Government/OGDC would provide to the Bank the



-25-
annual work program and budget for each joint venture component (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.     In the North Potwar concession Bank funds would finance the first
US$16.1 million of cash calls on OCDC and the first US$8.5 million of cash
calls on the Government, covering 100% and 412 respectively of their
estimated foreign exchange requirements. In the Badin concession the Bank
would fund Government's share of foreign currency cash calls up to US$12.9
million, (41% of their estimated foreign exchange requirements). In the
event that OCDC reaches agreement on new joint ventures satisfactory to the
Bank (paragraphs 66 and 70), the loan would finance up to US$17.5 million of
foreign currency cash calls for these operations. For the new joint
ventures, Bank funds are expected to cover 100% of OGDC's foreign exchange
costs.
OCDC's Finances
73.     Until recently OGDC's activities were financed almost exclusively
by Covernment funding through the Annual Development Plan (ADP). OGDC has
made no contribution at all to its exploration and development activities
from its internal resources, having accumulated deficits of US$138 million.
This resulted from large exploration and development expenditures which were
not matched by corresponding increases in production and from inadequate oil
and gas prices for OCDC production.
74.     Until July 1984 crude oil from Toot (then OGDC's largest field) was
sold for Rs 44/Bbl (US$3.50) and associated gas for Rs 2/MCF (US$0.16).
However under agreements reached during negotiation of the Second Toot
Development Project (Loan 2374-PAK), the Government undertook to set oil and
gas prices for Toot production at a level no less favorable than prices paid
to private petroleum companies operating in adjacent areas. As a result Toot
oil was increased to US$16.00/barrel and gas to Rs 5/MCF on July 1, 1984.
These price increases were quickly followed by production increases. Three
of the four wells programmed under the Second Toot Project were completed as
producers and added 700 barrels a day (BPD) of oil to Toot production.
Elsewhere, in the Potwar Basin, Occidental brought the Dhurnal field into
production with the completion of a 7000 BPD well in which OGDC has a 20!
interest. In Baluchistan, production from OCDC's gas field at Pirkoh started
(financed by ADB); gas production is expected to increase sharply from less
than 2 BCF in 1984 to 27 BCF in 1985 and to 57 BCF by 1988.  In the Indus
Basin in the Sanghar area, OGDC discovered the Tando Alam oil field from
which 1.3 million barrels are expected to be produced in FY85 rising to 4.3
million barrels in FY88. Overall production of oil is expected to increase
from 2,500 BPD in 1984 to 23,000 BPD in 1988; similarly, production of gas is
projected to increase from 15 MMSCFD in 1984 to 238 MMSCFD by 1988.
75.     OGDC will receive US$20/barrel for the oil from Tando Alam and Rs
9.31MCF for gas from Pirkoh. As a result sales revenue which was US$9 mil-
lion in FY84 is expected to climb to US$62 million in FY85, to US$132 million



-26-
in FY86 and to US$188 million by FY88. To ensure that OCDC remains finan-
cially viable, the Government shaLl ensure that the oil prices for oil
produced as a result of the Project will not be less than the price paid or
to be paid to private companies for their share of such oil (Section 4.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Government shall ensure that the price for
pipeline quality gas produced as a result of the New Joint VentureB will be
equal to 66% of the international price of fuel oil at main consumption
centers adjusted for transmission cost of gas from the field to these
centers, less a percentage discount to be negotiated but to be no greater
than that applied to the price paid or to be paid to private companies for
their share of such gas (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Under
agreements tied to the Second Toot Project (Loan 2374-PAK) the Government
shall not cause OGDC to transfer any of its earnings from operations to the
Government unless OGDC has met its operating costs, debt service requirements
and a reasonable portion of its development and exploration expenditures from
internally generated funds. OGDC is forecast to have cash flow after debt
servicing of US$28 million in FY85 and continuing positive cash flows through
1989 aggregating US$213 million, sufficient to cover more than 30Z of the
planned capital investment in the period. OGDC is expected therefore to
maintain very satisfactory current ratios, debt/equity ratios and debt serv-
ice coverage (Annex VI, Attachments 3 and 5) and substantially reduce its
reliance on Government budget transfers. As its overall financial situation
improves, OGDC should be able gradually to broaden its access to external
finance beyond the multiLateral and bilateral lending agencies to include
some access to commercial borrowing. In the context of the Energy Sector
Loan, Government has agreed to review with the Bank by June 30, 1986, the
measures needed to strengthen OCDC's managerial and self-financing
capabilities and the timetable for their implementation. OGDC would furnish
to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later than September 30 in each
year an analysis of OGDC's current, and a three-year projection of ,ts
future, financial position. (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
76.     OGDC is required under its Ordinance to keep full accounts of its
financial position. Until recently, financial systems suffered from major
deficiencies which precluded OGDC from issuing meaningful financial
statements. They included (i) weak procedures and an unreliable flow of
documents, (ii) backlog in processing of transactions, (iii) insufficient
control over stores and fixed assets, (iv) a deficient accounting system,
and (v) lack of a systematic management information system.
77.     With support from the Bank and funding from the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), a consultant was hired as financial controller to help
remedy the situation. Major progress has been achieved. A new accounting
and management information system has been designed; a full inventory of
stores has been completed; flow of documents and procedures have been
streamlined; backlog in accounting for stores transaction has been reduced
from several years to about one month; a full inventory of OGDC fixed assets



-27-
has been carried out; yearly accounts are now being issued, in a meaningful
format, within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year, as compared with a
3-year delay for FY78 statements; and accounting principles used by OGDC,
especially as regards accounts for dry holes, abandoned wells and
geological/geophysical expenses have been revised and made to conform to
industry practice.
78.     OGDC's accounts are audited jointly by two auditors, both chartered
accountants. Appointment of these auditors is made by OGDC after approval of
the Auditor General of Pakistan. The audit report is submitted to the Board
of Directors and to the Government. Besides this commercial audit, OGDC is
subject to Government audit. Finally, OCDC has its own Internal Audit
Department, which has been primarily involved in the audit of transactions.
Over the last two years, the Internal Audit Department has taken a more
extensive role in controlling stores and fixed assets. These arrangements
are satisfactory to the Bank. The Government and OGDC would submit to the
Bank the annual audit reports of expenditures billed by the operator to the
other partners in each joint venture, within six months of the end of the
fiscal year of the operator (Schedule 5, Part B.5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). OGDC would furnish to the Bank semi-annual financial reports
and audited annual consolidated financial statements for the corporation
(Section 4.01(b)(iii) and (iv) of the draft Project Agreement).
Reporting
79.     The Government/OGDC would (a) furnish quarterly progress reports on
project implementation; (b) give access to Bank staff to confidential techni-
cal reports submitted by the Operators with regard to project areas; and (c)
allow Bank staff access to individual joint venture Operators regarding the
implementation of the project (Schedule 5, Parts B.6 and 7 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Environmental Impact and Safety
80.     Under the existing joint venture agreements the Operators are liable
for any environmental damages and accidents attributable to their willful
malpractice or gross negligence; the procedures they have to follow to
safeguard the environment and to ensure the safety of operations are spelled
out in detail. They are, therefore, extremely careful to follow established
procedures and norms of the international petroleum industry (such as
American Petroleum Institute (API) Standards and Recommended Practices) in
the conduct of their drilling and production operations and the design and
construction of surface production facilities. These provisions are satis-
factory to the Bank. The Bank when reviewing the joint venture agreements to
be negotiated for the New Joint Venture components (paragraph 70) would
ascertain that similarly satisfactory provisions are incorporated therein.
Government/OGDC would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that
each Joint Venture component, shall be subject to and comply with the



-28-
environmental safety standards of the international petroleum industry
(Schedule 5, Part B.9 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefit and Risks
81.     The principal benefit of the project is the likelihood of further
discoveries of hydrocarbon reserves, particularly discoveries in the North
Potwar and Badin blocks. As with most exploration (and appraisal) projects,
however, the key parameters (in particular the size of the recoverable reser-
ves and the productivity of the discovered fields) are not firmly enough
established at this stage to allow quantification of the benefits. The
justification for this proposed investment, therefore, rests on a qualitative
assessment of three types of risks: geological, technical and economic. The
geological risk is that no significant hydrocarbon reserves would be
discovered. This risk is best evaluated in the context of the exploration
performance to date in each of the geological basins. In the Potwar basin,
the average size of fields discovered so far is of the order oE 25 million
barrels of recoverable oil and 0.2 TCF of associated gas. The success ratio
has been generally high, about one exploration well out of four resulting in
a commercial discovery. In the particular case of the North Potwar block the
magnitude of future discoveries could be higher than the average field size
discovered so far if the recent exploration success risk is representative;
field productivities and reservoir conditions in the North Potwar block also
appear to be superior to that found in other areas of the Potwar. The
geological risk is, therefore, considered low. The same historic success
ratio has also been obtained in the Badin block. However, there, reserves
are much smaller, on the order of 2 to 5 million barrels of oil and 40 BCF of
gas per field. Assuming that the operators of the North Potwar and Badin
concessions would be able to match the historical success ratio, the
exploration/appraisal programs included in the first two joint ventures could
result in the discovery of about 50 million barrels of oil and 0.5 TCF of
gas, both recoverable.
82.     The technical risk of the project is primarily associated with the
difficulties in drilling and testing of the wells. In the Badin area, drill-
ing conditions are straightforward and present no significant risk. In the
Potwar area, however, the drilling risk has been historically a relatively
high one, with long and costly well drilling time, frequent mechanical dif-
ficulties and abandoned wells being commonly experienced. In the past few
years these problems are being surmounted and the drilling performance over-
all has improved noticeably with experienced drilling contractors and
operators and increasing experience with local conditions. In the proposed
project, experienced oil companies will be the leaders of the various joint
venture components of the project and will be in charge of the actual project
implementation. Their technical performance to date in these exploration
blocks has been of high standard. It is, therefore, highly likely that their
presence will bring the expertise required for successful project
implementation, and will reduce the risks associated with the project to a
level considered to be acceptable by the industry.



-29-
83.     The economic risk that the discoveries would be too small to justify
commercial development is considered to be low in both the North Potwar and
Badin blocks for reasons already mentioned. Calculations show that if com-
bined recoverable reserves of 30 million barrels of oil and 250 BCF of gas
were discovered, acceptable rates of return (on the order of 30Z, without
taking into consideration sunk costs) would be obtained.
84.     Finally, there are also important, non-quantifiable benefits to be
derived by the staff of OGDC from their association in ongoing exploration
and development projects with the staff of experienced international oil
companies, as a result of which they would more directly be expcsed to the
operating philosophy and procedures of the international petroleum industry.
Also, the Technical Assistance component of the project, by enhancing the
technical and administrative capabilities of the staff of the Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources and modernizing the procedures and office
equipment, would result in improving considerably the efficiency with which
the Government administers and negotiates ongoing and prospective exploration
agreements and thus enhance the overall prospects of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. An additional condition of
effectiveness would be the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and OGDC.
86.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
87.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 6, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-30-                                                      ANNEX I
T A I L 9  3 A^
mmSTI                    N OC7AL INDl> OAUA So1MAgAlIJ
UCNM?                (MI  R IISVDIAST) 4"
L4W INCINI          NICOLE
I dl       1970I gil  EtIAUL         ASIA 4 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
TOTAL                               603.9        3039        803.9
ACRICULURAL                         22I.5       14U.)        253.3
I us  Wimt  (116                        70.0       130.0        360.0             275.6                   1091.2
a_ citnnaw
(KILOQUM  OF OIL EQUIVAINI)          9S.L       139.0        179.0             272.0                   567.3
uowsnuu AMID VrITL UUTICSU
POPULATLON,NID-UAR (TROUUANDS)   45651.0    60449.0        87125.0
UL1AN POPULATION (R OF TOTAL)        22.1        24.9         29.1              21.7                     34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
IOPVLATION IN WAR 2000 (KILL)                              13V.6
JTATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               377.3
POPULATION MO4RNSTI                                          1.9
PtPUILATION DENSITY
EER SQ. NM.                        57.0        75.2        in0 1             166.6                   261.9
PER SQ. 101. AGIII. LAND          201.5       248.4        333.6             345.5                  1735.3
POPULATION ACE sTRUCrURC (2)
0-14 ns                           43.6        46.3         46.1              35.6                     39.0
15-64 YIS                         5.8         50.5         50.9              39.8                    57.6
65 ANO AnOVE                        4.4         3.2          2.7               4.3                      3.3
POPULATION CROWn RATE CZ)
TaTAL                               2.3         2.6          3.0               1.9                      2.3
URBAN                               4.6         4.0          4.3               4.1                     4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TWUS)          46.6        46.6         42.0              27.7                    30.1
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER TWOS)          23.4        19.3         15.4              1O.1                     9.5
CWOSS REPROOUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4          3.0               1.6                     2.0
FAMILY rLANrUJC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS              .       1908.1     1244.0 ic
UsERS (E oP MARRIED VGIEN)           ..         6.0 /d        ..                ..                     52.7
FooD AIED IUKrloN
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        89-0       !02.0        105.0             112.6                   123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY 'F
CALORIES (2 OF R-41IREH£NTS)       8B.n       106.0        106.0              97-7                    114.4
PROTEINS (RAtMS FER DAT)           58.0        65.0         65.0              56.8                    57.0
OF WlHICH AllIMAL AND PULSE      23.0        22.'         20.0 /e           14.9                     :.I
CHILD (AES 1-Al DEATH RATE           25.4        21.0         16.6               9.8                     7.2
HEALTR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        43.1        46.0         49.8              60.0                    60.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PEA THOUS)       ia:.-       143.0        120.9             8;.8                     66.3
ACCESS T2 SAFE WATER (tPOP)
TOTAL                                ..        21.0         29.0 /f           32.9                     37.0
URBAN                                ..        77.0         60.0 If           70.9                    5A.B
RURAL                                ..         4.0        17.0 If           22.1                    26.4
ACCESS rO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
t OF POPUIATIOIE)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0          b.0 /A           13.1                     41.3
URIAN                                          12.0         21.0 IJL          72.8                    47.4
RURAL                                ..          ..           ..               *.6                    33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           S4.0jD      4300.0/h     3480.0            3484.2                   1749.4
POP. PER NURSISC PERSON           16960.0    10580.OJF    5820.0              4793.1                  2460.4
PoP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1790.0     1860.0       1560.0 Ic         1066.5                   1044.2
URBAN                             510.0       650.0        710.0 Ie          296.0                   651.2
RURAL                           22850.0    12460.0       11860.0 ii;        5993.4                   2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..           ..               ..                     27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3          6.1 Ic
URBAN                               5.6         5.5          6.4 Ic
RURAL                               5.4         5. 2         6.0 Ic/
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIR0I0
TOTAL                               3.1         2.8 it
URAIN                               1.1         2.7 rI
RURAL                               3.1         2.8 /r.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF 1WELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..        17.9 At
URJAN                                ..        54.4 1         *-
RUtAL                                           4 9 .9f



-31-
ANNEX I
S A I L I3                                         -PAGE 2
CAIITSNl               -  OCIAL DIMICS 4 BAA smsRW
RFRm mop (VEZUTED AVERAGESI 
NOBT               (MST UCCNUT STIMATE) Lb
IUCIHS          LOW ICI               MZIDDLOlINCOIU
Iwo&k   1i,7,ok       STIMATiUt       ASIA 4 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTIID UNROLLMNT RATIOS
PRDAY:  TOTAL                      30.0        40.0         36.0              97.4                   102.0
lAUE                    46.0        57.0         78.0             110.3                    105.9
FDtAIC                  13.0        22.0         31.0              83.7                    9B.2
SECONDARYe TOTAL                   11.0        13.0         17.0              35.9                    41.0
mIUI                     16.0       20.0         27.0              44.6                     4B.7
rFDALZ                   3.0         5.0          7.0              26.8                     43.1
VOCATIONAL (Z o0 SCOAR!Ds)            1.0         1.3          1.0 Ie            2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-TIACH2R RATIO
PRIDLY                             39.0        41.0         48.0              38.5                    31.8
SDoNDART                           24.0        20.0         23.0 Ic           18.7                    23.5
ADULT LITCRACY RATE (X)              15.4        20.7 1I      24.0 Le           53.4                    72.9
PASUEIIE  CARIStHOURAND Por           1.5         2.6          3.4               0.9                    10.1
RADIO UECIVERBITOlU D PO              6.0        17.1         67.0             112.1                   113.6
TV RBCCIVERS/BTOUBAND POP              ..         1.6          9.7              15.7                    50.1
14018PAPER ("DXLY CIDUAL
INTEREST") CIRCULTATON
PEE THOUSAND POPUILATION           13.2          ..         13.7 Ic           16.2                    53.9
CINEA ANNUAL ATr1EDANCEICAIMTA        1.7         3.0 lt       1.2 Cc            3.6                     3.4
TOTAL LAOR ORCE (THOUS)          14445.0    17364.0       25240.0
FDiALE (PERuzuE)                    6.6         9.3         10.5              33.3                    33.5
A.hICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0        59.0         57.0              69.6                    52.2
INWSITRS (PRCENT)                  18.0        19.0         20.0              15.8                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                              31.5        2S.7         29.0              42.6                    36.7
NALE                               55.2        50.4         49.3              54.7                    50.9
FUKALd                              5.7         5.5          6.0              29.8                    26.6
ECONQIIC DEPENDECT RATIO              1.5         1.7          1.8               1.0                     1.1
imcT  Dts2IRS_n
PERCEIT OF PRIVATE INCOUE
ECZEIVED ST
RIHCEST St Or HOUSENOLDS           20.3 hk     17.6           ..                ..                    22.2
sIcEsT 20s OOUSE UIILDS            45.3 h      41.8           ..                ..                    4e.0
LOWEST 201 OF UOUSEIOLOI            6.4 h       8.0           ..               ..                      6.4
LOWES   402 OF HOUSEHOLDS          17.5 J1    20.2            ..               ..                     15.5
_aVM TARGET _
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVSTY INCME
LEVEL (US$ PUR CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .        6S.0 Ij    176.0 Ic           133.9                   188.6
RURAL                                .         47.0 Ij    122.0 re           111.6                   152.0
ESTDATlD REIATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (USS PCR CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        34.0 II      88.0 Ij             ..                   177.9
RURAL                                ..        22.0 IJ      58.0 lc            ,,                    164.6
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCQKE LECEL (2)
URJAN                                ..        42.0 1/      32.0 Ic           43.8                    23.4
R1IUL                                ..        43.0 II      29.0 re           51.7                    37.7
NOT AVAILAfLE
HOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
fa  The group averaps for each Indicator are populstian-wlobted arithdntle m_ann. Coerage of countries aM    the
Indicators dereads on availabllity of date and Is not un:foru.
b   Unls otherwis  noted, "Data for 1940"  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Moet llcent IStluate" between 1980 and 19U2.
Ic  1979;,Ad 1946; 1. 1977; /1 1976; /j 1975; lb RagItered. not all practicing In the cOwnry; Ty     1973; ii1972; t
JUNE, 1984



-32-                                                                            ANNE  I
Pass 3
beet  Stt~t elm d ns am  Ca  gesm    ss5ss,lvjd    eka ma           6elises  le   enh.  isadseh   md ski thee -r wte be heerese iteet
esemtl   esEsm  S   Ie5,sndsiadaasatosm   sm   h diems   meI  a aimena   taas.  teIm.en                                                 mtaeeeeesIe
its  -ais   rmeet  1   t   mtssles.i   t etseemes  (3) ftnbAse k  onap slab e                                mis Mf%sr stev        ofss  Ekesr eas    Rooej~ml
eflstle).  to am  ssm   amno Cm   an Ensme an pO"gemi  ensimne  ertehes   MM Iet ma6 tedene  .m1 Mom eIg eas  esnftm   of ea caseM fms 
5rs   a  esle   h  wooder   lime lba wasses  sO ass eaiero ant abmtsee  ene-e    emLehttid   bem    g S lessa elen   saNte as  te
tntIeeSmtainsa   ofsus  erftlsea litnerm   mn.Tee  ensue am eli eorstel nFe M.Aeti    eta eic A  n    Si"',                e eio  ante   es sftet easer .I
Use  shamO    msctered                                                                      lmgu.nLk41smook-lPvdslwsic  dnWedsdtboa'aster efa p-anrtlq
'IWb ted tur  at.                                                  nmietsenLtn!elazaa- eecmteens tied  hi flysi psenteta
Aev!e&ecsk      seow at essamiese suams see F;neqmmatlp teisemli                             wettaW1lieWLajOi  mlretem. gseinsee  meste keW pre        tel  es mol
iifli~  seame., aMe  as enesee jettas  - me li  letlees  555.      Omean aetiletgaseo.         m     "Ld         kat   m        %I*S
%UIW 1Ef                metd    Mend ke  sue"11  ofea  heelsi                        imLbebmlttatte tem. seRPint t1efe aetireareste peieni  eneteiC-
n'een, terK=&"%  ieea den.,w                                                      ep en haLoast seM sipLdsel., Snehileh eene pseceinO asonelhe ipmea
NM pH olingister in Udowasm of  ea noealm   -, Laissa %teem  a   a  jenedd."W4PO test teniels. heme   leti   ui   e
q p  nmstims.m c1mmitten  lisohiesses   S ela me   mt.eIIe IN.sr  mallme  158                 itbeItmm           oe    diiCilte 
ie.m letat.                                                                                                  - tenet smebet etF mbnesi,se tentoiietmesse
eate mesesiessea. lifrmpters  less ieee Letee kemeticars                                            d tnteensia  pee.
cent see-Ae    lite .ned em a   elect ledessie  .si senie                                eies   eet.t.hissite    e-masssnts.
vein. 11tejarerett   pemati  tnt etetimpu emtme  aseeris J.-J stm                       iseaekse  pits. "        14s[Pfpt-
g-ame.  Its otrenisis  vsslstr lese.   tee  sh PIesa lasse -                            etint  te    ltnelats    eeste
plsio     stet mem.  (5   fletyde do  shoMedasd.m  se1 (-5 ntess etaoos-iyimld"aid                                                                     o"
dehteetmse merel"stittWL  m lotmttigLe.  leebiR  Romete    L-e seveea.-                    e.Itdl e   .drd~Isa  1peo"wsm                                    t
modes MtU mok.    eM Hte ana P.-9m l a-assentis                 Lt ettnlsa          et   e      oll.a  bue  en I      vi1 stist   a tstse.
seate lee  selasejseesi choesmiae en imestee s"ates tes                                    rlt  eatasi.e',el          .4se 4 seming- Cissieed sicidem  ci  eE
r0eesattlem  earn) F . eomain  e smssnni  sete Rtte e Isammnem                            vst bi.ns ejene  an  anecMiden  -Lse  S :petasm  admesean1stoela
MM eeu  -se  den  rite  etaoo ass an pa4"si     si.e  Cs.snent esa seemess P. tLa               h -.,.smssecal sdsasne  meehs 1.my easedt 50 se
-islte  eae l   he enniteset  passlate ese-m  assets esa tc                         reWs em      , ses  1ste tales - emsteas e mtO te   teltP
Mete el the trejec  leet fpsetmssnes  e    etes M.m (Sm phest sF.een -Nvena.                                        eelemt- aSaebmes bv
as.m af Ot me1teds beie  et. FRImecimtnp -s      dad .setss ndet.dels  sLends  enl....sem.sssedstaynnme
Vsesltilejkctm-5rs tee taises tntRh   sapeiste pto.  ev eseta                              swItbm.ests!  seths,   s   ase  treinta  Ste=            i      e
"-nownlameetoot.emi-tm oo-ae   ts nimddeg tea hes  es.Las t,                              mini  ..ts mt It5.5 reesekt    sO teedmy 2.sessmleim              i
Ii. sese slice tee at lsptebmtssm  tame Se tsaaed senesa.sees .amereltsa.sendiA.
LEE."t1,7tess Pee..                                                                    t i "-emeklasr teemsl- dle¶ery   ml  e-asditm  -- tenet emdenem seeta t
aetfiELlIl                                                                           ssevtml  es"my  ast   Ue'    he1 "its cIdb    masteed w~it.)
tee.i-li,t sE              l  Ct  rsiaeted -  iteta  CiteMa se)em                         enpteseseeti1sa lees!..C
~iiflan  ns. tes. ed  est ine. astem  lee  vssssam sremnr.det).re                                             stnease   si   a edm   te)e
peaeis!nst  50  ml  estdee.                                                       wee  st           th`7 s4eheIIIismess mAlism Loseitem.tse. l
peer 5e~cssse lr limit . tet,mt nSt.ml                                             as  eier  .esese   s.ess       vers  m  veMei-e- do  mace.
tesaacie (vtS.sets(sct'mt -  ttat- bss  iachreas mlashs         hiadmec. agecre    nsis, edn~             atd stesPteti mel sel. dem
(iismmic  be  miT k sMmme)-besIshte -. shameS ml`eat-                                 set   am  stoeet  Cae1tiee  se   na    eimaehee   e
ge Leselc  hasR tes  .tt. t  ees.                                                    emese sheitaled -saeracen.                                  TVradle
(s.C  misamt= (e   me,st-Jse t            esihi seeC d cmeeet-me  bn-'ms t-e    -iteses lee  Resmsa ame-e tiee)-s15  oreainers  tn  remm cn v
ropretett      doested .    deets00ted 552 Cts,tee.!  eh-t et itmeas seslC,e  setise ettasee -ft&tti
ivtslnstt  meas, tedenty ils--ra- asers            t.ma  1s ee. 1q70 55d                  e-lrsmes  me tm!y aeeesie  Mammeen, esesm.  bittedd me   powedisetl
Isee.                                                                                    pehltce5im  is-me rrisesst - meeedtse st-sc2  -m  ft cm admUesdd
teas  ts,sne  - eitsers  asten  mee..ae . ,  aa   earm  vsir                   Cm he i-"itw7 lytf K. it  eet enlms Motear case s ash.
seasre                                                                       enstte med desie nhepeer.teasedes silseim   cm ite-atd mltes 
vas  Plceg -Sket esris  aCmaes   ma). eveeeam  i arnd                cin "..ests,=     d.                                           .2
en L PI.   dtmit asmt e       ta sreven  meI  -   ta-tet-het.a-.me
.pe,scic'.a- raeSe.taes tes    ass       .4sitt le    ar      -    I                                                           esms,ma,  n.  setn
term ste                                                                              isepsrshl1sa s tisi. otisi@ .V-se.teante.
Iflh1WbFaaarten  -v(aittamsee-r-s,asa- (mit et pe scent            tepe a.flNpt2    p- Psl    atsertes-.  ea reeas  en satiN- i-e  eeie
V" ... M   iCKess   tm   edeMtis.taedeesmm   cd                                           k±j-iqj. ,frMI so".     ether Cae OIs a...   a   irnr  Cemsm
mnett  tsm    l  iai mtc-vesie  m-1eceesieee  ss.iiaer  isaei                                               R-at  ees ssiir.. etttle.  ee-tntesm
hema enaente . merW) raInss, pie  es,hnWIes ins-.  sCSI,ed  .med ne"kiest -,etics.                             d    -   ...d6          t- -   adMO.8a
dema,                                                                        rsrsnrns.eime sits(rsrrtti amid,.1.61-t..si1v7sim  - 1ataneistaft
i".e.£aLtihh aerime aeptha dinett  srm"tarte  tee =s                                      JUG ce. t570. met teld  dec..  thes a-  heed  - 118. Perssissetent   taste
aeseee R  l itnm   s  iet   it.stm sdets. mfthat teed. tests.                            teisesice  ag-e   Psst Rm mlb the s teen. ed imas msc rca.  a
1ece.e   at  cd  esees-ase. ml L-es  a. dge'lertn.    sa.-                          te   ecetsas   r  tSeilere
ese ts  asmtmested bp vat tid me _   tetmiasnemi medi lee s_Ie                        Pm           W     test. - tannin mef resmievme -sbi Ii mld CI met a     t.
mettettyse mamhatch  mn-9rnam bmgemsnlept            yc.  e   _let.n.                                     P41 d  ecmmm eat td        s
-~ m   sed    ittthtritea b    tine.asles  dd.1    it 1  W-ee  is, meme
ft, maml   el  se-l left.ml is   min-ed.                                               sea es-armie-snieaby...e
ta  sesemml  C  em,(tm  ca tee)                d - seta =  .mstis  ece tete               W"iFtWls ,eR  Imee  esei  a.  dkem - heimt r0wasdttemm
met ..eis atvm  set bre. mnithaetya  m   is tiOM           enjd   eh, e w e-             revises. nhm   osssn   em   osrm,mnmre        ess
qetr_mtes ts of1 es`ns3sen est ehitelt eg ease  pttic, tar assume                                    Noun
ditt   prasete. at   OPtc  it--te  sta  te. -id.  preeste IVFDt. ee                      A.EtWd fiSt  CU-PostdI%       Ldrb.
mlTestes W   ftedsn aMPt a  me1rti   1970 the etemi sissdI   55.Se.e.ih  Sntidms  eeisehtd
aau (see  5-) bass,kl  an  as tsee-   mie. "tsm 1e i 0 shame   t.l                          -Wneie 4mtate resrndt.  Sess  came els -tE mnd    - erta-  L. east-
reeeli  team brims tr1-t ta:  esdell md sern Sen.                                          se-eteLotese my ' sh  tesy   mteLam!i   et   e    t 
sewme                                                                    i~~~~~~Lat'  M  tmire  iestemma  isefett  astsls            selImeem      ie
UfL seaes  my. 4mares irar)  all.   yalm etero 1at rest  aU slim.                              -Ieas  e   te - rmvm  me. se  rbaite Levee   ml   Orea)  fte  its  s rel
lsf,et tarteitme hese (sir teesami),.-I - ene1mnde  teethe, met ceisess                                              S. esredem
pse  c  empe e.msas iem  ttle   550 Ifso daa    I.ten Case.
mets mn!  (tealede ee.mr" eerIes, doetem   er meteem   e                                                                   emesisemd berejeasmee tassetPmete1
aesetmtesed   ete stb e  nte (1see- mRest-tse  tee  . evrtiemp. met                                                                     Jee  I'm
cetir sle)tesmes  St stair mweesst   pmp5lsoadst.  5555
crha mmm e setc teammle - earedo'en Isamd me  me               tie- moirs
teedhm enb - is tctete a Ihelm etnte r-msodble esseme PR ehes
P-d-eseas   al ttatr romenteat   stelitla. Ieetftsdesimyctb
the sdllettic  55 itpsed, etch -oastmtett missiase  ml hess mcm
a0 es-ema  he me-he-e  epeeme-   shm   cr ie. retina  ml
cnmtIam n-MIsat!ena.



-33-
AN= I
Page 4 Dt 5
ECONOHIC DKYULOPUEU DATA
CaP PIR COTTA Dl 1952.  r8s580 LA
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983/84 Ak                                      anna NATr oP mmmi (2. conatant nricsa)
EUJAlli           2.L               1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980J81  18Ul8U 2  1982183  111284
GNP at mrket prices              33.68          100.0                   3.5               7.1           4.3       7.4      4.2
Stoma  dometic investmnt          5.23           15.5                  -5.5               4.1          10.3       9.6      3.4
CraM  national saving             4.20           12.5                  -2.1               6.7           6.9      24.9     -6.5
Current account balanas          -1.00           -3.0
Exports of goods. F7s            3.44           10.2                  -3.5               7.3          -3.6      27.5     -3.2
Imports of goods. IFS             7.06           21.0                  -7.1               5.5           0.7       1.1     22.0
OUTPUT, ILAOE FORCE AND
FRODUCTIVITY IN 193184
Value Added                  Lekgr Force ei                 V. A. Per Worksr
Nillion    2                  1million   2                     US       A-
Agriculture                      6.652      24                14.1      51                     472     47
Induatry Id                      8,09f      29                5.2       19                   1.557    155
Servicea                        12U931     47                .11       -a                    LI.     .2
Total/Average                 27.679    100                27.6      100                   1.003    100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central government le                             Federsl Government
(Re billion)           2 of CGP                 (Rs billion)          2 of GDP
1983l 84 LI    1913/1 4  1978179-1983184        1983184 If  1953184  I1978179-1983l84
Current receipts                        73.2         17.4          16.6                58.2        13.9          12.4
Current expenditures                   81LQ          19.1         23.                 IL!          Ila           12I
Current surplue                        -7.2          -1.7          -6.3               -4.6         -1.1          -0.4
Capital expenditures LI                34.2           8.1           9.4               34.2          7.0           8.0
External asaiatance (net)               6.0           1.4           2.1                 6.0         1.4           2.1
MlONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1974175   1975176   1976177   1977178   1978/79   1979)60   1980/81   1,981112  192/83  1983/84 lk
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money Li                   33.1      41.6       51.7      63.7       76.5      90.7     103.5      113.6    146.0    162.5
lnk credit to public sector                21.2      28.1      36.6       43.5      54.9       61.8      70.9       79.7     95.5    105.6
Bank credit to private sector              16.0      17.8      23.0       26.5      30.9       36.9      41.9       51.3     62.8      77.8
(percentages or index numbers 
Money and quasi money as z of GDP          29.5      31.5      34.6       36.7      39.0       38.3      37.0       35.1      40.1       38.7
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)        211.3     229.4     256.7    :77.0       295.6      331.9     375.4      403.9     418.1    462.0
AnnUal percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                       23.6       6.6       11.9       7.9       6.7       12.3      13.1        7.6       3.5       10.5
lank credit to public sector                 ..      32.5      30.2       18.8      26.2       12.6      14.7       12.4      19.8       10.6
Bank credit to private sector                ..      11.2       29.2      15.2       16.6      19.4      13.5       22.4      22.4       23.9
/a  Based on World Bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1930-82 prices and exchange rates. All otber
conversiona to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Io Provisional.
Ic Projection for 1983184. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Id Includes manufacturing. mining, construction and electricity and gss.
L' Consolidated revenues ad expenditures of Federal ad Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
transfers).
If Revised budget data.
& Excluding principal repayments of foreign losus. Capital expenditurea as defined in governe nt budget include
certain current expenditures also.
Ih Provisional.
Li Monetary statistics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for demonetized  notes, devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee. etc. as from June 30. 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State BSnk sources are not strictly comparable with INF
estimates for esrlier years.
Not applicable.
Not available.
March 1985



-34-
Page 5 of 5
UdlillOl 07 PAINRIITI                                             CIAJIDIEE Efl~~~~~~~Ofli (AVfARSO  1979180-19g3114)
1979180  19oOIe  1981/o2  1982183   183194                                       Bldllio
hUSS uillion)
ports of goods, UPS                2.955    3,41    3,D52    3,416        3,439          Raw cotton                    315.3         11.9
Imports of good.. NlY            5J709   6.f 6l 679 7            .058                    Cotton yarn                    214.7         6.1
Resource gap (deficit - -)        -2.754   -3,005   -3,627   -3,172    -3,619            Cotton cloth                   281.1        10.6
lice                          417.9         15.8
Interact paymente                   -2n5      -357     -453      -421      -477          All other comodities        14            iL4
Vorkers' raittances                 1,748    2,097    2,224    2,807      2,737            Total                     2,651.4        100.0
Othbr factor paymnts (net)            151      274      321       195       359
Net transfers                        =          A               _-"
Balance on current account        -1.140      -991   -1,535      -511    -1,000                   UnTRIIAL Dpii  Jun 1934
Direct forsiSn inveosentm .t
Net NILS borrowing                                                                                                              9ELgLLia
Disburements                      1,134      956    1,102    1,301      1,248
AmorticatiOn                     -3tQ       -51J     -492      -386 269                PubiLc debt. including guaranteed        9,890.4
kub-total                          624       440      410       915       679          Von-guaranteed private debt Ie
Transctions with IE LI                 78      315      358       413        -1            Total outstanding and disbursed        9,890.4
Otber item  n.e.i. Lk                600       546      318       285       142
Incrssse in reserves (-1            -362      -310      249   -1,102        180            DEsB  SnvXcz RATIO FOR 1983184 If
Gross reserves (end year) Ic         748    1,058       809    1,911      1.731
Petrolem  imports Id               1.079    1,535    1.710    1,610       1,423          Public debt, including guaranteed           15.6
Petroleum exports IA                  178      126      194        77        40          fon-goarantead private debt
Total                                   15.6
RATE OF EXCACX                                                                              IBDU/IDA LENDING (December 19833 (]MS million)
Through Nar 11. 1972                From May 12. 1972-Feb. 15  1973                                                         IZB         i
US$1 - Re 4.7619                            USS1 - R. 11.00                           Outstanding and disbursed             350.7   1,144.7
Re 1 - USSO.21                             Ri  1 - WSO.09                             Undisbursed                           197 0     617.2
Outstanding including undisbureed   547.7   1,761.9
From Feb. 16. 1973-Ja, . 19S2    From July 1981-June 1982 I            From July 1982-June 193 La         From July 1983-June 1984 LL
USS 1 - Re 9.90                        USS1  - Re 10.55                US$1 - Rs 12.75                    USS1 - Re !  SO
Re  1 - USSO10                        Is 1 - USSO.095                  Rs I - us$0.078                    Rs 1 - US80.074
/e  Including Trust Fund.
lk Including not short-term borrowing and errors ad omiasiona.
l   Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
IA Crude and derivatives.
LI mon-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
/L  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, factor and non-factor services; debt service includes IMF cbarges.
aL  Effective :anuary 8, 1982, the rupee is to he managed witb reference to a weighted basket of eurrencies.  The average
exchsnge raLe sbown is vis-s-via USS for the period shown.
Not available.
March 1985



-35-
Fags I
STATUS OF hANR GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  BTATEMENT OF BANK LOANB AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1995) LI
(CWS million)
Loan/                                                      (Amount not of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                     Undis-
hUmaC       Yeir    Purpose                                Inlk   ML                 burmnd
Ninety-eight loans and credit. fully disbursed Lb    781.4  32.0  1,001.6jj
646        1976   Irrigstion & Drainage (Khairpur)         -                14.0       3.5
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development             -      10.0     -          3.5
754        1978   Sslinity Control & Reclamation           --              70.0      66.8
813        1978   Punjsb Ext. 6 Agric. Dev.                --               12.5      4.2
877        1979   Salinity Control A Reel. (Mardan)    -                   60.0      53.6
892        1979   Primary Education                        -                10.0       3.9
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              -                 9.0      4.6
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        -               45.0       6.4
974        1980   Th,ird Highway                           -                50.0     20.7
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development              -               40.0       3.7
1109LzI    1981   Vocational Training                      --              25.0       8.4
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                                          30.0       0.4
1157/e    1981   Crain Storage                                             32.0      16.7
1158Le    1981   Agricultural Research                     --              24.0      15.1
1163/e    1981   On-Form Water Management                  -               41.0      13.0
11861e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          -               30.0       4.8
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0            -         13.8
2172       1902   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                -         26.5
2247       1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities         10.2            -         10.0
2305       1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)               10.D            -           5.9
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Cas Pipelines          43.0            -         42.2
1239/j    19B2   Irrigation Systems Rehsbilitation    -                    40.0      25.2
12431&    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.           -               14.0      10.6
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                      -                 7.0      4.7
1278/e    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  -               50.0      39.5
l348f1    1983   Lahore Urban Development                  -               16.0      14.0
1350/e    1983   Population                                -               18.0      14.1
13551z    1983   Coal Engineering                                            7..?     6.3
1374jj    1983   Karachi Water Supply                      -               25.t,     22.0
1375L/    1983   Fouzrth Drainage                                          65.0      58.8
13B0/e    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                    47.8      17.2
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0            -          9.0
2351       1984   Petroleum Exploration                    51.5            -         48.5
2374       1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0                -         24.2
2310       1984   Industrial Investment Credit             50.0            -         49.9
1439jj    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              -               50.0      44.6
1461/e    1984   Integrated Hill Farminng Development  -                   21.0      19.9
1480/e    1984   Second Technical Assistance               -                7.f       6.5
1487      1984   Command Water Management                  -               46.5      43.3
1499       1984   Second Small Industries                  -               50.0      44.0
15321e    1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -                   150.0    150.0
15331e    1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                     8.3       8.3
2499/e    1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                       100.0            --       100.0
Total                                                   1.166.6  42.0  2,115.9  1,088.3
of which has been repaid                                490.2   3.8      39.8
Total now outstanding                                     676.4  38.2  2,076.1
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         --     --       --        --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/d                          676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Total undisbursed                                         330.0   .5    754.8  l.088.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all lank/IDA financial projects in execution, wbich is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
Id  Prior to exchange adjustment.
le  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenisbment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in USS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
If  By using the market rste on dates of disbursements. the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAX (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and 877.5, respectively.



-36-
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1985)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Oblior               Tvne of Business       Loan   Ecuity    Tgtal
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      --       0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      -         u.75
1962-    G1hnribwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.57
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing               --     0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Wcven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     --        1.7t
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board         2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.02     -         4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical aud
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       99.32    1.56    100.88
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       3.44    0.38       3.82
Total Gross Commitments                   179.91   11.33    191.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               131.59    0.38    131.97
Total Comritments Now Held by IFC          48.32   10.95      59.27
Undisbursed (including participants)       68.10    0.70      69.40



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
11 months.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Oil and Gas Development Corporation and Directorate
General of Petroleum Concessions, Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources.
(c) Date of first preparation mission; date of preappraisal
mission:
July 1984; November 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
January 26, 1985.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 24, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(i) Government shall ensure that price of oil produced as a result
of the Project will not be less than the price paid/to be paid
to private companies; and that prices for pipeline quality gas
produced as a result of the project shall be equal to 66Z of the
international price of fuel oil at main consumption centers,



-38-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
adjusted for transmission cost of gan from the field to these
centers less a percentage discount to be negotiated but no
greater than that paid to private companies (paragraph 75);
The following would be an additional condition of effectiveness
(paragraph 85):
(i) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and OCDC has been
executed.
Conditions of disbursement are:
(i)  early finalization of participation arrangements with the
private sector, with the private partner acting as Operator, for
the "New Joint Venture" components; submission to the Bank for
its review of the implementation arrangements (paragraph 66),
including procurement (paragraph 70) for this component;
(ii)  no further disbursement or replenishment against cash calls
would be made if monthly statements have not been received and
approved for three previous cash call disbursements or if more
than one-tenth of the total loan amount has been expanded
without being supported by full documentation of operator's
actual expenses (paragraph 71);
(iii) Government/OCDC will provide annual work programs and budgets
for each joint-venture component (paragraph 71).



OIL AND GAS FIELDS IN PAKISTAN
Estimated Recoverable Reserves, Average Production, and Remaining Proven Reserves
(as of 31 December 1984)
Field (in order      Year discovered/       Discovered                                               Current Average              Approximate Remaining
of discovery)           Province          by (Company)        Status (as of December 1984)             Productton             Recoverable Proven Reserves
million        million           Trillion
Producing   Depleted   Undeveloped       Barrels  Cubic feet       Barrels           Cubic Feet
Oil   Gas      Oil      Oil     Gas      per day   eer day           011               Cas  4/
1.  Khaur            1915 Punjab           Attock Oil                       x                         -1/        -                 --
2.  Dhulian          1935 Punjab           Attock Oil                       x                         -1/         -                --
3.  Joys Mir         1944 Punjab           Attock Oil        x                                      250           -                --
4.  Balkassar        1946 PunJab           Attock Oil        x                                      450           -                 8-
5.  Sui              1952 Baluchistan      PPL                     x                                  -           701 5/           -                5.34
6.  Zin              1954 Baluchistan      PPL                                                x       -           -                 -                0.1
7.  Uch              1955 Baluchistan      PPL                                                x       -           -                -                 2.5
8.  Karsal           1956 Punjab           POL                              x                         -           -                 -                  -
9.  Khairpur         1956 Sind             PPL                                                x       -           -                -                  1.0
10. Mari             1957 Sind             ESSO                    x                                  -           198 6/           -                3.75
11. Mazarani         1959 Maxarani         PPL                                                x       -          -                 -                0.09
12. Kandhkot         1959 Sind             PPL                                                x 2/    -                          0.4                   -
13. Sari             1966 Sind             OGDC                    x                                  -           - l1/            -                .052
14. Heyal            1968 Punjab           POL               x     x                                3600         25"            21.5                   -
15. Toot             1968 Punjab           OCoc              x     x                                2500          9.8           22.9
16. Hundi            1971 Sind             OCDC                    x                                  -          - 11              -                   -
17. Kothar           1973 Sind             OGDC                                               x       -          -                 -               0.024
18. Rhodo            1974 Punjab           OGDC                                               x       -          -                 -               0.025
19. Jandran          1975 Baluchiatan      AMOCO                                              x       -          -                 -                - 7/
20. Dhodak           1976 Punjab           OGDC                                      x 3/    x        -           -                34                0.7
21. Adhi             1978 Punjab           PPL               x                                      1100          -                11                  -
22. Pirkoh           1978 Baluchistan      OCDC                    x                                  -           42               -                  1.0
23. Khashkeli        1981 Sind             Union Texas       a                                      3500          -               1.1                  _
24. Dakhni           1983 Punjab           OCDC              x                                        -                            -                   R
25. Laghari          1903 Sind             Union Texas       x                                      6300          -              8.8
26. Dabhi            1984 Sind             Union Texas                                        x 2/    -            -               R
27. Dhurnal          1984 Punjab           Occidental        x                                      5400          11.9             R-
28. Colarchi         1984 Sind             Union Texas                                        x 2/    -                                                R
29. Nandpur          1984 Punjab           OGDC                                               x       -           -                -                   -
30. Tajedi           1984 Sind             Union Texas                               x3j              -           -              1.5                   -
31. Tando Ala.       1984 Sind             OGDC              x                                      4000          -R                                   -
32. Fimckassar       1984 Punjab           OGDC              x                                       - 1/         -R                                   -
33. Nari             1985 Sind             Union Texas                              x                 -           -                R                   -
Total: 27.100       ___           101.6               14.98
NOTES:  Ri  Reservoir study underway
1/  Negligible production
2/  Development planned or underway
3/  Condensate field; plans under preparation for pilot productton
4/  Gross reserves' (i.e. reserves not equated to thermal value of the Sul quality gas)
5/  Net of purification losses
6/  Used as feedstock for fertilizer
7/  On appraisal
Source: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources



PRODUCER PRICES OF NATURAL GAS
(RS/MCF)
SuL       Mari                         SarL/Eundi       Pirkoh      meyal      Toot
January 1, 1982       3.34        1.13 (Exxon/Pak Saudi)           0.74            -         2.0        2.0
1.30 (Fauji)
January 1, 1983       5.27        1.46 (Exxon/Pak Saudi)          0.74            -          2.0        2.0
1.66 (Pauji)
November 1, 1983         -            -                                    -                 5.0
January 1, 1984       8.56            -                            -
March 1, 1984            -             -                                         9.31                    -
July 1, 1984             -            -                                           - _                   5.0
January 1, 1985      10.96            -
Source:  Directorate General for Gas, MinLstry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
o M
t      I



NATURAL GAS CONSUMER PRICZS
(RS/MCF)
Consumer                            January 1, 1982      January 9, 1983  June 11, 1983       June 14, 1984
Power                                    12.00                15.34            19.63              23.94
General Industries including
Cement                              13.00                16.34            20.64              24.94
FetilJzer                                10.00                13.34            17.63              21.94
Fixed charge for: (RS/Honth)
Pak American Fertilizer                                    Rs.  390000
Pak Arab Fertilizer                                        Rs. 1435000
Dawood Hercules                                            Rs. 1282285
Domestic
Upto 7.1 MCF/month                       14.00                14.00            16.00              18.00
From 7.1 to 10.65 MCF/month              17.50                17.50            20.00              22.50
Above 10.65 MCF/month                    21.00                21.00            24.00              27.00
Commercial                               22.00                25.34            29.63              33.94
Average                                  1!.00                16.00            20.00              24.00
S
SOURCE: Directorate General for Gas, Kinistry of Petroleum and Natural Resources



-42-
ANNEX V
PAKISTAN
Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project
Estimated Disbursement of Bank Loan
(US$ million)Y
IBRD Fiscal                     Amount                         Cumulative
Year and Quarter                  Disbursed                         Amount
1986     I                           5.0                              5.0
II                           2.1                              7.1
III                           5.5                             12.6
IV                           6.4                             19.0
1987     I                           6.0                             25.0
II                           5.1                             30.1
III                           7.9                             38.0
IV                           5.0                             43.0
1988     I                           4.6                             47.6
II                           3.4                             51.0
III                           2.5                             53.5
IV                           1.5                             15.0
Total                       55.0



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past and Present Finances
Until now, OGDC's activities have been financed almost exclusively by
government funding through the ADP (Annual Development Plan). The contribu-
tion of OGDC's internal resources to its exploration and development
activities has been negligible. In part, this has resulted from the large ex-
ploration and development expenditures which have not yet been matched by
corresponding increases in production. In part, however, it has resulted from
the inadequate prices which it has received for its limited production (in
FY84, 897,000 barrels of oil and 5.5 BCF of gas).
OGDC's consolidated finances for the last four years are summarized
below and shown in detail in attachments 1 and 2.
Fiscal Year            1981        1982      1983         1984
In Million US $
Oil Revenues                  5.86        6.07       3.45        6.97
Gas Revenues                  2.22        3.13       1.49        1.78
Net Income (Loss)           (30.40)    (22.37)   (21.02)         (60.24)
Current Assets              168.39      206.53    165.49         161.20
Total Assets                262.82      308.90    311.06         362.76
Current Liabilities          20.10       16.21      14.75        20.99
Long Term Liabilities        35.35       48.72      53.73        58.31
Total Equity                207.37      243.97    242.58         283.46
Operating Ratio               0.21        0.27       0.16        0.?.
Current Ratio                 8.4        12.74      11.22        7.68
Debt Equity Ratio            15/85       17/83      18/82        17/83
OGDC current revenues derive from: Ci) the sale of gas and conden-
sate from the Pirkoh, Sari and Hundi gas fields; and (ii) the sale of oil and
associated gas from Tande Alam, Adhi, Dhurnal and Toot fields. Gas produced
from Pirkoh, Sari and Hundi is sold to Sui Gas Transmission Company (SGTC);
gas from Toot is sold to SNGPL; oil from Toot, Dhurnal and Adhi is sold to
Attock Refinery Limited and oil from Tando Alam is sold to Pakistan Refinery
Limited in Karachi. FY84 production from each source was as follows:
FY84 OGDC OIL & GAS PRODUCTION
Toot      Dhurnal      Adhi    Pirkoh    Sari/Hundi   Total
Oil (000 BBLS)      803        8          84        -           -           897
Gas (NMCF)        2,770        -           -     1,986         701        5,457



-44-
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Future Finances
With the view towards strengthening the financial position of OGDC,
the Bank reviewed and agreed with the Government and OGDC meaaures to increase
oil and gas produce prices which were provided under Bank Loan 2374-PAL.
These measures which set the oil and gas prices for Toot production at a level
no less favorable than prices paid to private petroleum companies operating in
adjacent areas went into effect on July 1, 1984. As a result Toot oil was in-
creased to US $16.00/Bbl and Toot gas to Rs 51JCF on July 1, 1984. Towards
the end of 1984, production from Tando Alam and Dhurnal began and this oil is
priced at US $20/Bbl and US $25/Bbl respectively. In future, as production
from Tando Alam, Pirkoh, Adhi, Dhurnal and Toot increases, it should be
possible for OGDC to become financially independent for each of its
development operations as well as begin self-financing a share of its
exploration program. Its success in achieving these financial goals will
depend critically on both success in obtaining production from New Joint
Ventures and on full implementation of the new gas pricing provisions
described later in this chapter. Because OGDC has not been a financially
viable company, it has not been able to borrow funds commercially even for
individually economic investments such as Tando Alam development. Over the
next five years, as its overall financial position improves, OGDC should be
able to gradually broaden its access to external finance Layond the mul-
tilateral and bilateral lending agem...ies to include some access to commercial
borrowing. An important objective of the present project is to lay a basis
for such a development. Overall production of oil is expected to increase
from 2,500 B/D in 1984 to 23,000 B/D in 1988; similarly, production of gas is
projected to increase from 15 NMSCF/D in 1984 to 238 MMSCF/D by 1988.
Financial projections over the period FYs 1985-1989 are shown in
attachments, 3, 4, & 5. Consoldiated projected operating results are
siumarized as follows:
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
Sales-Volume
Crude Oil (000 Bbls)      2,648     6,045      7,327     8,385      7,947
Natural Gas (MMCF)       34,779    55,886    79,612    94,293   122,325
Revenues (Million US$)
Crude Oil                 50.00    118.60    142.53    162.27   151.93
Natural Gas               19.47     31.20      41.93     50.00    61.53
Net Income (Loss)          3.07     (9.87)      5.40     16.54    (5.08)
Operating Ratio            0.95      1.09       0.98      0.94      1.05
Funds Flow
OGDC's investment program in the period FY85-MY89 is projected to
total about US$677 million. It has been discussed with the Bank and is
considered a sensible and realistic program which concentrates on the
development of Pirkoh, Tando Alam, Dakhini and Toot as well as expanded
exploration of potentially high yielding prospects adjacent to Tando Alam and
gas prospects such as Loti. Funds provided from operations are expected to
cover about 50Z of the capital investment requirements whereas in the past



-45-                              ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
OGDC'8 contribution to its exploration and development activities have been
negligible. Debt service coverage is projected to be satisfactory and remain
above 2.0 throughout the forecast period.
a



-46-
AN VI
Attaehiiiont I
PAKISTAN
OIL & GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (ODC)
CONSOLtDATED BALANCE SHEET *1
AS OF JUNE 30
(In US S tillion)
1981          1982          1983         1984
ASSETS
Current Asuats
Cash                                                   5.05           9.48          4.86         8.75
Short Term Investmenta                                13.84          35.92         16.00         2.37
Accounts Receivable                                    2.73           6.16          2.51        19.96
Materials & Supplies                                 129.80         128.15        128.86       129.38
Prepaid Expenses                                      16.97          26.82         13.26         0.74
Total Current Assets                            168.39         206.53        165.49       161.20
Property. Plant & Equipment
Producing Properties                                  95.45         107.58        159.45       218.32
Less accumulated depletion                           (19.59)        (23.89)       (29.57)      (35.61)
Net Producing Properties                              76.86          83.69        129.88       182.71
Fixed Assets                                          38.08          41.71         39.45        47.33
Less accumulated depreciation                        (20.51)        (23.03)       (23.76)      (28.49)
Net Fixed Assets                                      17.57          18.68         15.69        18.84
Total P.P.E.                                          94.43         102.37        145.57       201.56
TOTAL ASSETS                                         262.82         308.90        311.uo       162.76
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                      15.05          11.85          9.65        16.02
Current Portion Long Term Debt                         5.05           4.36          5.10         4.97
Total Current Liabilities                        20.10          16.21         14.75       20.99
Long Term Debt                                        35.35          48.72         53.73        58.31
Equity (Government contribution)                     262.22         317.81        324.70       421.36
Accumulated Profit (Loss)                            (54.85)        (73.84)       (82.12)    (137.90)
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                    262.82         308.90        311.06       362.76
Current Ratio                                           8.4          12.74         11.22         7.68
Debt Equity Ratio                                     15/85          17/83         18/82        17/83
a/ At exchange rate of $1 - Rs 9.90 1981
10.55 1982
12.75 1983
13.48 1984



OIL & GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (OGDC)
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
AS OF JUNE 30
(In US $ Million)
1981             1982             1983             1984
INCOME
Crude Oil Sales                              5.86              6.07             3.45             6.97
Natural Gas Sales                            2.22              3.13             1.49             1.78
8.08             9.20             4.94             8.;5
Less:  Royalty                                -                0.76             1.02            0.15
Net Sales Revenues                           8.08              8.44             3.92             8.60
EXPENSES
Production Expenses                          5.76              5.50             2.75             6.46
General & Administrative Expenses            0.91              0.76             0.39             0.96
Interest Expense                             2.42              2.65             6.90             5.86
Dry Hole Costs                              24.85             15.36             5.18           21.88
Depreciation & Depletion                     4.54              6.54             9.72            34.42
Total Operating Expenses                    38.48             30.81            24.94            69.58
OTHER INCOME & (EXPENSE)
Investment Income                             -                 -                -              0.74
Net Income (Loss)                          (30.40)           (22.37)          (21.02)          (60.24)
rt



PAKISTAN
OIL 6 GAS DEVELOPHENT CORPORATION (OGDC)
FORECAST OF CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(In US Killion Dollars)
1985               1986            1987         1988        1989
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                              17.73           14.47            8.11         9.80        8.93
Short Term Investments                           26.67            33.33           66.67       60.00        16.67
Accounts Receivable                               9.53            11.53           14.07        19.27       23.73
Materials & Supplies                            131.33           140.80          140.80       140.80      140.80
Prepaid Expenses                                  0.80             0.93            1.07         1.20        1.33
Total Current Assets                       186.06           201.06          230.72      231.017      19.46
Property, Plant & Equipment
Producing Properties                            297.20           393.00          458.47       528.33      621.40                   a
Less accumulated depletion                     ( 55.53)           84.07)        (119.27)    (159.47)    (202.93)
Net Producing Properties                        241.67           308.93          339.20      368.86       418.47
Fixed Assets                                     93.73           171.53          213.67       240.07      269.47
Less accumulated depreciation                  ( 32.33)           46.73)         (65.13)      (86.00)    (109.80)
Net Fixed Assets                                 61.40           124.80          145.54       154.07      159.67-
Total P.P.E.                                    303.07           433.73          487.74       522.93      578.13
TOTAL ASSETS                                    489.13           634.79          718.46       754.00      769.59
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                  6.47             6.47            6.47         6.47        6.47
Current Portion Long Term Debt                    7.53             9.87           11.20        17.87       20.00
Total Current Liabilities                   14.00            16.33           17.67       24.34        26.47
Long Term Debt                                  113.00           196.87          273.80       286.13      266.60
Equity (Government contribution)                483.00           552.33          552.33      552.33       590.40
Accumulated Profit (Loss)                      (120.87)         (130.74)        (125.34)    (108.80)    (113.88)
TCTAL LIABILITIES                               489.13           634.79          718.46       754.00      769.59             II
Debt Equity Ratio                                 0.24             0.32            0.39         0.39        0.36
Current Ratio                                     13.3             12.6            12.8          9.6         7.3



PAKISTAN
OIL & GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (OGWC)
FORECAST OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME & EXPENSES
(In US Million Dollars)
1985                1986          1987         1988         1989
LNCOME
Crude Oil Sales                                  50.00               118.60        142.53       162.27       151.93
Natural Gas Sales                                19.47                31.20         41.93        50.00        61.53
69.47              149.80        184.46       212.27       213.46
Less:  Royalty                                    6.60                14.20         17.53        20.13        20.27
Excise Duty                                1.20                3.27          4.00         4.00         3.26
Net Sales Revenues                               61.67               132.33        162.93       188.14       189.93
EXPENSES
Production Expetises                             12.60                20.40         23.07        25.87        28.87
General & Administrative Expenses                  1.33                3.27          4.20         4.60         4.67
Interest Expense                                  9.60                13.53         18.20        21.80       26.60
Dry Hole Costs                                    5.00                64.20         61.13        63.60        72.40
Depreciation                                      6.74                14.40         18.40        20.87        23.80
Depletion                                        23.53                28.53         35.20        40.20       43.47
Total Operating Expenses                         58.80               144.33        160.20       176.94       199.81
OTHER INCOME & (EXPENSE)
Investment Income                                 0.20                 2.13          2.67         5.34         4.80
Net Income (Loss)                                 3.07                (9.87)         5.40        16.54        (5.08)
Operating Ratio                                   0.95                 1.09          0.98         0.94         1.05



PAKISTAN
OIL & GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (oGDC)
FORECAST OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(In US Dollars Millions)
1985               1986                 1987                 1988               1989
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Net Income before Interest Payments                  12.67               3.66                23.60                38.34              21.52
Non Cash Items in Earnings:
Depreciation & Oepletion                          30.27               42.93                53.60                61.07             67.27
Funds provided from operatlons                      42.94               46.59                77.20                99.41             88.79
Finaneing Activittes
Long Term Borrowings                                 69.00              93.74                88.13                30.19               0.48
Government Contribution
(F.E. Requirements)                              104.33               59.33             _     _                   -               38.07
Total Financing                                     173.33             163.07                88.13                30.19              38.55
TOTAL SOURCES                                 216.27              209.66               165.33              129.60             127.34
APPLICATION UF FUNDS
Capital Investments                                 167.41             183.20               107.73                96.40             122.60
Changes in Accounts Receivable                       (8.40)              2.00                 2.53                 5.20               4.47
Changes in tccounts Payable                           7.93                -                     -                   -                  -
Changes in Cesh Position                              9.87              (3.27)               (6.33)                1.67              (5.87)
Short Term Investments                               24.53               6.67                33.33                (6.67)            (43.33)
Sub Total                                     201.34              188.60               137.26               96.60              82.87
Debt Service
Loan Amortization                                     5.33               7.53                 9.87                11.20              17.87
Interest                                             9.60               13.53                18.20                21.80              26.60
Total Debt Service                             14.93               21.06                28.07                33.00             44.47
TOTAL APPLICATION                             216.27              209.66               165.33               129.60            127.34
Debt Service Coverage                                  2.8                 2.2                 2.8                  3.0                2.0
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I S   



IBRD 18860
PAKISTAN                                     U.S.R.                 CHINA
OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR                                          1
.W ,Eipbnralon Licensee Aos
-          p~   heas                        <                      ~- 
H      ~OGDC                                          \--'
Joint Venturfs and Companies
oawr thn OGDC
*     011 Fieds
4p    Gas Fieldls
*     Oil Dicoverie'
+     Gas Oicoveries                      ,LAMoMD
oil Pipelines                           N.W FP
Gas Pipelines                                                      DM BE ME
Ak    Rnefinris
o     Selected Towns
.32                           Notional Captcal
PAroince Boundaries                                                             32
Intemratioori Boundaries
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-2Vtt                                BALUCHISTAN                               DionNDI
7              /_l7IND   d                                    _-J_|__-~~~~~~~~~IDL
h~7                                            .
N                                                                                     _____________OF___IRAN_____
MAY 1985



