Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4088 
Project Name 
Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Crops (100%) 
Project ID 
P113268 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE (MEF) 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Guinea 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
National Directorate of Ministry of Agriculture,  
Guinea 
Tel: (224) 46 40 23 
Fax: (224) 46 40 31 
pacv@afribone.net.gn 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 15, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
August 20, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Guinea, in the middle of the traditional West African “rice belt”, has a long history of low 
input traditional paddy production and a diversified set of production environments, each of 
which has a different mix of issues in terms of potential benefits to the intensification of 
production (see Table x below).  Only about 5 percent of producers use improved seed varieties 
and the use of fertilizer is even less.  A concerted effort is needed to increase the productivity of 
these systems. 
 
Hillside rice makes up over 60 % of estimated paddy area.  The  other, “non-hillside” 
production systems (numbers 2-4 in Table x) should all be thought of  as “partially irrigated” or 
“partial water control” systems, even when improved water control is not used in that system. In 
some of these systems it may be possible over time to develop full or nearly full water control, 
which can allow for paddy yields of up to 5 or 6 tons/HA or more when using improved seed and 
substantial doses of concentrated nitrogen-rich fertilizers such as urea (as regularly demonstrated 
at the 
Office du Niger
 in Mali). Thus, if all the “improvable areas” (from the 2001 Small Scale 
Irrigation study) were actually improved and producing, for example, an average of 3 or 4 
tons/HA, total national rice production could be substantially increased and the most 
environmentally negative and low-yielding hillside sites could be left permanently fallow or 
changed to other, less erosion-prone crop uses 
 
Page  2
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of this component is to increase rice yields by 30% on 1,000 hectares of 
irrigated rice during the 2008-09 dry season (
contre-saison)
,
i.e. November  2008-March 2009) 
and 35,000  hectares or rain fed rice during the 2009-10 cropping season (June 
–
October 2009).  
This will result in an additional 80,000 tons of paddy rice production – about a 10% increase in 
overall production - increasing smallholder incomes and increasing the availability of locally-
grown rice.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Food insecurity is a chronic phenomenon in Guinea.  In spite of a strong agricultural 
potential, the country imports approximately a third of its rice needs.  The World Food Program 
(WFP) estimates that 6 percent of households are severely food insecure.  Acute malnutrition 
affects 9 percent of Guinean children.  Food insecurity is linked to poverty, which affects 54 
percent of the population.  There is concern that higher prices could lead to a decline in the 
quantity and quality of food consumption, and lead to higher rates of acute malnutrition, 
especially during the current lean season.  This risks exacerbating an already fragile political 
situation with potential for increased unrest and violence. 
 
It is in this context that the Bank is proposing a three-pronged food emergency response 
program for Guinea.  The first component of this program consists of a new e
 
Food Crisis 
Response
 
Development Policy Grant aimed at providing the authorities with needed fiscal space 
to compensate for the loss of revenues resulting from the temporary reduction of customs duties 
on low-quality rice, while targeting the reductions to the poorest consumers.  The second 
component of this program proposes a labor-intensive urban public works program aimed at 
providing employment and income to the poorest households in the most affected areas.  The 
third component of this program is a new agricultural productivity project that would finance the 
distribution of improved seeds, fertilizer and technical assistance to boost rice production.  
 
The proposed emergency food crisis response program is consistent with the Bank’s new 
Global Food Response Program (GFRP), which aims at allowing a comprehensive and rapid 
response to the crisis across a range of different instruments.  The GFRP provides an overall 
framework for the Bank to coordinate its own contribution to addressing the crisis in partnership 
with other multi-lateral organizations and donor agencies 
 
4. Description 
 
There will be three activities: 
 
(i) Support for the production of  2000 tons of  improved and certified seed during the 
2008-09 rainy and 
contre-saison
 through a scaling up of the existing farmer seed 
multiplication network and the purchase, treatment, and stocking of the seed for 
distribution during the 2009-10 cropping season; 
 
(ii) Purchase of 2000 tons of fertilizer and 20,000 liters of herbicides and pesticides; 
Page  3
(iii) Distribution of input packets (seed, fertilizer, herbicide/pesticide) though the existing 
farmer organization networks and support for advisory services necessary. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
5 
 Total 
5 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project will be implemented over a 18-month period from August 2008 to February 
2009.  A detailed action plan is attached below 
 
7.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
This emergency operation triggers two safeguard policies: The Environmental 
Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) and the Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09), predicated on program 
objectives to increase agricultural production and productivity with the provision of certified 
seeds and fertilizers to rice producers.  An exception to the normal practice of having the EA 
requirements completed prior to appraisal is specifically granted. This exception is permissible 
under OP 4.01, paragraph 12 and OP 8.00. The project will prepare a combined Environment and 
Pest Management Plan to be submitted to the Bank within 90 days of signing the grant 
agreement.  
7. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jane C. Hopkins 
Title: Senior Agriculture Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5887 
Fax: (202) 614-5887 
Email: jhopkins1@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Page  4
