                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28022

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-29150 PPFI-P9960)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                 NIGER

                FOR A HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HEALTH II)




                                               June 7, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Franc CFA (XOF)
                                    XOF 525 = US$ 1
                                      US$ 1 = XOF 0.0019

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        African Development Bank
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDF        Comprehensive Development Framework
CFA       Franc CFA (Communaute finaciere africaine)
CHD        Regional Hospital
CSI        Centre de Sante Integre
DAC        Development Assistance Committee
DAF        Directorate of Financial Affairs
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DDS        Departmental Health Directorate
DEP        Directorate of Studies and Planning
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
DRSP       Regional Directorate Public Health
DF/GP      Directorate of Training and Personnel Management
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GTZ        Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
HD         District Hospital
HIPC       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HNP        Health, Nutrition, Population
HQ         Headquarters
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MAP        Multi-country AIDS Project
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MOH, MOPH  Ministry of Health
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR        Mid-term Review
ODA       Oficial Development Assistance
OECD       Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
ONPPC      National Chemical and Pharmaceutical Products Bureau
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDS       National Health Sector Development Plan

PIU, PCU   Project Implementation/Coordination Unit
PMA        Minimum Package of Services
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR        Project Status Report
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
QER        Quality Enhancement Review
SIP        Sector Investment Program
SPA        Strategic Partnership with Africa
SWAp       Sector-wide Approach
TB, TBC    Tuberculosis
TTL        Task Team Leader
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA      United Nations Population Fund
WBI        World Bank Institute
WHO, OMS   World Health Organization



                             Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                           Country Director    Pedro Alba
                            Sector Manager     Alexandre V. Abrantes
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Markus Repnik

                                                 NIGER
                HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HEALTH II)


                                              CONTENTS




                                                                                        Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                           1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   15
   6. Sustainability                                                                       17
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        18
   8. Lessons Learned                                                                      21
   9. Partner Comments                                                                     22
   10. Additional Information                                                              22
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    27
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    30
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    34
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       35
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   36
   Annex 8. Project Objectives, Components, and Subcomponents                              38
   Annex 9. Regional Scope: Choice and Expansion of Districts                              39
   Annex 10. Insufficient Clarity of Objectives                                            40
   Annex 11. Assessment of Project Outcome and Output Indicators                           41
   Annex 12. Niger Health System - A System in a Precarious Situation                      42
   Annex 13. Data Supporting Assessment of Niger's Health System                           43
   Annex 14. Degree of Functioning of Health Infrastructures Visited During ICR Mission    47
   Annex 15. Problems Surrounding Health Care Staff                                        48
   Annex 16. Unsatisfactory Efficiency Infrastructure Subcomponents                        49
   Annex 17. Outputs and Activities Planned/Realized                                       51
   Annex 18. Translated Summary Government Report                                          52

MAP(S)
IBRD 27872

   "At the end of the day only results in the field count. We have an obligation to be more
  systematic about identifying what gets results, intensifying our support for partnerships
                        that deliver results, and measuring and reporting on these results."

                                                                        James Wolfensohn


The increased international focus on development results is of key importance if the
MDGs are to be achieved by 2015. Countries need to focus on results in order to design
better strategies and make better policy decisions. The World Bank and other
development agencies need to focus on results in order to provide the support that makes
the difference in the lives of people in client countries.

Given this importance, the ICR tried to assess the project from a strong results
perspective. It is acknowledged that applying today's knowledge and focus on results in
judging a project designed in the mid 1990s might lead to unfavorable ICR ratings,
despite the demonstrated level of efforts by the Government and the Bank.

Project ID: P001999                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Development Program
Team Leader: Markus Repnik                                           TL Unit: OPCCS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 7, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Development Program                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-29150; PPFI-P9960
   Country/Department: NIGER                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Decentralization (P); Other
                            communicable diseases (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/26/1994                                     Effective: 01/06/1997                07/29/1997
     Appraisal: 03/12/1996                                         MTR:                             05/08/2000
      Approval: 09/05/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF NIGER/MIN HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Helena Ribe
Team Leader at ICR:             Djibrilla Karamoko                             Denise A. Vaillancourt
ICR Primary Author:             Markus Repnik; Remo Meloni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

As stated in the Development Credit Agreement, signed in September 1996, the objective of the US $40
million IDA credit was to assist the borrower in improving the health condition of its population, through
the improvement of (i) quality and coverage of basic health services (ii) access of the population to
essential generic drugs; and (iii) efficiency of agencies operating in its health sector through strengthening
management at central government and local levels, and through the participation of the private sector and
the population in the delivery of health care services.

The project was designed as a Sector Investment Program (SIP), intended to make a significant
contribution to the National Health Sector Development Plan (PDS) 1994-2000 (US $40 million to a
planned total of US $275.5 million for the 1997-2001 period). IDA assessed that quality and detail of the
PDS provided sufficient basis to opt for a SIP approach.

The PDS was complemented by the national health sector policy that aimed at ensuring continued
improvement of the population's health through (i) decentralization of basic health care services; (ii)
increased efficiency of preventive health care; (iii) rationalization of health services management; (iv)
introduction of partial cost recovery; (v) increased accessibility and service quality at all levels; and (vi)
effective inter-sectoral collaboration to solve environmental problems. The national health sector policy and
PDS, with support from the project, intended to turn the health system around toward basic health care by
empowering districts.

The project was expected to have a special focus on the poor and vulnerable groups by (i) significantly
improving the availability and affordability of essential generic drugs for the poor; and (ii) identifying
districts for improving service coverage.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of three components: (i) improving the quality and coverage of basic health services
(79% of total planned costs); (ii) improving the access of the population to essential generic drugs (9% of
total costs); and (iii) improving sector effectiveness and efficiency by building capacity and forging
partnerships in support of health sector reform (12% of total costs).

The project components had a national and/or regional scope. The regional project area was defined as five
districts in two regions in the eastern part of the country, namely Diffa (districts of Diffa and Maine-Soroa)
and Zinder (districts of Goure, Tanout, and Mirriah). The DCA explicitly stated that additional districts
might be added during project implementation.

The relative importance of the three project components was not stated, but based on the original budget
allocation, significant importance was given to the construction (rehabilitation, expansion, new
construction) and purchase of equipment of the health care infrastructure within component one.




                                                       - 2 -

Annex 8 provides a more detailed overview about project objectives, components and sub-components
including the respective regional scope.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were not revised, but major changes were made through a significant expansion of
the regional project area. The scope of the project was expanded from five to 14 districts without increasing
the project budget, enlarging the project area by more than 260% in terms of targeted population reaching
about 40% of Niger's overall population.

The expansion of the project area occurred in three phases: (i) In October 1996, one month after signing the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), two districts were added. These districts should have been
supported by The Netherlands, but given their withdrawal after the coup d'etat of January 1996, the
districts were left without external support; (ii) In September 1997, it was agreed to add six additional
districts. This decision was linked to the closure of IDA's population project (IDA Cr. 1668-NIR) which
left several district hospitals unfinished and unequipped (see section 7.2); (iii) In November 1998, IDA
agreed to add Nguigmi as an additional district so that all districts of the Diffa region were covered by the
project.

These major revisions were not approved by the World Bank Board as the relatively broad DCA stated the
possibility of the inclusion of additional districts. Annex 9 provides a more detailed overview about the
choice and expansion of districts.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Unsatisfactory. At the time of project preparation, the Bank QER/QAG process was not established. The
unsatisfactory ICR rating of quality at entry is based on the following: (i) inadequacy of project design
despite the right SIP vision; (ii) insufficient clarity and limited realism of objectives; (iii) insufficient focus
on results; and (iv) insufficient level of readiness for implementation and assessment of risks and
sustainability.

(i) Design appropriateness

The PDS and the project had the right vision. Both put the right emphasis on the importance of a
country-owned sector strategy, decentralization, the development of horizontal services, and donor
coordination in a SIP framework. At the time of appraisal, the project was in line with PDS and CAS
priorities. Project design was also consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies.

However, it can be concluded that the PDS and the project design had important shortcomings: (i) despite
the emphasis put on the flexibility needed to further develop the PDS and SIP approach, the project design
concentrated on an overly detailed preset series of inputs, e.g. defining up front, all necessary training for
health care staff to be conducted during implementation; (ii) the health sector reform was guided by "norms
and standards," prepared by the MOH with IDA assistance during preparation. These norms included the
size of health infrastructure, but the size of health centers appears to be too large (see project efficiency in
section 4.1). The fact that the project followed these norms implied significant spending on over-expanding
existing health infrastructure and limited the project's ability to regularly reconsider priorities during
implementation; (iii) despite the objective to improve health care quality, an explicit definition of how
increased quality would be measured was not made in the PDS and PAD; (iv) the PDS and project rightly
envisioned to bring essential care close to the population through the development of decentralized and



                                                        - 3 -

integrated district health services. But it appears that the interdependency of reforms at the district level and
the central MOH level was overlooked as project design heavily focused on the district level reforms and
not enough on the central level of MOH in an effort to address systemic country-wide sector bottlenecks.
These design shortcomings also characterized, in part, other Bank HNP operations during the 1990s.

(ii) Clarity and realism of objectives

Insufficient clarity of objectives. The PAD did not define a project objective, but took the PDS objectives,
referred to as "program objectives." Yet, the PDS objectives stated in the PAD did not fully correspond to
the PDS objectives stated in the national PDS document. During project preparation, IDA agreed with the
Government to cluster a set of PDS and sector policy objectives together and to exclude other PDS
objectives. This re-definition and reduction of PDS objectives for project purposes was not mentioned in
the PAD. While the PAD did not have a project objective, the DCA and the Memorandum of the President
had one, rightly reducing the project objective to a contribution to the PDS. Yet the project objectives
stated in these two documents were also not fully coherent. For example, according to the PAD, the
objective concerning essential generic drugs was to improve their availability. The DCA stated that the
objective was to improve access of the population to these drugs. Improving access requires different and
more far-reaching activities than improving drug availability. Another example is the objective to support
the Government in the coordination of aid in PDS implementation. This objective was stated in the
Memorandum of the President, but not stated in the PAD or in the DCA, and no explicit activities had been
planned to achieve this objective. Annex 10 summarizes objectives stated in the PDS, health sector policy,
PAD, Memorandum of the President, and DCA.

Limited realism concerning scope and speed of health sector reform in light of country implementation
capacities. The PDS and the project had very ambitious reform objectives concerning decentralization and
strengthening of the district level - namely to "reorient incentives and accountability so that higher levels
of MOPH administration will be serving and supporting the peripheral levels rather than the reverse" -
These objectives, demanding a range of policy and institutional reforms involving a number of
organizations at the national, regional, and district level, were expected to be achieved in a short period of
time in a country with very limited capacities and which, in addition, experienced a coup d'etat during the
project preparation phase. Project design included a significant amount of construction, a decision that
probably did not sufficiently take into account capacity constraints in the construction sector and relatively
limited internal fiduciary control systems in the country, according to WBI governance indicators. It
appears that the complexity of human and institutional challenges to bring about fundamental health sector
reform were somewhat underestimated and that the lessons learned from the ICR of the previous IDA
health operation (Credit 1668-NIR), namely that objectives should be sufficiently modest and that
institutional capacity is the most constraining factor, were not fully taken into account.

(iii) Focus on results

Given the differences among the PDS and project objectives stated in different documents, it was not
clear how best to manage project implementation from a results perspective. Given the fact that the DCA
is the legally binding document, the objectives stated in the DCA were followed to assess the results of the
project (see section 4.1).

Limited appropriateness of chosen indicators. The choice of indicators reflected more the traditional focus
on activities and outputs, and included only one correctly chosen outcome indicator, the utilization rate. For
this indicator, targets were set and baseline data was available, but for many other indicators this was
missing. Annex 11 provides an assessment of project outcome and output indicators stated in the PAD.


                                                       - 4 -

Choice of the original project area did not fully correspond to the project's special focus on the poor and
vulnerable groups, as the area's five districts were in two regions with a lower than average poverty rate as
indicated by the 1996 poverty assessment. Hence, there appears to be a design contradiction between the
project's stated special poverty focus and the criteria agreed to with the Government. These criteria,
governing the choice of project-supported districts, did not consider the district's poverty aspects.

(iv) Readiness for implementation and assessment of risks and sustainability

Insufficient implementation readiness. The preparation of the project was a lengthy process (concept
review in April 1994, approval in September 1996) and relatively well-funded (US $868,000 including
trust fund resources, see Annex 4) supporting the Government in further developing the PDS. However,
questions regarding whether the project was ready to be implemented can be raised, given the fact that: (i)
the project design included many conditions that partially contributed to the 10- month time lag between
project approval and effectiveness; (ii) the PDS and the project were designed under the assumption of
significant donor contributions to finance PDS implementation. But the project did not consider the trend
since the early 1990s of reduced aid to Niger. Aid per-capita has decreased by about 50% over the last
decade; (iii) the design did not adequately consider the implications of the coup d'etat 1996; and (iv) a
comprehensive and in-depth capacity assessment, including financial management and procurement
capacity of MOH directorates responsible for project implementation, was not undertaken, given the
correct identification of significant sector capacity constraints.

Inadequate assessment of sustainability. The economic analysis of the PDS in the PAD calculated that by
the end of the project all recurrent costs would be covered through national contributions. Given the
significant amount of IDA-financed investments in infrastructure and equipment, within Niger's
macro-economic context, this assumption was not realistic.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Unsatisfactory. Despite significant inputs (IDA provided about 1/3 of all sector aid over the previous
seven years) and remarkable efforts, project outcome and achievement of objectives are rated
unsatisfactory. The following methodology has been applied for the assessment:

First, given that the project was designed as a contribution to the PDS, an overview of the current health
system in Niger, based on key determinants of health outcomes, has been prepared. It demonstrates that
Niger's health system is in a precarious situation with alarmingly poor health outcomes. Life expectancy at
birth is estimated at 45 years, and infant mortality is very high at an estimated 126 per 1,000 births. An
estimated 265 out of every 1,000 children die before the age of five, and malnutrition under the age of five
is increasing and affects 40% of all children. Annex 12 provides a more detailed visual overview and
Annex 13 shows the supporting data indicating the changes over the previous years.

Second, this contribution was assessed using the six determinants of health outcomes that reflect the
project objectives and the only project outcome indicator (see Annex 11): (i) utilization rate of basic
health services; (ii) coverage rate of services; (iii) access to essential generic drugs; (iv) quality of basic
health services; (v) participation of the private sector and the population in the delivery of health care
services; and (vi) management efficiency of health sector organizations. The assessment included the
contribution in all 14 districts of the expanded project area as expansion decisions were taken in the early



                                                        - 5 -

phases of project implementation.

Third, as these six determinants of health outcomes were not clearly defined in the PDS and the PAD, the
following criteria (see figure) have been used for the assessment:


                                      Criteria to assess outcome / achievement of objectives


                                                                           Utilization
                                                        · CSI new consultations per inhabitant per year




                                                                      Service quality
                                                  · Personnel technical and socio-cultural competences:
                             Able to establish trustful relations, belong to the community, accountable to the population, able to
                                                  do correct diagnosis and treatment, permanently available
                                                                    · Organization of care :
                                            Waiting time, team work, outreach to risk groups, integration of care
                                                                       · Access to drugs
                                                                   · Buildings & equipment:
                                                              Basic functionality, socially adapted
                                                                       · Referral system:
                                          CSI & HD as integrated system, well functioning CSIs & HDs prerequisite




                      Coverage                             Management
                      · Potential geographic               Efficiency
                      coverage                             · Priority setting in          Participation                    Access to drugs
                      · Real geographic                    Resource constraint            ·Forms of participation:         · Availability of
                      coverage:                            environment                    Financial contribution,          essential generic drugs
                      Personnel in place, no               · Addressing systemic          contributions in work,           · Financial and socio-
                      out of stock drug,                   health sector bottlenecks      management contributions,        cultural accessibility
                      infrastructure &                                                    contracting out of services      to essential generic
                      equipment                            · Health personnel
                                                           management                     ·Stakeholder Groups:             drugs
                      · Real coverage from                                                Private sector, NGO's
                      clients' perspective:                · Public health                CBO's, Individuals
                      Financial & socio-                   expenditures
                      cultural accessibility               · Donor sector
                                                           performance &
                                                           contributions




The assessment of the achievement of project outcome and objectives is made along these criteria and based
on the data in Annex 1 and Annex 13, but also on empirical evidence the ICR team gained during an
extended field mission including visits to more than 20 health centers and district hospitals in all regions of
the project area. The chosen criteria reflect the strong ICR focus on results. The ICR, in its overall
assessment, made the distinction between the demonstrated level of efforts of the Government and the Bank
and the actual achievement of outcome and objectives. If other criteria, giving more weight to efforts and
processes, were used, the rating might be different.

(i) Significant decrease in the utilization rate in most of the 14 project districts

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: PDS and the PAD did not explicitly define how
utilization of basic health care services would be measured. The ICR follows the criterion introduced at the
MTR, namely new consultations per inhabitant per year for district health centers. The utilization rate is
the only demand-side criterion, hence it is the most important criterion to assess project outcome and
achievement of objectives (see visual above summarizing the interplay of all the assessment criteria).

Country-wide, utilization of basic health care services is still very low but increased from 18% to 24%
between 1996 and 2002/2003. Although there seem to be some reliability questions concerning this data



                                                                              - 6 -

(possible double-counting in at least two districts), the overall trend is clear.

Project contribution: The utilization rate in most of the 14 project-supported districts decreased
significantly, on average by 38%, between 1996 and 2002/2003. In 13 out of the 14 districts, the
utilization rate for curative care dropped, and for the only district that showed an increase (N'guigmi) data
does not seem reliable. Preliminary data for 2003 indicates a further decline of the utilization rate in several
districts. During field visits to the health centers, the ICR team was able to confirm with field personnel
these very low utilization rates.

The utilization rate in the 14 project-supported districts is also low for family planning, immunization,
pre-natal care, and nutrition consultation. Utilization of family planning services decreased in 13 districts,
with a major decrease in 7 districts. In 11 project districts, the number of completely vaccinated children is
in decline. The utilization rate of prenatal care decreased in 7 districts, and in the Zinder region where the
project heavily invested in infrastructure and equipment (47% of all rehabilitated CSIs, 54% of all newly
constructed CSIs, and 38% of all rehabilitated and constructed district hospitals are in this region) prenatal
services utilization decreased on average by 13%. While at the national level maternal mortality is slightly
declining, in 5 out of 8 project-supported districts with available data, maternal mortality seems to be
increasing. Finally, the utilization rate for nutrition consultations decreased in project districts on average
by about 20%.

The impact of the project-financed new health centers is not fully considered yet in the utilization rate
data, as most of the newly constructed health centers were only finalized in October and November 2003.
Hence, it can be expected that the utilization rate might increase if improvements in the other criteria that
determine the utilization rate can be achieved.

The main reasons for the decreasing utilization rate in the project-supported districts seem to be: (i) poor
service quality and reputation of the existing and rehabilitated CSIs as perceived by the users and indicated
in the 2003 Beneficiary Survey (see below); (ii) no permanent services as health personnel are frequently
out for training or have left the CSIs - fluctuation in project-supported districts is higher than in other
districts (see below); and (iii) decreased financial accessibility due to the form of the introduced cost
recovery scheme - while cost recovery has been introduced country-wide, data indicates that cost recovery
might have been more forcefully implemented in project-supported districts.
.
(ii) In project-financed districts, increased potential geographic coverage did not transform into
increased accessibility so far.

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: PDS and PAD did not exactly define the criteria
to assess the increase in coverage of basic health services, hence the ICR used the following criteria: (i)
potential geographic coverage defined as the population who lives within 5 km of a health center; (ii) real
geographical coverage, assessing if these new health centers are functioning, measured by the following
quantitative criteria: sufficient personnel in place, no out of stock drugs for the most essential drugs,
infrastructure and equipment in place; and (iii) real coverage from clients' perspectives, i.e. considering
financial and socio-cultural accessibility of basic health care services.

Country-wide, potential geographic coverage increased from 32% to 48% between 1996 and 2002, but it
appears that the increase in potential coverage did not fully transform into increased accessibility.
Although the potential geographic coverage data does not appear to be fully reliable (in several districts the
"Case de Santé", small health centers with a limited function, seem to be included) the overall trend of
increased potential coverage is obvious. Yet this increase in potential coverage did not fully transform into


                                                        - 7 -

real geographic coverage as several of the newly constructed facilities, including facilities financed by other
donors, are not fully functioning. In addition, financial accessibility seems to be limited (negative impact of
cost recovery as implemented, see below) and there appear to be socio-cultural access barriers (e.g. health
care staff not able to establish long-lasting and trustful relationships with patients, see below).

The project contributed to the increase of potential geographic coverage in seven districts through the
construction of 50 health centers. In the project-supported districts, the coverage rate increased from 27%
to 30%, yet, according to the 2004 National Project Evaluation report, this increase does not include the 50
project-financed health centers. Given that no data is available about the increase in potential geographic
coverage, the ICR estimates, based on data collected during the field visits, that the project helped to
increase potential geographic coverage for up to 300,000 people.

However, at the time of the ICR mission, most of the project-financed health centers and district hospitals
were either (i) closed, (e.g. all 10 new health centers in the Diffa region - lack of drugs); (ii) not
functioning, (e.g. operating theatres in 9 of the 13 district hospitals not used due to lack of surgeons,
anesthesists, radiologists); or (iii) only partially functioning. A limited number of financed infrastructures
were fully functioning (1 out of 9 project-financed CSIs visited during the ICR mission - Annex 14
provides a more detailed overview). Taking into account this ratio as well as the number of currently closed
new CSIs it can be estimated that the project increased real geographic coverage for about 27,000 people
so far. Considering that most of the new CSIs were only recently finalized it can be expected that the
project's contribution to real geographic coverage will increase. Yet, transforming geographic coverage into
real coverage from the clients' perspective will remain a major challenge, given the above mentioned
problems concerning financial and socio-cultural accessibility.

(iii) Limited access to essential generic drugs in project-supported districts

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: The PAD defined the number and duration of
out of stock drugs as an indicator to measure access to essential generic drugs. The ICR applied the
following criteria for its assessment: (i) availability of essential generic drugs, reflecting the PAD indicator;
(ii) financial and socio-cultural accessibility.

Country-wide, though slightly improving, there is still restricted availability of the most essential generic
drugs. While drug availability is a major problem, the bigger issue seems to be the limited access to
essential generic drugs. This is linked to limited financial accessibility due to the current form of the cost
recovery mechanism (see below). The 2002 Participatory Poverty Assessment revealed that for the poor,
the affordability of drugs was among the three greatest weaknesses of Niger's health system, substantiating
the country's PRSP objective of ensuring that essential drugs are available at affordable prices.

Project contribution: Access to the most essential generic drugs in the 14 project supported districts
slightly improved but is still limited:


  Out of stock criteria                                                     1997  2003  Assessment

  Average number of days the 20 most essential drugs are out of stock        83   54    35% improvement

  Number of 20 most essential drugs that are not out of stocks               4    1      400% decline

  Number of most essential drugs that are out of stock for more than 30 days 11   12     9% decline

  Maximum number of days most essential drugs are out of stock               360  150    42% improvement




                                                               - 8 -

In addition to these problems, one can conclude, given the significant decline in the utilization of health
centers in the project-supported districts, that access to generic drugs in the 14 districts has also decreased.

(iv) Poor quality of basic health care services and major problems concerning health care staff

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: PDS and PAD did not explicitly define how
improved quality would be measured. The ICR used the following criteria for its assessment:

Criteria             Priority CSI                                               HD

Staff competencies:     1     § Able to establish trustful relations with       § Technically competent
socio-cultural and               patients and community                             (e.g. surgery)
technical                     § Belongs to the community (e.g. personnel        § Permanently available
                                 stays for long periods)
                              § Accountable to the population, no civil
                                 servant mentality
                             § Able to do correct diagnosis and treatments
                             § Permanently available

Access to drugs         2     § Permanent availability of most essential drugs ­ no out of stock drugs
                             § Financial and socio-cultural accessibility, i.e. affordable and accessible for
                                 all patients

Organization of care    3     § Waiting time                                    § Waiting time
                              § Team work                                       § Team work
                              § Outreach to risk groups
                              § Integration of care

Buildings and           4     § Buildings and equipment provide basic           § Some parts of the
equipment                        functionality, but what is important is what       hospital have to respond
                                 is done inside                                     to high technical
                              § Socially adapted in order to increase socio-        standards.
                                 cultural accessibility

Referral System         5     § CSI and HD function in a complementary way as an integrated system
                             § Well functioning hospitals and CSIs are the pre-requisite


Country-wide, patients perceive the quality of health care services as poor. While coverage, access to
drugs, management effectiveness of health sector organizations and participation are important, they are
not sufficient contributors for increased utilization of health services. Service quality is the key. According
to the 2002 Participatory Poverty Assessment, the poor rated the quality at reception as one of the three
greatest weaknesses of the health system. "Producing" quality health care services is a multi-faceted
process. According to the 2003 Beneficiary Survey, availability of health care personnel able to establish
trustful and continuous relationships with the community and to provide adequate quality service is the
most important factor in developing quality health care services.

Yet, health care personnel is the country's major bottleneck for improved quality. While PDS and PAD
identified this issue, it appears that problems surrounding health care staff have increased over the recent
years: (i) significant shortage of health care staff, especially in more rural and remote districts, also linked
to the 1999 law on retirement which led to the situation where many experienced health sector staff left and
were not adequately replaced; (ii) dependency on expatriate staff, particularly medical doctors; (iii) delays
in salary payments; (iv) too high specialization of health care staff; (v) nonexistence of an adequate
incentive system to reward staff working in rural and remote areas; (vi) extremely high and increasing staff
mobility; (vii) civil servant mentality; (viii) varying staff technical and socio-cultural competency; (ix)
education and training approaches to a certain degree are not adapted to staff learning needs,
over-emphasizing formal classroom training that provides an opportunity for health personnel to acquire
per diems to make up for the low salary. Annex 15 provides a more detailed overview.

Project contribution. Acknowledging its importance, the project tried to improve service quality by (i)
first improving buildings and equipment of 43 existing health centers before financing new constructions;




                                                                           - 9 -

(ii) mainstreaming a quality assurance approach in 3 regions of the project area; (iii) consistently trying to
ensure that an adequate number of health care staff would be placed in the respective districts; and (iv)
heavily investing in the training of health care staff.

Yet it appears that these inputs did not translate into significant improvement in service quality. In
addition to the above mentioned points of limited functionality of CSIs and HDs, limited access to drugs,
and not explicitly defining what health care quality would constitute and how to best improve it, the project
(i) was not successful, despite some efforts made, in helping the Government to effectively address the
major problems surrounding health care staff, resulting in poor quality of health care services and
ultimately in poor health outcomes; (ii) did not develop and implement fully appropriate learning
approaches for health care personnel (see section 4.2). Most CSI health care staff seem not to be able to
establish trustful relationships with patients and the community, given the high fluctuation rate. In the
project-supported districts, 48% of the staff left their post after having received training, with a significant
increase in turnover since 2000, compared to 36% in districts outside the project area.

An example is the project's attempt to introduce a quality assurance culture for CSIs. The purpose of this
approach was to train CSI service providers to identify and solve problems. This training was not delivered
in a work-based and hands-on manner, directly supporting specific CSIs as a whole in improving service
quality, but was mainly organized through a series of formal training. While health care staff might have
improved their individual skills, it appears that these skills and the quality assurance approach have not
been properly integrated into how CSIs organize their care.

Hence, the 2003 Beneficiary Survey indicates that service quality remains the major concern: 31.5%
have a positive view concerning the quality of services offered, compared to 25% in the first Beneficiary
Survey of 1997. This increase is acknowledged, but is not significant considering the important resources
dedicated to improving quality. In addition, patients do not feel respected and they feel poorly received.
According to 85.8% of the beneficiaries interviewed, the biggest need is to improve quality.

(v) Current form of cost recovery might create negative impact and reflects limited efficiency of
participation approach

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: PDS and PAD did not fully and explicitly
define how participation of the private sector and the population in the delivery of health care services
should be implemented. The ICR differentiated in its assessment between (i) different forms of
participation, i.e. financial contribution, contributions in work, management contributions, and contracting
out of services; and (ii) different stakeholder groups, i.e. formal and informal private sector, NGOs,
community-based organizations, and individuals.

Country-wide, the current form of cost recovery has led to a slight improvement of drug availability, but
also contributes to low utilization of health services especially among the poor. Two studies support this
assessment: (i) the 2002 Participatory Poverty Assessment confirms that most people did not derive
benefits from the public health services offered, due to their low income. Hence, reducing consultation fees
was one of the most expressed needs by the poor; (ii) according to the 2003 Beneficiary Survey, only
20.5% of the beneficiaries believe that the current cost recovery system is a way to improve the health
sector.

Even contraceptives are on cost recovery. This, in the country with the highest fertility rate worldwide, a
country where more than 60% of the population lives in poverty, and a country where it appears that a
large segment of the population wants to reduce the number of its children: data from the 2003 Beneficiary


                                                      - 10 -

Survey indicate that 40% want to have between two and three children against 23% who want to have six
or more children.

Project contribution: The negative impact of cost recovery, as practiced, appears to have been more
severe in the project supported districts as cost recovery seems to have been more forcefully introduced in
these districts. As mentioned above, data on cost recovery in selected regions indicate that the relative
increase in cost recovery revenues between 1998 and 2000 was higher in project-supported regions. In
order to limit the negative impact of cost recovery on the poor, the project supported the creation of CSI
management committees that can decide to waive consultation fees for the poor. However, it appears that
this approach did not succeed in overcoming the exclusion of the poor.

The heavy emphasis by the Government on cost recovery mirrors a too narrow focus on financial
participation of the population. Non-financial participation through contribution in work was limited to the
requirement of the population to build walls around the rehabilitated or newly constructed health
infrastructures. Concerning participation in the management of health services, the 2003 Beneficiary
Survey indicates that 37% of the established community management structures in the project-supported
districts are functional, which is a good achievement, but that they are too much focused on the
administration of the cost recovery scheme instead of bridging the gap between the CSI and the community.
Finally, attention to strengthening effective community participation decreased at a later stage of the
project, as demonstrated in 2003 when the resources were spent on infrastructure at the expense of
supporting and training of CSI management committee members.

Private sector participation in project-financed districts had a relatively narrow focus. At the outset,
formal private sector participation was limited. In order to increase community and private sector
participation, the project introduced the "contracting out" of services, but it appears that it was not able to
adequately increase effective collaboration between the public health sector and formal private health care
services (229 formal private health structures country-wide in 2003, 17% of them located in rural areas) as
well as informal private sector services (traditional healers). Formal private health centers and clinics were
not considered in coverage plans that, for example, led to the decision to fully equip the Konni district
hospital located less than 50 km from a well functioning missionary hospital.

The ICR concludes that the project achieved to a limited extent its objective to increase efficiency of
private sector and population participation in the delivery of health care services. In particular, there
seems to be an urgent need to re-think individual and community participation which goes beyond the
project-financed districts. This is a national issue, linked to the PRSP objective of creating financially
affordable and equitable access to the health system for the poor in order to improve health outcomes.

(vi) Limited efficiency and performance of sector organizations, low public expenditures on health
and limited donor sector performance

Criteria to assess outcome and achievement of objective: The PAD did not sufficiently define how
management efficiency of health sector organizations would be assessed. The chosen indicators, namely the
number of annual plans prepared, the number of planning meetings, annual recurrent expenditures of
district health facilities, and the financial contributions of key financiers either do not seem to be
appropriate or have not been adequately tracked or reported in PSRs (see Annex 11). In an effort to assess
this variable, the ICR applied the following additional criteria: (i) ability of national sector organizations to
set priorities in a resource constraint environment; (ii) their ability to effectively address systemic health
sector bottlenecks at the adequate level; (iii) efficiency of personnel management, (iv) public expenditures
on health; (v) donor sector performance and contributions.


                                                        - 11 -

Country-wide, efficiency and performance of sector organizations and management appear to be limited.
Organizational performance at the most important level, the health centers and district hospitals, is
relatively poor, and sector organization at the district and national levels do not appear to be able to
adequately set priorities and to effectively address systemic bottlenecks on the most important determinants
of health outcomes. Public expenditures on health have decreased over the last decade (1.8% of GDP in
2001 against 3.4% in 1990) and are well below the Sub-Saharan Africa average. Few donors are
supporting the health sector in Niger and only 3.1% of all DAC aid in the years 2000-2001 was dedicated
to the health sector. Until recently, donors did not coordinate their support to the health sector very well.
Instead of donor alignment, donor segmentation by district or by specific interest (e.g. vertical programs)
seemed to be the mode of operation. This is recently changing for the better with the Belgian Cooperation
being nominated by the Government as the "chef de file" to support the Government in leading sector donor
coordination.

Limited project contribution to increase efficiency and performance of sector organizations. The project
contributed to the set up of district health teams in the 14 districts and supported the development of
multi-year district development and annual action plans, aiming at consolidating donor support in one plan
and at setting district level priorities. This is an important achievement (see section 4.2). The project also
invested heavily in the introduction of performance-based management in the MOH with a focus on the
districts since 1999. However, after six years of support, district health teams appear to be quite fragile.
The ICR team randomly analyzed annual district plans prepared over the years, and it appears that they
focus on inputs and do not set clear strategies and priorities, nor do they stress on improvement of service
quality. At the time of the ICR mission in January 2004, several visited districts did not have an annual
plan for 2004 prepared. Finally, the project contribution to increase efficiency and performance at the
MOH central level was modest. It appears that as long as the systemic health sector bottlenecks are not
adequately tackled, significant performance increase will not be possible.

Conclusion: Unsatisfactory outcome as most of the relevant objectives were not met

Relevance: From today's country and CAS perspective, and given the above described overall situation of
Niger's health system, most of the project objectives are still relevant (service quality, access, sector
organization efficiency, partnership).

Efficacy: Project objectives have only been achieved to a limited extent as (i) the utilization rate of basic
health care facilities in the project area decreased significantly; (ii) potential geographic coverage in the
seven targeted districts increased but did not transform into increased accessibility so far; (iii) real access to
generic drugs in the 14 project-supported districts appears to have decreased; (iv) service quality in the
project area has not considerably improved; (v) efficiency of private sector and population participation
increased but only to a limited extent; and (vi) while performance of district health teams has been partially
increased, the efficiency and performance at MOH central level were not adequately addressed. Hence, the
project put in place many inputs necessary for achieving the objectives, but was not able to integrate these
inputs in order to fully achieve project outcome and objectives.

Efficiency: The use of scarce project resources to accomplish the objectives and achieve the outcome of
increased utilization is questionable. Indeed, the project invested too heavily in infrastructure and
equipment, and within the infrastructure sub-components, resources were not used efficiently as (i) the
project invested too much in the over-expansion of existing health centers (on average expansion by 284%
compared to the original size of the then existing health centers; average size of rural health centers is
216% larger than those supported by an IDA project in neighboring country Chad - see Annex 16) without


                                                       - 12 -

increasing coverage and without adequately contributing to improved service quality; (ii) questionable
infrastructure priorities were set, for example concerning the Diffa region and district where 25.4% of the
overall project resources were spent: the region had a significantly lower poverty rate than some other
regions, the district's coverage rate in 1996 was already higher than the national objective for 2000, and
construction costs in this region were higher compared to other regions; and (iii) average unit construction
costs were much higher compared to other donor-financed infrastructure (214% higher compared to
Belgian Cooperation; 24% higher compared to African Development Bank). Annex 16 provides a more
detailed overview about the unsatisfactory infrastructure efficiency, and Annex 3 provides a short analysis
of the economic costs and benefits of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A schematic overview about the achievement of project outputs per component has been prepared (see
Annex 17). In addition to this overview and the points discussed in the previous section as well as the data
in Annexes 1 and 13, a few key issues will be shortly analyzed and assessed applying the project's output
indicators (see Annex 11).

(i) Outputs component 1: Improving the quality and coverage of Basic Health Services (Component is
rated unsatisfactory)

107 health infrastructures rehabilitated/expanded or newly constructed and equipped (43 CSIs
expanded/rehabilitated, 50 new CSIs constructed in seven districts, 13 district hospitals
finalized/rehabilitated/constructed, one regional hospital rehabilitated/expanded), but few of them fully
functioning, due to lack of quantity and/or quality of personnel, lack of initial drug inventory, or unsuitable
locations. As described above, potential geographic coverage has been increased but has not been
systematically transformed into real coverage from the clients' perspective yet (see also Annex 14).

Investment in these 107 health infrastructures resulted in significant increase in recurrent costs in a
country with major financial difficulties, considerably decreasing aid per capita and very low health sector
expenditures. While increasing recurrent costs, the benefits have not been achieved so far (utilization rate,
quality of care etc) - see Annex 3.

4,200 service delivery staff trained, but limited impact on increased service quality. On average, each
health care staff in the districts received about three trainings financed by the project, but the success of
this training is questionable: (i) primary focus on formal training and not sufficient work-based learning;
(ii) formal training required staff to leave their work, and many staff left their jobs after having received the
training, contributing to poor service quality; (iii) training did not fully match staff needs. According to an
evaluation prepared for the MTR, only 22% of trained health care staff rated the training as being based on
their needs. This result did not trigger further evaluation of training activities.

Low client satisfaction in project-supported districts. The significant rehabilitation, expansion and new
construction of health facilities and the major training efforts have not yet transformed into satisfactory
quality services, as perceived by the poor and by clients and as assessed by the ICR in the section above.

(ii) Outputs component 2: Improving the access of the population to essential generic drugs
(Component is rated unsatisfactory)

Most essential drugs are frequently out of stock. The project provided an inventory of initial drugs, but, as
mentioned above, out of stock drugs remain a major bottleneck to improving Niger's health system, despite



                                                       - 13 -

the introduction of the cost recovery mechanism. Accessibility to essential generic drugs seems to have
decreased in project-supported districts.

ONPPC remains weak. ONPPC has been re-organized and its monopoly has been broken, but the legal
status of ONPPC has still not been approved. The clause in the legal agreement about changing ONPPC's
legal status was not satisfied, despite consistent IDA advice and efforts. It appears that the lack of respect
for this DCA covenant has resulted in persistent inefficiencies and lack of transparency in the procurement
and distribution of essential generic drugs. The scope of action was beyond IDA given the highly politicized
topic and the involvement of other donors. A recent audit stated major management and organizational
problems.

(iii) Outputs component 3: Improving sector effectiveness and efficiency by building capacity and
forging partnerships in support of health sector reform (Component is rated marginally satisfactory)

The project contributed to the set up and strengthening of district health teams and community
management committees. This is an important achievement and a good basis for future work. However,
they remain fragile, and the impact of the contributions to strengthen central level MOH capacities appears
to be modest. As a consequence, major systemic health sector bottlenecks remain.

The project made a special effort in creating partnerships through "contracting out" services. In total, 81
contacts were established, but it appears that the reviewing and approval process for these outsourced
services were not always too clear. As described in the section above, it also appears that the project was
not able to adequately increase effective collaboration between the public health sector and private health
care services.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The PAD included an economic analysis of the PDS. The ICR did not attempt to make a retrospective
evaluation but made some general conclusions on economic costs and benefits - see Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. The project's institutional development impact is modest, as (i) performance of sector institutions,
including at the level of the 14 project-supported districts, is limited; and (ii) the enabling environment for
these sector institutions has yet to be transformed.

(i) Modest performance of sector institutions

The fundamental health sector reform of turning around the health system toward basic health care with
empowered districts and with equitable and realistic management of resources has been achieved to a
limited extent. The major reason for this is that the performance of sector institutions has been modest and
that the necessary transformation of these institutions, particularly at the central level, has not adequately
taken place. As discussed above, project design did not fully address the human and institutional
dimensions necessary to achieve the envisioned fundamental changes of the sector reform, hence during
implementation, the project did not adequately contribute to the necessary institutional transformations.



                                                     - 14 -

Organizational effectiveness of CSIs and HDs is insufficient. To a significant extent they do not satisfy the
patient's requirements for quality and quantity of services.

MOH capacity especially at the central level is constrained. While the district and regional levels have
been partially strengthened in the project-supported districts and regions, these achievements remain fragile.
In 2003, the project did not spend any resources to finance 2003 district action plans, including
supervision. At the MOH central level, the project had little impact.

(ii) Very modest transformation of the enabling environment

Poor enabling environment is defined by the institutional and organizational set up in the health sector,
administrative weaknesses, frequent political changes, and the socio-cultural aspects also related to the
public service mentality of many health care staff. While the project contributed to strengthening
accountability through increased participation in civil society and the private sector, it did not make
relevant contributions to other aspects of the enabling environment, e.g. not adequately supporting the
necessary changes to overcome the problems of health care staff.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Coups d'etat in 1996 and 1999 had major consequences on the financial assumptions of the PDS. As
mentioned above, the withdrawal of previously important donors in the health sector (The Netherlands,
USAID) significantly reduced the amount of external resources available for the implementation of the
PDS.

In Niger, donor vertical programs tend to distort integrated health service delivery. Given the high aid
dependency of the country, donors have a significant intervention power. In addition to the points made
above concerning donor sector performance, the most important issue that substantially affected
implementation and outcome are donor-driven vertical programs. Some, mainly multilateral donors, put a
special focus on treating major diseases (specifically tuberculosis, malaria, AIDS) and improving access to
vaccines. Vertical programs are appropriate solutions in specific situations, but the positive aspects of
pursuing these programs, including the provision of additional resources to district health centers, seem to
be obscured by the negative impact they have in Niger. The vertical programs appear to be a distorting
factor in health service delivery because of weak sector management and insufficient donor coordination.
CSI health personnel are occupied and almost exclusively focus on the delivery of these vertical programs
(e.g. national vaccination days) for about three months a year, interrupting the integrated delivery of health
services. This creates a vicious circle, as strong health systems are a prerequisite for delivering and
sustaining these interventions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Permanent changes within MOH

Very high turnover of Ministers of Health (Eight ministers between DCA and project closure), including
frequent major changes and reshuffling of senior officials. This led to discontinuing the pursuit of the
original PDS vision of a fundamental sector reform.




                                                     - 15 -

(ii) Limited financial resources had negative impact on achievement of project outcome and objectives

Continuous problems in providing counterpart funds. At project closure only 57% of the agreed
counterpart funds had been disbursed. And even this partial disbursement was only possible due to
financial support from the French Cooperation at some point.

Significant delays in payment of salaries to public servant health personnel (up to nine months) led to
frequent strikes and lack of motivation.

Nonpayment of external debt in 1999 led to suspension of project disbursements.

(iii) Weak capacity and slow decision making processes within MOH

MOH directorates have not adequately fulfilled their roles, as agreed at appraisal. According to the
project design and manual, procurement, financial management, and technical implementation were to be
handled by three MOH directorates (DAF, DEP, DF/GP). These directorates did not adequately fulfill their
respective roles during project implementation.

The Government did not adequately adjust PDS objectives and activities to the withdrawal of important
health sector donors after the 1996 coup d'etat.

Weak capacity for adequate priority setting was also reflected in the decision to expand the regional
project area without additional funds. This included the decision to take over the "unfinished business" of
the IDA-supported population project. While it is understandable that the Government wanted to complete
the initial investments made by the population project, this decision involved spending significant resources
on lower-priority district hospitals (e.g. district hospital Mirriah only 20 km from hospitals in Zinder),
leaving several fully equipped district hospitals unable to function.

Appointment of project coordinator took 16 months. After the departure of the first national project
coordinator ­ who later became the Bank's second TTL for this project ­ the Government needed 16
months to appoint a new project coordinator acceptable to IDA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Partially slow management processes. On some occasions, the implementation agency lacked expediency.
For example, in response to an emergency situation, TBC drugs procurement lasted more than one year
before the drugs arrived in the country. While this delay is also linked to IDA procurement rules, a
significant part of this delay occurred within the implementation agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project became effective July 29, 1997 and closed, after an 18-month extension, on December 31,
2003. The rationale for the extension, linked to a reallocation of funds, was to allow more time for the
construction of health facilities and to further improve key performance indicators, including service quality
and utilization rate. Annex 2 and Annex 16 provide a detailed overview about project financing.




                                                       - 16 -

While the disbursement rate was 99.6%, implementation and disbursement delays resulted in an
18-month extension. These implementation delays were linked to the impact of the 1996 coup d'etat, the
increasing regional scope, the increasing number of facilities financed by the project, delays in the
disbursement of counterpart funds, and probably an optimistic assessment of capacities within Niger's
construction sector.

The exchange rate between SDR and US$ consequently reduced the original US $40 million available to
finance the project to only about US $37.3 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability: Unlikely. In order to maintain the project's limited achievements, a significant amount of
further technical and financial assistance will be necessary. This can not be achieved by the Government or
IDA alone, but needs a concerted and aligned donor effort under Government leadership.

The project increased recurrent costs through its major infrastructure investments in a very resource
constrained environment. Keeping all the financed buildings including equipment maintained and make
them fully functioning will require additional resources. Given Niger's difficult economic environment,
Niger's high aid dependency, and the significant decrease of aid per capita over the last decade, these
resources might not be fully available.

Clear priority setting will be necessary in order to decide which of the fully equipped district hospitals
should be made functional first. Of the 13 project-supported district hospitals, only four were functioning
at the time of the ICR mission. As some of the hospitals are poorly located, it seems likely that a few fully
equipped hospitals might remain nonfunctional. Finding creative solutions for these nonfunctional hospitals
might increase sustainability, perhaps using them as training facilities.

In order to ensure sustainability, the systemic issues mentioned above need to be systematically
addressed, and health personnel is the most important one. IDA's upcoming health operation will focus on
institutional sustainability. Achieving sustainability in Niger's health sector will also require that the
Government and donors are committed to providing the necessary resources over the long term and that the
utilization of these resources is driven by clear and mutually agreed priorities in line with the country's
PRSP.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Given the sustainability challenges, transition arrangements to regular operations are urgent. The
Government aims at opening the 10 closed CSIs in the Diffa Region soon and has financed a drug
inventory for all 50 new CSIs through counterpart funds in March 2004. Further transition arrangements
would need to consider in particular realistic priorities and a coherent approach of addressing systemic
bottlenecks.

Utilization rate, explicit service quality criteria, and performance criteria of sector delivery institutions
are the three most important performance indicators by which future achievements should be monitored and
evaluated.

The donor community as a whole needs to join efforts in supporting and strengthening the Government in



                                                      - 17 -

addressing the systemic bottlenecks. Hence, the Bank's upcoming operation should help the Government set
explicit priorities and make work what exists within an evolving SWAp framework that would prepare the
sector to be later possibly integrated in a PRSC.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. Despite the unsatisfactory quality at entry, the manner in which IDA acted in this phase needs
to be given credit. Two positive factors are important to highlight: (i) systematic advocacy for a SIP vision
in line with the CDF principles of ownership and partnership; and (ii) participatory and field-based
approach.

Preparation work was driven by a SIP vision, reflecting the right approach in terms of strengthening
country ownership and working in partnership with other donors. This partnership approach was less
pursued during implementation (see section 7.2).

Participatory and field-based approach. The preparation team was a role-model in the participatory
approach, bringing together the relevant stakeholders at the regional and district level to design the IDA
contribution.

7.2 Supervision:

Unsatisfactory. IDA supervision performance is rated unsatisfactory. This is due to insufficient (i)
emphasis on ensuring that results are achieved; (ii) emphasis on donor coordination and alignment; and (iii)
adequacy of supervision processes. It also appears that not enough emphasis was placed on regularly
re-considering priorities and adequately adapting the project according to performance in a changing
environment, which might have allowed a change in the direction of the project, as required by the SIP
approach.

(i) Ensuring that results are achieved

Limited focus on achieving results, mirroring the limited results focus of the project design. The set of
performance indicators was not fully adequate (see section 3.5 and Annexes 10 and 11). Therefore,
managing for results and motivating the involved institutions and stakeholders in achieving results appeared
to be difficult.

Significant regional expansion was made without adequately considering intended outcomes. (i) IDA's
agreement to expand the regional project area in three steps without increasing project funds implied that
the funds were spread too thinly, trying to achieve the project objectives in 14 instead of five districts. (ii)
Yet it was not exactly clear what the project wanted to achieve in the additional nine districts as no mutual
agreements were made concerning objectives and adequate performance targets. (iii) In addition, the
problems of the population project were taken over without assessing the full impact of this decision on the
new operation. As mentioned above, the population project made poor decisions concerning the location of
some hospitals, and the decision to finalize and equip all remaining hospitals implied that a significant
amount of project resources (US $2.46 million for construction and equipment alone) was spent on several
lower-priority hospitals, most of them not functioning at the time of the ICR mission. The decision to
finance these district hospitals increased the project's focus on hardware at the expense of software, when
an increased focus on the health care personnel and institutional issues would have been necessary for


                                                     - 18 -

achieving better results. (iv) Finally, the decision to significantly expand the regional project area did not
adequately consider the recommendation from the PAD economic analysis of the PDS, namely to scale
back activities to adjust, if necessary, to Niger's financing capacity.

While the negative impact of cost recovery, as practiced, was defined as a risk, corrective actions were
not successful. The possible negative impact of cost recovery on service utilization was rightly identified as
a risk in the PAD. IDA raised this issue on many occasions with MOH but there appeared to be reluctance
on the Government's part to modify the cost recovery approach. The Government did not conduct the
suggested study on low utilization rates, nor did the Bank prepare an ESW that would have supported the
Government in taking appropriate decisions concerning cost recovery.

MTR as a lost opportunity to strengthen focus on outcomes. The MTR developed a good assessment of
shortcomings, but despite this assessment and the knowledge of declining health outcomes (e.g.
malnutrition), the decreasing utilization rate and the reduction in aid, no fundamental adjustments were
made at the MTR. But it needs to be considered that many decisions that had a significant impact on
project results, e.g. expanding the project area, were already taken before the MTR.

(ii) Donor coordination and alignment

In the preparation phase and early implementation phase the focus was put on building a strong
partnership with other donors. After the MTR, it appears that the main form of interaction with other
donors became debriefing sessions at the end of the missions. It appears that this did not significantly
change after a new TTL was placed in the field. According to the main health sector donors in Niger, no
real dialogue was maintained, despite the increasingly deteriorating situation in the health sector that would
have called for donor-aligned support.

(iii) Impact of supervision processes

Adequacy of Bank supervision resources: (i) Sufficient supervision resources were available (US $1.014
million, see Annex 4) and IDA made significant efforts to ensure proactivity during supervision. However,
the impact of these efforts, e.g. concerning the problems with health care personnel, cost recovery, or
ONPPC restructuring appears to be limited. (ii) While decentralization of procurement and financial
management functions had very positive effects, the appointment of the previous member of the
Government preparation team and coordinator of the PIU as field-based TTL created a difficult role. In
addition, no supervision mission from HQ took place between October 2002 and December 2003 (with the
exception of a mission of an architect focusing exclusively on construction) when mentoring and on the job
learning support for the new national TTL would have been necessary. The final supervision mission in
November 2003 was designed as reversed supervision.

Impact of country management decisions. It appears that IDA's overall support to Niger's health sector,
aiming at creating synergies between the interventions of the project and other sector relevant activities,
was not fully coherent: (i) a planned follow-up health sector project was dropped in 2001. This decision
might have undermined IDA's credibility and hindered health sector dialogue with the Government; (ii)
while it appears that during the last phase of project implementation a limited amount of human and
financial resources were invested in project supervision, significant resources and time were dedicated to
the preparation of IDA's HIV/AIDS project; (iii) the country health status report process, initiated by a
separate team, was not fully coordinated with project task team activities as missions took place at times
when the then HQ-based health project TTL was not in the field; (iv) finally, IDA's community
development project also financed construction of basic health care infrastructure, contributing to the


                                                       - 19 -

proliferation of new health facilities but also to difficulties in making these facilities functional.

PSRs not adequately used as a management tool for improved results. Aide Memoires were generally
written in a comprehensive and detailed manner, but it appears that the PSRs were not written and applied
as a management tool: (i) PSRs tended to be written from an input and activities perspective, not focusing
enough on the achievement of project objectives and outcome. For example, the PSR at project closure
focused on the infrastructure built but did not mention that several of these infrastructures were either
closed or not functioning; (ii) it appears that some major project decisions were not adequately and timely
reflected in the PSRs: The first regional expansion decision, agreed to in the Aide Memoire of 10/96, was
mentioned in PSR 2 in 7/97; the second expansion decision, to take over the unfinished business from the
previous IDA population project, was agreed to in principle in the Aide Memoire of 9/97 and mentioned for
the first time March 2000 in PSR 9; (iii) concerning objective clarity mentioned above (see section 3.5), all
PSRs, with the exception of the final PSR 17, took the PDS objective - as stated in the PAD as program
objective - as the project objective, hence not making explicit that the project's objective was to make a
contribution to the PDS program objective; (iv) yet, it appears that the ratings for achieving the project
objective were overly optimistic, at least since the MTR, when the low and decreasing utilization rate was
known; and (v) only six out of the 17 PSRs were formally reviewed and signed by sector or country
management.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Unsatisfactory. Taking into account the ratings of lending and supervision performance, the overall IDA
performance rating is unsatisfactory. The most decisive argument for this assessment is the limited results
focus in project preparation and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. Following the same line of argument as for the rating of IDA lending performance, Borrower
preparation performance is rated satisfactory. Despite the design flaws of the PDS, the positive manner in
which the PDS was developed deserves credit for at least two reasons: (i) the vision on decentralization and
primary health care; and (ii) country ownership including a participatory approach.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Unsatisfactory. Despite encouraging recent performance (ongoing work to develop new PDS 2005-2008,
nomination of the Belgian Cooperation as "chef de file" to increase donor collaboration) overall
Government project implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. In addition to the factors affecting
project implementation and outcome (see section 5.2), the following points led to the unsatisfactory rating:
(i) continuity in political sector leadership missing, including leadership for donor sector coordination; (ii)
limited focus on achieving results; and (iii) failure to address systemic sector bottlenecks.

Political instability and permanent changes of high level MOH staff did not allow a coherent political
sector leadership, including leadership for donor coordination.

Limited focus on achieving results: (i) it appears that the Government focused too narrowly on the
objective of increasing geographic coverage and hence on building new health infrastructures. This pattern
can also be observed in the way HIPC resources have been used in the health sector, namely with a focus
on the construction of 2000 "Case de Santé"; (ii) despite decreasing external and internal financial



                                                       - 20 -

resources no adjustments were made concerning the basic norms established in 1995, e.g. no re-assessment
of the relevance of significantly expanding the size of health care centers was carried out; (iii) despite
decreasing utilization rates and indications of the negative effects of cost recovery the Government did not
undertake the study on low utilization rates, as suggested by IDA.

The Government has not been able to coherently address the systemic sector bottlenecks outlined above,
particularly concerning health care staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory, but only marginally. The implementation agency demonstrated (i) mixed management
effectiveness; and (ii) limited results focus.

Management effectiveness is mixed as the implementation agency was responsible for some implementation
delays and several country stakeholders indicated that the agency was not fully able to establish fruitful
working relationships with other national institutions.

In line with the limited results focus of the Government and IDA, the implementation agency's focus was
on providing input and activities without adequately considering outcomes.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory. Following the same logic as for IDA's overall performance rating and considering the
predominant importance of the limited results focus in PDS preparation and implementation, overall
borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

(i) Health sector reform and the supporting donor interventions need to be driven by results, a clear set
of objectives, and performance benchmarks for service delivery institutions. A focus on inputs, activities
and outputs does not provide sufficient guidance and incentives for achieving fundamental changes
necessary for improved outcomes.

(ii) The focus of health sector reform needs to be on removing systemic bottlenecks. Such a focus
requires flexibility and the adoption of action-learning principles during implementation.

(iii) Increasing geographic coverage does not translate into increased utilization if the systemic
bottlenecks are not addressed. Expanding coverage needs to be carefully prioritized and driven by demand
as well as long-term resource availability. In a resource constraint environment, donors need to be very
cautious in increasing recurrent costs through financing the expansion of existing health care facilities and
the construction of new infrastructures.

(iv) Improving service quality is the key, and qualified and committed health care staff is the most
important contributor to this. In order to create a spirit of professionalism and motivation among health
care staff, developing an appropriate incentive system to attract, maintain, and further qualify staff is
crucially important. The provision of learning support to health care staff needs to be driven by their actual
needs and should take place, as much as possible, through "work-based" learning on the job.

(v) Cost recovery in its current form appears to be problematic as it might dis-empower and exclude
the poor. While the principle of contributions is very important, it should not constitute a financial barrier


                                                     - 21 -

to accessibility. Adequate mechanisms need to be put in place that ensure financial access of the poor. In
particular, cost recovery for contraceptives in one of the poorest countries worldwide and the country with
the highest fertility rate does not appear to be an appropriate solution.

(vi) Donors need to significantly co-finance recurrent costs of Niger's health system so that the country
has at least a chance to come close to reaching the MDGs. This requires a long-term donor commitment. In
order to allow reasonable external support, the health system needs to be set up and function in a
cost-effective manner.

(vii) A SWAp approach as part of the country's PRSP under Government leadership and with
donor-aligned support can turn the above mentioned lessons into reality. The Bank with the planned
new health sector operation plays a crucial role in this context. In pursuing an approach based on SWAp
principles, the Bank (i) would foster donor alignment around the country's health sector priorities with
common objectives and indicators linked to a medium-term expenditure framework; and (ii) would
strengthen MOH capacity in becoming a full actor in the PRSC process. Bank support would need to be
delivered in an integrated manner, fully aligning it with other country operations, and would need to have a
long-term perspective.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See annex 18

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

The ICR team (Markus Repnik, Dr. Remo Meloni) undertook an expanded seven-day field visit, traveling
to all regions where the project supported health districts. During this field trip more than 20 health centers
and district hospitals were visited and many discussions with health care staff and district and regional
directors were held. Given the weak data situation in the country, these visits turned out to be extremely
important to facilitate an adequate assessment of the project's performance. Annex 14 provides an
overview about the degree of functioning of the visited health care infrastructures.

The mission also participated in a workshop organized by the Government where Government and
national stakeholders discussed their assessment of the project, including discussions of the results of the
2003 Beneficiary Survey and the 2003 Epidemiological Survey.

In addition, many individual meetings with national stakeholders and donor representatives were held.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


PAD Outcome Indicators1:

         PAD Indicator         PAD End of Project      Latest Information                               Comments
                                      Target
Coverage rate                  Goure 31.4%            Goure 17,5%                 Design: Coverage rate not defined in PAD
(For component 1)              Tanout 46.2%           Tanout 42.0%                Results:
                               Mirriah 30.1%          Mirriah 28.2%               § Latest information: 2002 data, source: national
§ 1996 baseline original       Diffa 46.2%            Diffa 51.4%                     evaluation document;
    project area:              Maine-S. 43.8%         Maine S. 37.1%              § No data available for coverage increase due to
    Goure 16.0%                                       Say 21.3%                       project financed 50 new CSIs
    Tanout 24.4%                                      Filingue 38.8%              § Unclear definition of coverage data 2002/03. It
    Mirriah 23.8%                                                                     appears that at least in some districts coverage
    Diffa 44.7%                                       These coverage data do          rate including "Case de Sante" built via
    Maine-S. 25.0%                                    NOT include the increase        President's special program
                                                      in coverage due to the 50
                                                      project financed CSIs       § Source 1996 data for 5 original districts: PAD;
§ 1996 baseline extended                                                              baseline data slightly different between PAD and
    project area:                                                                     data presented in national evaluation document
    Filingue 32.0%                                                                § No data reported in project-end PSR 17
    Say 19.3%
Utilization rate               No target set in PAD   Goure 14,5%                 Design:
(For components 1 and 2)                              Tanout 30.0%               § Utilization rate not defined in PAD
                                                      Mirriah 13.2%              § No baseline and target set in PAD
§ 1996 Baseline project area:                         Diffa 51.4%                 Tracking:
    Goure 32.6%                                       Maine S. 25.2%             § Baseline and target defined at MTR 2000
    Tanout 48.0%                                                                  § National target: 50%, but not specified when this
    Mirriah 34.1%                                     Filingue 21.3%                  target should be achieved
    Diffa 118.0%                                      Say 11.0%                   Results:
    Maine-S. 60.5%                                    N'guigmi 61.0%              § Utilization rate in PSR 17 defined as "new
                                                      Ouallam 14.0%                   consultations/inhabitant/year for district health
§ Baseline 1996 extended                              Konni 38.6%                     centers"
    project area :                                    Madaoua 18.3% (03)          § Latest information: 2002 data where available, as
    Filingue 39.1%                                    Bouza 22.0% (03)                2003 data only preliminary; source: national
    Say 32.0%                                         Magaria 14.7% (03)              evaluation document
    N'guigmi 47.7%                                    Matameye 23.0%              § Source average national and district data: PSR
    Ouallam 32.0%                                     (03)                            17
    Konni 38.8%                                                                   § Unreliable data for Diffa, questionable data for
    Madaoua 33.0%                                     Districts with shortfall on     N'guigmi
    Bouza 30.1%                                       utilization in bold         § Preliminary 2003 data indicate further significant
    Magaria 37.0%                                                                     decline of utilization rate in several districts
    Matameye 68.0%                                    Average project             § No data by district reported in PSR 17
                                                      districts: 26%

Average project area 1996: 42%                        National average:

National average 1996: 18%                            24%

Client satisfaction            No target set in PAD   35% satisfied with          Design:
(For component 1)                                     quality of care            § Client satisfaction not defined in PAD
                                                                                  § No baseline and target set in PAD
                                                      52.2% not satisfied         Results:
                                                      with quality of care        § Source: Beneficiary survey 2003
                                                                                  § No data reported in PSR 17




1See Annex 11: Assessment of Project Outcome and Output Indicators




                                                                      - 23 -

Annual recurrent expenditures                                                    Design:
of district health facilities                                                    § IndicatenotfurtherdefinedinPAD
commensurate with real annual                                                    § NobaselinesetinPAD
costs                                                                            Results:
(For component 3)                                                                § NodatareportedinPSR17
Actual financial contributions                                                   Design: No baseline set in PAD
of key financiers commensurate                                                   Results:
with health financing plan                                                      § Nodatatracked
projections (cost recovery, local                                               § NodatareportedinPSR17
collectibles, central budget)
(For component 3)
Number of annual action plans     No target set in PAD      National level: 0    Design: No baseline and target set in PAD
prepared                                                    Regional level: 1    Results:
(For component 3)                                           District level: 1    § 2003data;source:PSR17
                                                                                 § Uncleardefinitionofresultatdistrictlevel.Does
                                                                                     result "1"mean 1 action plan per district?
                                                                                 § Nofinancingof2003districtactionplans
                                                                                     available
Number of functioning             No target set in PAD      167 health           Design: Indicator not fully defined in PAD
community management                                        committees           ("functioning"?)
committees                                                  established (=100%   Results:
(For component 3)                                           of CSI)              § PSR17states167functioninghealthcommittees
                                                                                 § Beneficiarysurvey2003statesthatmostCSI
                                                            37% functional           health committees are not or only partially
                                                            19% more or less         functional
                                                            functional
                                                            44% not functional

PAD Output indicators1:

         PAD Indicator            PAD End of Project        Latest Information                        Comments
                                          Target
Number of facilities              Total 35 or 37            Total 13 HDs, 1      Design:
rehabilitated and equipped        facilities in 5 districts Regional Hospital    § UncleartargetinPAD: 35or37facilities
(For component 1)                 (HD, CSI1, CSI2):         and 43 CSIs:        § CSI1andCSI2notdefinedinPAD
                                                                                 Tracking: Target changed during implementation to
                                  Goure 1, 4 , 4            Goure 1, 8           44 CSIs
                                  Tanout 1, 1, 2            Tanout 1, 5          Results:
                                  Mirriah 0, 8 ,0           Mirriah 1, 7        § Physicaltargetexceeded,but9outof13HDnot
                                  Diffa 1, 6, 1             Diffa 1, 6               functioning and many of the CSIs only partially
                                  Maine-S 1, 5, 2           Maine-S. 1, 6            functioning
                                                            Filingue 1, 4       § Rehabilitationincludedmajorexpansionof
                                                            Say 1, 3                 health care facilities
                                                            N'guigmi 1, 2       § Sourcelatestinformation:nationalevaluation
                                                            Ouallam 1, 0             document
                                                            Konni 1, 2          § PerformanceindicatorsinPSR17donotreport
                                                            Matameye 1, 0            on HD rehabilitation
                                                            Magaria 1, 0
                                                            Bouza 1, 0
                                                            Madaoua 1, 0




1See Annex 11: Assessment of Project Outcome and Output Indicators




                                                                          - 24 -

Number of facilities constructed  Total 43 in 5         Total 50 CSIs (CSI1,    Design: CSI1 and CSI2 not defined in PAD
and equipped                      districts:            CSI2, CSI reduit) in 7  Tracking: Target changed during implementation to
(For component 1)                 (CSI1, CSI2):         districts:              52
                                                                                Results: Physical target exceeded, but some of the
                                  Goure 3, 3            Goure 5                 new CSIs closed (all 10 CSIs in Diffa Region), most
                                  Tanout 10, 3          Tanout 12               of the new CSIs only partially functioning
                                  Mirriah 12, 2         Mirriah 10
                                  Diffa 3, 0            Diffa 3
                                  Maine-S 7, 0          Maine-S. 7
                                                        Filingue 5
                                                        Say 8
Number of CSI and ECD             Total = 3033/3036:    Number service          Design: In PAD: 3033 or 3036: minimal difference
service delivery staff trained by                       delivery staff trained: concerning target
district                          Goure 574                                     Results:
(For component 1)                 Tanout 723            4,200                   § Quantitative target exceeded, but quality and
                                  Miriah 863            14 (ECD)                    delivery form of training questionable. In survey
                                  Diffa 352                                         prepared for MTR only 22% of trained staff
                                  Maine-S. 524                                      rated training as based on their needs. Project
                                                                                    did not further track quality of offered training
                                  Further breakdown                             § Breakdown by district & type of training not
                                  by treatment protocol                             available
                                  (12 categories)
Number of HD Zinder and           HD Zinder (total 18): 13 specialists trained: Results:
CHD Diffa and Zinder staff        anesthesiologist (6)  surgery (3)             § Source: national evaluation document
trained                           surgical aide (6)     gynecology (7)          § Non of the trained staff is working in the
(For component 1)                 public health (3)     pediatric (1)               respective district hospitals
                                  radiology aide (3)    biomedical engineer     § No data reported in PSR 17
                                                        (2)
                                  CHD Diffa and
                                  Zinder trained (total
                                  10):
                                  gynecology (4),
                                  surgery (4),
                                  public health (2)
Availability in health facilities No target set in PAD  100% of health          Design:
of drugs included in                                    facilities use generic  § No baseline and targets defined in PAD
Government's official essential                         drug plan               § Not clear if indicator is for national level or for
drug list                                                                           health facilities in project area
(For component 2)                                                               Results: PSR 17 indicator (health facilities using
                                                                                generic drug plan) is not the same as availability of
                                                                                drugs in health facilities
Frequency of orders for stock     No target set in PAD                          Design:
replenishment                                                                   § No baseline and target defined in PAD
(For component 2)                                                               § Not clear if indicator is for national level or for
                                                                                    health facilities in project area
                                                                                Results: No data reported in PSR 17




                                                                      - 25 -

Number and duration of            No target set in PAD   Average number of      Design:
ruptures in essential drugs                              days the 20 most     § No baseline and target set in PAD
stock                                                    essential drugs in   § Not clear if indicator is national or for health
(For component 2)                                        project-supported          facilities in project area
                                                         districts are out of   Results:
                                                         stock: 54            § No data reported in PSR 17
Number of district health teams   between 5 and 55       14 district health     Design: Target not fully clear and defined
trained and functioning           teams on 10 topics     teams trained          ("functioning")
(For component 3)                 trained, in total 440
Number of Committee de Sante      total 1157 teams:      Committee de Sante     Results: No data reported in PSR 17
members trained                   between 220 and 363    members did not
(For component 3)                 teams on 4 subjects,   receive planned or
                                  between 146 and 336    adequate training
                                  teams by district
Number of planning and                                   Number of planning     Design: No baseline, no target defined in PAD
programming meetings                                     meetings held at       Results: No differentiation of meetings per level in
(annual reviews / national                               various levels:        PSR 17
semi-annual reviews / DDS
quarterly reviews / districts)                           208 meetings at all
(For component 3)                                        levels
Number of small-scale service     No target set in PAD   81                     Results:
contracts awarded by districts to                                             § Source: PSR 17; national evaluation document
various local partners                                                              states 88 small-scale contracts
(For component 3)                                                             § No breakdown per district available
                                                                              § No evaluation of performance and outcomes of
                                                                                    these contracts available




                                                                        - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                Estimate           Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million       US$ million
1. Improving the Quality and Coverage of Basis Health              31.50               25.98            82.48
Services
2. Improving the Access of the Population to Essential              3.70                5.30           143.24
Generic Drugs
3. Building Capacity and Forging Partnerships in Support            4.80                5.88            122.5
of Health Sector Reform

Total Baseline Cost                                                40.00               37.16
                          Total Project Costs                      40.00               37.16
                   Total Financing Required                        40.00               37.16
No reliable data concerning IDA spending per component was received before finalizing the ICR. The
data in the table above is an estimate, calculated on the basis of the overall project costs per component
that includes Government financial contributions.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                   2           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                             3.20             11.60            0.00              63.30         78.10
                                    (3.20)           (11.60)           (0.00)           (0.00)        (14.80)
2. Goods                            13.10              1.00            0.35              38.10         52.55
                                   (13.10)            (1.00)           (0.30)           (0.00)        (14.40)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00            4.80              14.70         19.50
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.80)           (0.00)         (4.80)
4. Training                          0.00              0.00            2.80              8.60          11.40
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.80)           (0.00)         (2.80)
5. Incremantal Recurrent             0.00              0.00            4.20             109.90         114.10
Costs                               (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.20)           (0.00)         (3.20)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                            16.30             12.60            12.15            234.60         275.65
                                   (16.30)           (12.60)          (11.10)           (0.00)        (40.00)




                                                   - 27 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                5.35              11.10              0.29             0.00             16.74
                                          (4.27)             (9.12)            (0.27)            (0.00)           (13.66)
   2. Goods                                11.72              0.37              1.33             0.00             13.42
                                          (11.53)            (0.31)            (1.24)            (0.00)           (13.08)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.56             0.00              4.56
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.56)            (0.00)           (4.56)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              3.84             0.00              3.84
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.81)            (0.00)           (3.81)
   5. Incremantal Recurrent                0.00               0.00              2.43             0.00              2.43
   Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.05)            (0.00)           (2.05)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               17.07             11.47             12.45             0.00             40.99
                                          (15.80)            (9.43)           (11.93)            (0.00)           (37.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Improving                     31.50        99.20        95.00       25.98                               82.5      0.0       0.0
Quality and Coverage of
Basic Health Services
Improving Supply and           3.70         3.20                     5.30                               143.2     0.0
Distribution of Essential
Generic Drugs
Building Capacity and          4.80        14.00         8.00        5.88                               122.5     0.0       0.0
Forging Partnerships in
Support of Health Sector
Reform

  No reliable data concerning IDA spending per component was received before finalizing the ICR. The
  data in the table above is an estimate, calculated on the basis of the overall project costs per component
  that includes Government financial contributions.




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The PAD included an economic analysis of the PDS, but did not provide an economic analysis of the
proposed project. The ICR did not attempt to make a retrospective evaluation, but concluded, on a general
note, the following:

Allocative efficiency, defined as Government capacity to distribute resources on the basis of the
effectiveness of public programs in meeting its strategic objectives, requires clear and prioritized objectives.
As discussed in Section 3.5, neither the PDS nor the PAD had such an explicit set of prioritized objectives,
and no explicit criteria were set in the PAD to define project objectives. Based on the criteria applied to
assess project outcome and achievement of objectives (see section 4.1) the use of scarce project resources is
rated unsatisfactory as the project ended up investing too much in infrastructure and equipment and in the
over-expansion of existing health centers instead of assisting the Government in coherently addressing the
systemic health sector bottlenecks (see Annexes 12 and 16). In addition, according to public expenditure
review data, there is still a heavy concentration at the central level concerning the management of public
health sector financial resources. Between 2000 and 2002 there has been a slight increase from 73.8% to
75.7% of the centrally managed part of the recurrent budget. This includes to a significant degree financial
resources spent at the local level, e.g. salaries. Hence decentralization of health sector financial resources,
with its possible positive impacts of increased allocative efficiency, has not been fully realized yet.

Equity. As mentioned in section 4.1 a significant amount of project resources (25.4% of the overall
resources) were spent in the Diffa region and the Diffa district. Yet, at the time of appraisal, the region had
a significantly lower poverty rate than some other regions, and the district's coverage rate in 1996 was
already higher than the national objective for 2000. In addition, construction costs in this region were
higher compared to other regions. The project's spending per capita in the Diffa region is 5.1 times higher
compared to the average spending in all 14 districts. The heavy allocation of project resources to the Diffa
region can be considered as inequitable in the way resources were allocated. According to 2003 draft public
expenditure review data, health expenditures per capita in the Diffa region are about 3 times higher
compared to the Maradi region that, in addition, had a higher poverty rate at the time of appraisal.

Project impact on recurrent costs and on future financing needs. The project invested significantly in the
(i) extension and equipment of existing health centers; (ii) construction and equipment of new health
centers; and (iii) in the construction, rehabilitation, and equipment of district hospitals (see section 5.4).
These investments have generated additional recurrent costs in terms of human resources, maintainance,
and amortization. These incremental costs, however, have to be weighted against the benefits, but as
demonstrated in section 4.1, most of the benefits have yet to be achieved, given the fact that the
construction of the 50 new health centers has just been recently completed. Given the precarious
macroeconomic situation of Niger, it is expected that donors will have to remain involved for a long time if
health outcomes are to improve significantly.

Recommendation of PAD economic analysis not fully considered. The economic analysis of PDS
concluded that the PDS goals appear to be very ambitious given a number of constraints, and it
recommended to closely monitor costs and financing of the PDS and to periodically review objectives and
activities in light of real constraints with a view to scaling back and/or to increasing the timeframe for their
implementation to be more in line with Niger's absorptive and financing capacity. Given the withdrawal of
two major donors, The Netherlands and USAID, significantly less external resources were available for
financing PDS implementation.




                                                       - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/16/1995                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (2);
                                             CONSULTANT/MANAGEMEN
                                             T (2); CONSULTANT/COST
                                             RECOVERY (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/PHARMACIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT/PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/20/1995              10     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST
                                             (1); PROGRAM OFFICER
                                             (1); HEALT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROGRAM OFFICER
                                             (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/MANAGE
                                             MENT (2); CONSULTANT
                                             PHARMACIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              05/05/1996              11     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/MANAGEMEN
                                             T (4); CONSULTANT/
                                             ACCOUNTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/PHARMACIST
                                             (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                                             (1); CONSUTLANT/PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              10/08/1996                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/PHARMAC
                                             EUTICAL SPECIAL (1);



                                              - 30 -

                 CONSULTANT/PUBLIC
                 HEALTH (1)
03/07/1997    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                 PUBLIC SECTOR
                 MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); OPERATION ANALIST (1);
                 TASK ASSISTANT (1);
                 CONSULTANT (ARCHITECT)
                 (1); CONSULTANT (PUBLIC
                 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT/CDD
                 SPECIALIST (1)
10/15/1997    11 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); ARCHITECT (1); PUBLIC
                 HEALTH SPECIALI (1); TASK
                 TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 PROGRAM OFFICER (1); NGO
                 LIAISON OFFICER (1),
                 CONSULTANT (4)
02/21/1998    6  MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                 LANGUAGE TEAM
                 ASSISTANT (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1);
                 CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                 (1); PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
11/25/1998    4  PROGRAM OFFICER (1);          S    S
                 PARTNERSHIP SPEC. (1);
                 ARCHITECT (1);
                 PHARMACEUTICAL SPECIAL
                 (1)
02/26/1999    7  MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                 PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                 TASK TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 NGO LIAISON OFFIER (1);
                 CONS./PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                 CONS./ARCHITECT (1)
02/07/2000    9  PHN SPECIALIST (1);           S    S
                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 PROGRAM COORDINATOR
                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT
                 ASSISTANT (1); LIAISON
                 OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT/PPHARMACE
                 UTICAL SPECIAL (1);
                 CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                 (1)
05/15/2000    8  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S



                 - 31 -

                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                 PROGRAM SPECIALIST (1);
                 FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                 COMMUNITY PARTIC. (1);
                 RESIDENT REPRESENTATIV
                 (1); HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1)
12/09/2000    8  TEAM LEADER (1);               S    S
                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                 OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); NGO LIAISON OFFICER
                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)
09/24/2001    9  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                 SEN.HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                 (1); SEN.PROCUREMENT
                 SPEC. (1); HEALTH
                 ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                 ANALYST (1);
                 CONSULTANT/HIV/AIDS (1);
                 CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                 (1); SENIOR SOCIOLOGIST (1)
01/29/2002    7  ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT           S    S
                 (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                 (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                 (2); SENIOR HEALTH SPEC.
                 (2)
06/27/2002    6  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                 CO-TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); PROCUREMENT
                 ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                 ASSISTANT (1);
                 PROGRAM/PROC. ASSIST. (1)
10/28/2002    11 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                 PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                 (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                 (1); CONSULTANT
                 (MANAGEMENT) (1);
                 PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                 (1);
                 CONSULTANT/MANAGEMEN
                 T (2)



                 - 32 -

               20/01/2003                     2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S               S
                                                    CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT(1
                                                    )
               11/27/2003                     4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S               S
               (reversed                            LEAD SPECIALIST (1);
               supervison)                          PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                                    (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
               01/23/2004                     2      ICR TASK TEAM                        U                U
                                                     LEADER (1);
                                                     CONSULTANT/PUBLIC
                                                     HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        48.25                             652
  Supervision                                 157.99                             956
  ICR                                          10.00                              37
  Total                                       216.24                           1,645
Remarks:
1) No information available on staff weeks for Identification/Preparation.
2) Costs for appraisal/negotiation include identification/preparation as no information available on the split
between identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation.
3) Additional Trust Fund resources for Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiation in the amount of
US $215,309.15
4) Additional Trust Fund resources for Supervision in the amount of US $58,359.28




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Institution                    Title                                                            Year
Academy for Educational        Care seeking for young children with recent illness, Preliminary 2004
Development                    Analysis
Bossyns, Miyé, Van Lerberghe Supply-level measures to increase uptake of family planning        2003
                               services in Niger: the cost-effectiveness of improving
                               responsiveness.
Canadian International         Diagnostic study of the PRSP Monitoring and Evaluation Systems 2002
Development Agency             in Burkina Faso, Benin, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali and Niger
DRSP Diffa                     Evaluation 2002 et Programmation 2003                            2003
DRSP Diffa                     Situation Sanitaire de la Région de Diffa                        2003
DRSP Tahoua                    DS de Konni. Fonctionnalité de l'HD et Liste du personnel de la  2004
                               Santé
DRSP Tillabery                 Several annual action plans and evaluations of DRSP and          2002
                               Tillaberi, Ouallam, and Fillingue Districts
DRSP Tillabéri                 Situation Sanitaire de la Région Tillaberi                       2004
DRSP Zinder                    PDSD de District Matameye 1998-2002                              2002
DRSP Zinder                    Réalisations santé II dans la région de Zinder 1996-2002         2004
DRSP Zinder                    Réalisations santé II dans le district de Tanout 1996-2002       2004
Economist Intelligence Unit    Niger Country Report                                             2003
GTZ Projet Alafia              Evolution du Personnel de Ouallam                                2003
GTZ Projet Alafia              A normative benchmark for referrals in rural Niger               2003
GTZ Projet Alafia              Unaffordable luxury or cost-effective investment ? Relevance and 2003
                              viability of introducing an emergency evacuation system in rural
                              Niger
IDA / Government of Niger      Development Credit Agreement Health Sector Development           1996
                               Program
International Monetary Fund    Niger Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility ­ Policy           1998
                              Framework Paper 1998-2001
Ministere de la Sante Publique Projet de Plan de Développement Sanitaire 1994-2000              1994
Ministere de la Sante Publique Evaluation Bénéficiaires                                         1997
Ministere de la Sante Publique Bilan mi-parcours du PDS 1994-2000                               1998
Ministere de la Sante Publique Synthèse des plans de développement des districts                1998
Ministere de la Sante Publique Cadre Nationale de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté : Cadre Analytique   2000
                              et stratégique Pauvreté-Santé
Ministere de la Sante Publique Evaluation Bénéficiaires mi-parcours                             2000
Ministere de la Sante Publique Projet de Declaration de Politique Sectorielle Santé             2001
Ministere de la Sante Publique Recrutement. Analyse disponible versus Normes                    2001
Ministere de la Sante Publique Declaration de Politique Sanitaire                               2002
Ministere de la Sante Publique Orientations Strategiques pour le Développement Sanitaire de la  2002
                               Première Décennie du 21ème Siècle
Ministere de la Sante Publique Situation du personnel contractuel                               2003
Ministere de la Sante Publique Situation des effectifs du MSP/LCE 2001 à 2003                   2003
Ministere de la Sante Publique Evaluation Bénéficiaires Finale                                  2003
Oxford University Press        The impact of alternative cost recovery schemes on access and    1995
                               equity in Niger
Republique du Niger            Projet de Plan de Developpement Sanitaire 1994-2000              1994
Republique du Niger            Declaration de Politique Sectorielle de Sante                    1995
Republique du Niger            Normes et Standards du Systeme de Sante                          1995
Republique du Niger            Revue des dépenses publiques 90-97. Rapport final                1998
Republique du Niger            Revue des dépenses publiques 1998. Rapport final                 2000
Republique du Niger            Evaluation de la Formation et du Renforcement des Capacites      2000
                               dans le Directions




                                                            - 36 -

Republique du Niger        Revue des dépenses publiques du secteur santé (draft)           2003
Republique du Niger        Rapport d'Audit sur la Gestion des Stocks des Produits de Sante 2003
                           mis a la Disposition de l'ONPPC
Republique du Niger        Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire 2003-2007 (draft)      2003
Republique du Niger        Rapport d'Evaluation Finale des Indicateurs Sanitaires          2003
Republique du Niger        Rapport de l'Atelier d'Evaluation Finale du Programme de        2004
                           Developpement du Secteur de la Sante Project Sante II
Republique du Niger        Atelier national ­ Resultats du Travail de la Commission 1      2004
Republique du Niger        Atelier national ­ Resultats du Travail de la Commission 2      2004
Republique du Niger        Projet Sante II Credit IDA 2915 NIR Rapport d'Achevement        2004
Republique du Niger.       Projet Santé II - Evaluation Interne                            2004
SPA Sector Support Working Alignment of Sector Programs with PRSPs ­ Checklist (draft)     2003
Group
UNDP                       Human Development Report 2003                                   2003
Unite de Coordination du   Several planning and reporting documents, incl. Annual Plans    1997-
Project Sante II                                                                           2003
WHO                        Report 2003                                                     2003
World Bank                 Niger Country Assistance Strategy                               1994
World Bank                 ICR Sante I                                                     1996
World Bank                 Niger Poverty Assessment ­ A Resilient People in a Harsh        1996
                           Environment
World Bank                 Staff Appraisal Report Health Sector Development Program        1996
World Bank                 Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a             1996
                           proposed credit for a Health Sector Development Program
World Bank                 All Aide Memoires                                               1996-
                                                                                           2003
World Bank                 PSR 1-17                                                        1997-
                                                                                           2003
World Bank                 Several project related documents, incl. Financial Management   1997-
                           and Procurement                                                 2003
World Bank                 ICR Population Project (Credit 2360-NIR)                        1998
World Bank                 Niger Country Assistance Strategy                               2003
World Bank                 Niger : World Bank ­ IMF Relations Annex                        2003
World Bank                 Aligning Assistance for Development Effectiveness ­ Promising   2003
                           Country Experience
World Bank                 Getting Serious about Meeting the MDGs ­ A CDF Progress         2003
                           Report
World Bank                 World Development Report 2004                                   2003
World Bank                 Strategic Framework for IDA's Assistance to Africa: The         2003
                           Emerging Partnership Model
World Bank                 Niger: Enhanced HIPIC Debt Initiative: President's Memorandum 2004
                           and Recommendation and Completion Point Document
World Bank                 Nourrir, Eduquer et Soigner Tous les Nigeriens : La Demographie 2004
                           en Perspective
World Bank / Government of Correspondance between World Bank and Government of Niger       1996-
Niger                                                                                      2004
World Bank / IMF           JSAs of IPRSP, PRSP, PRSP Progress Report                       2000-
                                                                                           2003




                                                       - 37 -

  Additional Annex 8. Project Objectives, Components, and Sub-components



National                                                                With the overall objective of improving the health and well-being of Niger's population, the PDS (National Health Sector Development Plan) seeks to
Program                                                                 § improvethequalityandcoverageofbasichealthserviceswithaparticularfocusonestablishingandsupportingthedistricthealthsystem
Objective                                                               § improvetheavailabilityandaffordabilityofessentialgenericdrugsthroughtherestructuringandstrengtheningofthepharmaceuticalsector
                                                                        § improvesectoreffectivenessandefficiencythrough
                                                                                                                                                       § interventionstostrengthenanddecentralizestrategicsectormanagementandmanagementofresources
                                                                                                                                                       § effortstoappreciatemorefullyandtoutilizemoreeffectivelythecapacityofthevariouspartnersactiveinthehealthsectorinimplementing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  national and district programs

Project                                                                 The objective of the project is to assist the borrower in improving the health condition of its population, through the improvement of
Objectives                                                              § thequalityandcoverageofbasichealthservices
                                                                        § theaccessofthepopulation toessentialgenericdrugs
                                                                        § theefficiencyofagenciesoperatinginitshealthsectorthroughstrengtheningof
                                                                                                                                                       § managementatcentralgovernmentalandatlocallevels
                                                                                                                                                       § theparticipationoftheprivatesectorandthepopulationinthedeliveryofhealthcareservices

Project       1. Improving quality and coverage of basic health                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Improving availability and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Improving sector effectiveness and efficiency
Components    services                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         affordability of essential generic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (project area, Tillaberi, nationwide)
              (project area, nationwide)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       drugs (nationwide)

Project
Subcomponents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                area)
                                                                                                                                                        drug
                 area)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           health
                                                                         district                                                                           nitiali                                                                                                                                  (project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           capacity                                                                                                                    teams                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                              financing
                                                                                 of                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   expansion
                      (project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           management                                                                                                                                            drugs                                                                                                                                               General                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pharmaceutical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      health                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   area,

                              level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MOPH                                                                                                                                    Tillaberi)
                                                                                   equipment                                                                         provision                                                                                                                                                                               management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       accounting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   service                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         management,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                   district                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (project
                                                                                            and                                                                                                                    mechanisms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        hospital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (nationwide)                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          andt                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                             partnerships
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (nationwide)                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                   district                                                                                                                                   delivery,                                                                                                                              referral                                          hospital                                    CHD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         supplies                                                                                                                                           Inspectorate                                                      pharmaceuticals                                                                                                               service                                                                                                                legal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   area

                                           the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     document                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tracting

                                              at                                                                                                                                       PMA                                   recovery-                                                                                                                                                                                iffaD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     design                                                                                                                                                                       for                            drugs                                                                                                                                     Chemical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            offices                                                                                                           capacity                                                                                                                                                              activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                strengthen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            con                                                coordination
                                                                                               construction,                                                                                                                                                                                                                 patient                                                                                                                                                   to                                          surveys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          managemen                                                                                                                                                                                        (project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cots                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       materials,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                      staff                                                                                                           system                                                                                                                                                                                           STD/AIDS                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                     inspection                                                                                                             revision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             participation                                sector
                                                                                                                                                                                          service                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                        program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    district                                                                                                           MOPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            decentralization                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                        M&E                                                                                                                      framework                           system                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                services                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           National                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                strengthening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sector                                                       hospital                                            referral                             equipment                                                   training                                                                                                                                                                                                                  staff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          beneficiary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DPhL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                          health                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   health
                                                                                                            expansion,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     legal                                                                 pharmaceuticala                                                                                                                                                                                                         financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        entralc                                                    and                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                       CSIs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                  equipment,                                                                                                                                                               Laboratories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ONPPC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                              DDS                                             of                                                                                                                           community                                                                                                                  MTR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               functions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                          initiatives
                                                                                                                                           and                                                     package                                                                   health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                           patient                                                                                                                                                                                       Program                                                                                          assistance               MOPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                  and                                              of                       registration                                                                       pharmaceutical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            implementation                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    systems       capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                supervision,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               restructuring                                              ONPPC's                                                                                                                                         area)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      after
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bureau

                                                        Strengthening                                                 Rehabilitation,         hospitals                                                   Minimum                                         stocks,                    Training                                               Strengthening                                                Studies                         Rehabilitation                                                    Tools,         referral                   Epidemiological                                 National                                          Acquisition                                       Technical            Training                Studies,                                    Strengthening                                                                    Revision                           Establish                                 evelopmentD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  area)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Establish                                    Restructuring                                                             ONPPC                                                Improve                                 Strengthening                                                                     Establishment       (project                                     Strengthening                                  Strengthening                                        Development                                                                      Promotion                          implementation                                                    Community           possible                           Project
                                                                     1.1                                                             §                                                                           §                                                                           §                                                           1.2                                                    § § §                                                                                                                                               §                                        1.3                                                  § § § §                                                                                                                                      2.1                 Pharmacies                                              § § § §                                                                                                                                                                   2.2            Products                                           § §                                                                                                  3.1          management                                                           §                                                                § §                                                                                               3.2 (project                                                                   §                                                                                                    §                                                    3.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 9. Regional Scope: Choice and Expansion of Districts


District       Region     Date & Form Agreement           Outcome indicators and       Output indicators     Population1 Poverty 19962            Coverage 19963
                                                          targets defined              and targets defined
                                                                                                                           (national average 63%) national average: 32%



Diffa          Diffa      9/96 DCA                                 Partially                  Partially        142,522              49%4                44.7%5

Maine-Sorao               (5 Original districts)
                                                                                                               135,911                                   25.0%

Goure          Zinder                                                                                          219,802               59%                 16.0%

Mirriah                                                                                                        749,332                                   23.8%

Tanout                                                                                                         331,829                                   24.4%

Filingue       Tillaberi 10/96 Aide Memoire                           No                        No             404,086               80%                 32.0%

Say                       (1. Expansion)
                                                                                                               229,628                                   19.3%

Matameye       Zinder     9/97 Aide Memoire                           No                        No             238,232               59%                 31.0%

Magaria                   (2. Expansion)
                                                                                                               485,703                                     n/a

Bouza          Tahoua                                                                                          269,549               51%                 39.8%

Konni                                                                                                          351,781                                   38.3%

Madaoua                                                                                                        311,055                                   28.1%

Quallam        Tillaberi                                                                                       280,233               80%                 14.0%

N'guigmi       Diffa      11/98 Aide Memoire                          No                        No                                   49%                 51.0%
                          (3. Expansion)                                                                        51,225




12001 Census Data, Source: Rapport général de la préparation et de l'exécution du dénombrement général de la population et de l'habitat 2001, résultats provisoires
2Niger Poverty Assessment ­ A resilient people in a harsh environment, World Bank, 1996
3Source: Epidemiological survey 2003
4Data marked in bold indicate a region where poverty was below national average
5Data marked in bold indicate a district where coverage was already at or above national average




                                                                            - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Insufficient Clarity of Objectives

PDS Objectives:                   Sector Policy Objectives:         PDS Objectives:                           Project Objectives:                       Project Objectives:
PDS 1994-2000                     Sector Policy Declaration 1995-   according to PAD                          As stated in Memorandum of the            As stated in DCA
                                  2000                              (no project objectives stated)            President
The PDS (National Health          The overall objective of the      With the overall objective of improving   The project aims at supporting the        The objective of the project is to assist
Sector Development Plan) had      Sector policy is to improve the   the health and well-being of Niger's      Government's reform of the health         the borrower in improving the health
10 overall objectives (see below) health of Niger's population      population, the PDS (National Health      sector based on its PDS. The credit       condition of its population, through
and 79 specific objectives.       through                           Sector Development Plan) seeks to         would                                     the improvement of

§ Promotemotherandchild           § Decentralizationofbasic         improve the quality and coverage of       support implementation of sector          the quality and coverage of basic
    health including family            health care services with    basic health services with a particular   reforms in 5 districts, chosen by         health services
    Planning, in order to reduce       the development of health    focus on establishing and supporting      MOPH in light of well-established,
    the maternal and infant-           districts                    the district health system                nationally-set criteria, and in light of
    mortality rate                § Increaseefficacyof                                                        activities of other donors in the sector
§ Setuppolicyofessential               preventive health care       improve the availability and              support efforts to reform the             the access of the population to essential
    drugs, laboratories of             system through, inter alia,  affordability of essential generic        pharmaceutical sector and to              generic drugs
    traditional medicine and           vaccination                  drugs through the restructuring and       implement the essential drugs policy
    pharmacopeia                 § Rationalizehealthservices        strengthening of the pharmaceutical
§ Increaseinvestments as               management of human          sector
    regards medical                    resources, materials and     improve sector effectiveness and          support Government in its efforts to      the efficiency of agencies operating in
    infrastructures, materials,        finances                     efficiency through                        take a lead in the strategic              its health sector through strengthening
    equipment and human          § Organizecommunity               § interventionstostrengthenand             management of sector reform and in        of
    resources                          participation through              decentralize strategic sector       the coordination of aid in PDS           § managementatcentral
§ Establishabalance                    introduction of partial            management and management           implementation                                 governmental and at local levels
    between the increase in            cost recovery                      of resources                                                                 § theparticipationoftheprivate
    population and the           § Ensurebetteraccessibility       § effortstoappreciatemorefully                                                            sector and the population in the
    resources allocated to the         and service quality at all         and to utilize more effectively the                                                delivery of health care services
    health sector.                     levels of the health system        capacity of the various partners
§ Setupsystemofan                § Effectiveinter-sectoral                active in the health sector in
    equitable and realistic            collaboration to solve             implementing national and
    management of the                  environmental problems             district programs
    resources
§ Promotetheenvironmental
    hygiene
§ Promotehealtheducation
§ Promotefoodand
    nutritional conditions
§ Setupsystemof
    management of
    Community participation
    and external aid
§ Improvemanagementof
    health and related
    programs




                                                                                           - 40 -

Additional Annex 11. Assessment of Project Outcome and Output Indicators

PAD Indicator                                  Indicator type     Indicator type    Remarks  1

                                               according to       according to
                                               PAD                ICR
Coverage rate                                  outcome            output

Utilization rate                               outcome            outcome

Client satisfaction                            outcome            output

Annual recurrent expenditures of district      outcome            output            No data reported in PSRs
health facilities commensurate with real
annual costs
Actual financial contributions of key          outcome            output            No data reported in PSRs
financiers commensurate with health
financing plan projections
Number of annual action plans prepared         outcome            activity

Number of functioning community                outcome            output
management committees
Number of facilities rehabilitated and         output             output
equipped
Number of facilities constructed and           output             output
equipped
Number of CSI and ECD service delivery         output             activity
staff trained by district
Number of HD Zinder and CHD Diffa and          output             activity
Zinder staff trained
Availability in health facilities of drugs     output             output
included in Government's official essential
drug list
Frequency of orders for stock                  output             activity
replenishment
Number and duration of ruptures in             output             activity
essential drugs stock
Number of district health teams trained and    output             activity/output   § Training=activityindicator
functioning                                                                         § Functioningteams =outputindicator,
                                                                                        used in assessment
Number of Committee de Sante members           output             activity
trained
Number of planning and programming             output             activity
meetings
Number of small-scale service contracts        output             activity
awarded by districts to various local
partners




1indicators shaded in light gray used to assess achievement of project outcomes / achievement of objective;
indicators shaded in dark gray used to assess achievement outputs by components




                                                                    - 41 -

Additional Annex 12. Niger Health System - A System in a Precarious Situation




    Country                                                                                                                                                                                                             Context


  · Extremely high adult illiteracy with significant gender disparity                                                                           · Heavily aid-dependent & significantly decreasing aid per capita
  · GDP/capita significantly declining                                                       Health Outcomes                                                  · Population explosion, world's highest fertility rate
  · Extremely high poverty rate                                                                                                                                         · Very rural & huge rural/urban disparities
                                                                                   · Most essential health needs far from being covered
                                                                                                                                                                                     · World's second lowest HDI
                                                                                       · Low and slightly decreasing life expectancy
                                                                                               · Increasing child malnutrition
                                                                                           · Very high infant and child mortality
                                                                                 · One of the highest maternal mortality rates in the world



                                                                                                      Quality of Care
                                                 Accessibility                                 · Poor quality of health care services               Performance Sector
                                  · Increasing potential coverage, but most health             · Main bottleneck is health care staff                     Organizations
                                         infrastructures not fully functioning
                                                                                                                                             · Most health centers and district hospitals not     Sector
                                    · Low and worsening financial accessibility                   Health Care Staff                                         fully functioning                                            Government
                                              because of cost recovery
                                                                                                                                               · District and central MOH level do not set
                                  · Low and worsening socio-cultural accessibility          · Insufficient number of health care staff
                                                                                           · Poorly distributed with major imbalance                        adequate priorities                         Policies
                                                                                                           urban ­rural                        · Institutions not able to address systemic
                                                                                     · Unemployed doctors while many hospitals without                          bottlenecks
          Communities/                            Utilization                                                doctors
                                  · Very low utilization of modern health services                   · Limited staff capacities                                                                                 &                  &
                                           for curative and preventive care                                                                  Public Health Expenditures
                                                                                                    · Lack of polyvalent staff                                                                                                      Donor
                                       · Extremely low utilization by the poor              · Staff leaving districts to go for training          · Low and decreasing public health                             Actions
                                                                                                     · High turnover of staff                                  expenditures

                                                                                                  · Perverse incentive structure
                                Participation & Cost Recovery
                      Household       · Narrow focus on financial participation                                                                Donor Sector Performance
                                  · Cost recovery excludes/disempowers the poor            Infrastructure & Recurrent                             · Low and decreasing donor support
                                     · Even contraceptives are on cost recovery                                Costs                            · Poor but improving donor coordination
                                    · Too narrow focus concerning private sector              · Too much focus on increasing coverage
                                                     participation                      · Many health centers and district hospitals too big
                                                                                              · Significantly increasing recurrent costs


                                                                                                     Drugs availability
                                                                                          · Significant stock-outs on most essential drugs
                                                                                                 · High costs of drugs for the poor
                                                                                                         incl. contraceptives
                                                                                                 · Decreasing financial accessibility

                                                                                                       Health Sector




                                                                                                      - 42 -

Additional Annex 13. Data Supporting Assessment of Niger's Health System

                                                          Indicator                                      Data (Year)                Source, Remarks
                                                          Total population in million        4.2 (70)      9.2 (95)       11,1 (01) Human Development Report 2003
                                                          Annual population growth rate                   3,2 (75-01)               Human Development Report 2003
  context                                                 in %
                                                          Total fertility rate (births per       7.6 (90)              7.2 (01)     World Development Indicators
                                                          woman)                                                                    2003
                                                          GDP per capita in US$              556 (60)      190 (95)        180 (01) Human Development Report 2003
         Country                                                                                                                    World Development Indicators
                                                                                                                                    2003
                                                          GDP per capita annual growth        -2.0 (75-01)           -0.9 (90-01)   Human Development Report 2003
                                                          rate in %
                                                          Population below US$1day in %                     63 (96)                 World Bank Poverty Assessment
                                                                                                                                    1996
                                                          Adult illiteracy in %              88.6 (90)    86.4 (95)       83.5 (01) Human Development Report 2003
                                                          Female adult illiteracy in %          93.3 (95)             91.1 (01)     Human Development Report 2003
                                                          Rural population in %                 89,4 (75)              79 (01)      Human Development Report 2003
                                                          Life expectancy at birth in years  35.3 (60)    47.5 (95)       45.6 (01) Human Development Report 2003
                                                          Under five mortality rate by       320 (90)      295 (95)        265 (01) Human Development Report 2003,
                                                          1000 live birth                                                           MDG objective: 107
                outcomes                                  Under five mortality rate per                               293 (01)      PRSP 2002
                                                          1000 live birth in rural areas
                                                          Under five mortality rate per                               126 (01)      DSRP 2002
                        Health                            1000 live birth in urban areas
                                                          Infant mortality rate per 1000     197 (70)      191 (90)        156 (01) Human Development Report 2003,
                                                          live birth                                                                MDG objective: 64
                                                          Maternal mortality ratio per          1200 (90)             920 (95)      Human Development Report 2003,
                                                          100,000 live births                                                       MDG objective: 230
                                                          Children underweight under 5 in        36 (92)               40 (00)      PRSP 2002
                                                          %
                                                          Children undersize per age under       32 (92)               40 (00)      PRSP 2002
                                                          5 in %
                                                          Undernourished children (weight    15 (92)        19 (98)        20 (01)  DHS 1992 and 1998
                                                          for age 3 standard deviations
                                                          from the mean) in %
                                                          Undernourished children (weight       18.9 (92)             22.6 (98)     DHS 1992 and 1998
                                                          for age 3 standard deviations
                                                          from the mean) among the 3
                                                          lowest quintiles of wealth index
                                                          in %
                                                          Average utilization rate country-      18 (96)               24 (02)      PSR 17
                                                          wide in %
                                                          Average utilization rate in 14         42 (96)               26 (02)      PSR 17
                                                          project supported districts in %
                                                          Average coverage rate country-         32 (96)              47,7 (02)     PSR 17; This coverage seems to
                              Utilization                 wide in %                                                                 include the "case de sante" built
                                                                                                                                    through the President's special
                                         and                                                                                        program (HIPIC)
                                                          Average coverage rate in 14           27.2 (96)             30.0 (02)     Epidemiological Survey 2003;
                                                          project supported districts in %                                          This coverage seems not to include
                                                                                                                                    the increase through the "case de
                                                                                                                                    sante" built through the President's
                                            Accessibility                                                                           special program (HIPIC)




                                                                                                            - 43 -

                                                             Prenatal care in rural areas                      36 (00)               PRSP 2002
                                                             provided by skilled staff in %
                                                             Prenatal care for women in                        29 (00)               PRSP 2002
                                                             lowest income group provided
                                                             by skilled staff in rural areas in
                                                             %
                                                             Birth attended by skilled            20 (95)      18 (98)      16 (00)  World Development Indicators
                                                             personnel in %                                                          2003
                                                             Rural women birth attended by                                   9 (00)  PRSP 2002
                                                             skilled personnel in %
                                                             Utilization rate prenatal care in   55.6 (96)    43.4 (99)    45.6 (02) Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             14 project supported districts in
                                                             %
                                                             Utilization rate nutrition          54.8 (96)    44.7 (99)    43.7 (02) Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             consultation in 14 project
                                                             supported districts in %
                                                             Utilization rate family planning     3.9 (96)     4.3 (98)     3.8 (02) Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             services in 14 project supported
                                                             districts in %
                                                             Measles vaccination in 14               120 (96)           44.5 (02)    Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             project supported districts in %
                                                             DTP 3rd dosis in 14 project             52.5 (96)          50.8 (02)    Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             supported districts in %
                                                             Poor people seeking care outside                 45.2 (98)              Academy for Educational
                                                             the home for young children                                             Development 2004
                                                             with illness (2 lowest quintiles of
                                                             wealth index) in %
                                                             Poor people seeking care at a                    11.9 (98)              Academy for Educational
                                                             public health facility for young                                        Development 2004
                                                             children with illness (2 lowest
                                                             quintiles of wealth index) in %
                                                             Poor people seeking care at a                     6.2 (98)              Academy for Educational
                                                             traditional healer for young                                            Development 2004
                                                             children with illness (2 lowest
                                                             quintiles of wealth index) in %
                                                             Private health expenditures as %                  1.8 (00)              Human Development Report 2003

and                                                          of GDP
                                                             Number of CSIs in 14 project                      100 (03)              PSR 17
                                                             supported districts under cost
                                                             recovery in %
                                 recovery                    Number of village health                         1,784 (03)             PSR 17
                                                             committees in 14 project
   Participation                         Cost                supported districts
                                                             Functioning HD financed by the                    31 (03)               Epidemiological survey 2003
                                                             project in %
                                                             Unhelpful attitude of care                        51 (02)               Participatory Poverty Assessment
                                                             personnel in % as perceived by                                          2002
                                                             the poor
                and                                          Example Dosso Region: District           10 (96)            1 (03)      Belgian Cooperation 2003
                                                             health doctors able to do surgery
                   care                      staff
                                                             Example Dosso Region:                     2 (96)            1 (03)      Belgian Cooperation 2003
                       of                         care       Average number of nurses in
                                                             CSIs
                                                             Example Quallam HD: number           2 (98)        2 (01)       1 (03)  GTZ 2003
                         Quality                      health of doctors




                                                                                                              - 44 -

                 Example Quallam HD: number          7 (98)       6 (01)       5 (03)    GTZ 2003
                 of nurses
                 Example Ouallam: number of          7 (99)       11 (01)      11 (03)   GTZ 2003
                 health staff leaving
                 Example Ouallam: number of          0 (99)       3 (01)       5 (03)    GTZ 2003
                 health staff leaving on long term
                 training
                 Example Ouallam: number of          15 (99)      7 (01)       6 (03)    GTZ 2003
                 health staff arriving
                 Number of unemployed doctors,                    200 (04)               MOH 2004
                 estimate
                 Poor people who think that                       55 (02)                PRSP 2002
                 numbers of nurses and midwives
                 were grossly inadequate, in %
                 Population per nurse                4,500         730         31,790    PDS 1994-2000, Draft Plan de
                                                    (country     (Niamey      (Dakoro    Developpement Sanitaire 2003-
                                                    average        1991)       district  2007 ; WHO recommendation
                                                   1991); 9,515                 1991)    1 : 5,000
                                                    (country
                                                    average
                                                     2002)
                 Population per doctor               75,000        8,770      351,000    PDS 1994-2000, Draft Plan de
                                                    (country     (Niamey      (Dakoro    Developpement Sanitaire 2003-
                                                    average        1991)       district  2007 ; WHO recommendation
                                                     1991);                     1991)    1 :10,000
                                                     36,088
                                                    (country
                                                    average
                                                     2002)
                 Expected pregnancies per            1,860         680         15,000    PDS 1994-2000, Draft Plan de
                 midwife                            (country     (Niamey      (Dakoro    Developpement Sanitaire 2003-
                                                    average        1991)       district  2007 ; WHO recommendation
                                                     1991);                     1991)    1 :5,000
                                                     5,849
                                                    (country
                                                    average
                                                     2002)
                 Contracted health care staff           452 (02)           490 (03)      World Bank Enhanced HIPIC Debt
                 outside civil service                                                   Initiative: President's
                                                                                         Memorandum and
                                                                                         Recommendation and Completion
                                                                                         Point Document 2004
                 Poor people complaining about                    51 (02)                Participatory Poverty Assessment
                 high costs of drugs, in %                                               2002
                 Stock-out average number of             83 (97)           54 (03)       National project evaluation
                 days of 20 most essential drugs                                         document 2004
                 in project districts
                 Number of drugs with stock-outs         16 (97)           19 (03)       National project evaluation
                 among the 20 most essential                                             document 2004
                 drugs in project districts
                 Number of drugs with more than          11 (97)           12 (03)       National project evaluation
                 30 days stock out in project                                            document 2004
availability     districts
                 Maximum number of days for             360 (97)           150 (97)
            Drug stock outs in project districts




                                                                - 45 -

                    Public health expenditure as %        3.4 (90)           1.8 (01)      Human Development Report 2003,
                    of GDP                                                                 World Development Indicators
                                                                                           2003
                    Public health expenditures as %   6.65 (96)    6.22 (98)    5.84 (00)  Draft Plan de Developpement
Health Exp.         of budget                                                              Sanitaire 2003-2007
                    Net ODA (US$ million)              365 (92)    187 (99)     249 (01)   OECD/DAC 2004
                    Net ODA per capita (US$)          44.2 (92)     18 (99)     22.3 (01)  OECD/DAC 2004
                    Average annual ODA by DAC           207.7       142.4         125.9    OECD/DAC 2004
                    countries (US$ million)            (92-93)     (96-97)       (01-02)
                    Average share of ODA by DAC          9.9         9.0           3.1     OECD/DAC 2004
                    countries for health sector in %   (92-93)     (96-97)       (00-01)
                    Average of health sector ODA                      40                   OECD/DAC 2004
           flows    spent by DAC countries on                      (98-00)
                    health and population policy and
                Aid administration in %




                                                                  - 46 -

Additional Annex 14. Degree of Functioning of Health Infrastructures Visited During ICR
Mission



1. Project area

Region     District          Locality           CSI-Type 11       CSI-Type 22       HD3      Other Degree of functioning4
                                                new      rehab5 new        rehab                      not         part   fully
Tahoua     Birni N'Conni     Birni N'Conni                                             X                                    6
           Madaoua           Madaoua                                                   X              X
Zinder     Tanout            Tanout                                                    X              X
                             Sabon Kafi                                       X                                   X
                             Bakin Birji                                      X                                   X
           Mirriah           Mirriah                                                   X              X
           Gouré             Gouré                                                     X              X
                             Tirmini                                          X                                   X
Diffa7     Mainé Soroa       Mainé Soroa                                               X              X
                             Mainé Soroa                                      X
           Diffa             Diffa                                                           CHR8                        X9
                             Diffa                                            X                                   X
Tillabéry Say                Torodi                                           X
                             Dogona               X                                                               X
                             Bolsi                                                           old
                             Allaréni             X                                                               X
                             Cohan-Garanke        X10                                                                    X
           Ouallam           Ouallam                                                   X                                   11



2. Outside project area

Dosso12    Dogon-Doutchi Dogon-Doutchi                                                 X              X
                             Dogon-Doutchi                                                   Urban                       X
Tahoua     Aguié13           Aguié                                                     X              X




1 Centre de Sante Integre (CSI) Type 1 : CSI with reduced functions
2 CSI Type 2 : CSI with expanded functions
3 HD = District Hospital
4 Criteria for assessing degree of functionality
only quantitative criteria applied as necessary qualitative criteria not able to assess through a short visit
(i) sufficient personnel;
(ii) no stock-out on most essential drugs;
(iii) infrastructure and equipment in place;
(vi) additional decisive criteria for functioning HD: Operation theater is fully equipped and surgical team is in place.
Fully functioning = all criteria in place
partially functioning = two criteria in place
not functioning = none or only one criteria in place
5 Rehabilitation of CSI 1 and CSI 2 included significant expansion
6 Birni N'Conni : 55 Km from the private not-for-profit hospital of Gami (Tarred Road). Although surgical interventions are
carried out, the surgical team is not permanently available
7 All 10 new CSIs in Diffa region are closed
8 CHR = Regional Hospital
9 CHR Diffa functions thanks to Cuban cooperation; medical specialists trained by the project did not join Diffa CHD
10  Reduced size because of financial constraints as all 22 CSIs in the second tranche of construction
11 HD Ouallam functions thanks to the strong support of German Alafia-GTZ project
12 Dosso Region : Belgian support
13 Aguie District : African Development Bank support




                                                                        - 47 -

Additional Annex 15. Problems Surrounding Health Care Staff

Staff quantity Especially in more rural and remote districts there is a significant shortage of health care
               staff. 65% of professional health care staff and 72% of administrative support staff work
               in the 7 urban areas where less than 25% of the population lives. The government has
               tried to address this by employing contractual staff outside the public service, but for
               many the prime objective is to leave these positions as soon as possible. There is also the
               unfortunate situation that many health care staff are currently unemployed while there is a
               shortage of health care personnel in district health centers and hospitals.

Dependency     The health system is currently dependent on expatriate health care staff, particularly
on expatriate  medical doctors, mainly from Cuba. These doctors work in the remote areas and ensure a
staff          minimal functioning of the health services in many of these areas.

Delays in      Frequent delays reduce staff motivation and lead to frequent strikes, including strikes
salary         without service.
payments

Specialization Another important issue concerning health care staff is high specialization. For example,
               in order for an operation theatre in a district hospital to function, currently a surgeon, a
               radiologist, and an anesthetist is needed, even if only few operations are done per week.
               Hence, the system is very fragile, because as soon as one specialist leaves or is on training
               the hospital does not function. What is needed, especially in the districts, is polyvalent
               health care staff.

Incentive      The current system does not reward staff working in rural and remote areas, nor does it
system         reward staff that stay for a longer period of time in the same health facility. It also does
               not promote the hiring and maintaining of staff from the respective local area which
               would significantly contribute to reduced staff mobility.

Missing        The extremely high and increasing mobility rate is one of the biggest bottlenecks for
continuity     providing quality health care service at the district level, due mainly to the dysfunction of
               the incentive system.

Socio-         Psycho-social accessibility is an important dimension in order to increase utilization.
cultural       Considering that a CSI corresponds to a General Practitioner in western countries, one
issues         needs to question whether relatively huge health centers, often so different from the local
               buildings, staffed with civil servants, often from another region and normally moving
               frequently from one health center to another can deliver quality service.

Staff capacity Staff quality is a major concern and is not increasing, despite frequent trainings. For
               example, in the Dosso region the number of qualified surgeons has systematically
               decreased from 10 to 1.

Education      While education and training should help to improve service quality it currently produces
and Training   counterproductive effects, despite or because of a significant increase in training provided
               to health care staff. It is mostly missing relevance because it is not adapted to reality (the
               "what" of training) and it is delivered in the wrong way (the "how" of training). The
               delivery form is still mainly formal classroom training instead of work-based learning,
               forcing staff to leave their jobs, either for short-term trainings or permanently. Training is
               also the only way for personnel to get better positions, better salary etc., creating a vicious
               circle.




                                                              - 48 -

Additional Annex 16. Unsatisfactory Efficiency Infrastructure Subcomponents

The use of scarce project resources to accomplish the objectives and the expected
outcome (increased utilization rate) is unsatisfactory. The project invested heavily in
infrastructure and equipment (66% of disbursements), and within the infrastructure
subcomponents resources were not used efficiently:

1.      Investing in too large health centers

The average size of all project-financed health centers is significantly larger (62%) than
those financed by the Belgian Cooperation and also slightly larger (9%) than those
financed by the African Development Bank. The project supported the Government in
defining norms (size of CSIs) and followed the norms in the first phase of construction,
but reduced the size in the second construction phase due to financial limitations. Other
donors, like Belgium, did not follow the norms as they appear not to be adapted.

The size of the health centers is also very large compared to neighboring country Chad
where rural health centers have a size of only 172 m2 (including staff housing): The
rehabilitated CSIs are more than twice as large and the new CSIs are about 1/3 larger than
rural health centers in Chad:


CSI type                    Rehabilitation and expansion                 New construction
                                     (43 CSIs)                               (50 CSIs)

                Original size     Expanded to          Increase %

CSI 1              135 m2            298 m2              221%                 196 m2

CSI 2              127 m2            445 m2              350%                 329 m2

CSI reduit            -                  -                  -                 167 m2

CSI average        131 m2            372 m2              284 %                231 m2


Sizes of CSIs include staff housing.

Other donors : (i) Belgian Cooperation: CSI size 230 m2; (ii) ADB: CSI average size 342
m2 (CSI1 size 307 m2, CSI2 size 377 m2)


2.      Too much investment in over-expansion of existing health centers

The project invested too much in the rehabilitation and expansion of existing health
centers. Through the rehabilitation and massive expansion by in average 284% of 43
existing health centers too many resources were invested without increasing coverage and
without significantly contributing to improved service quality.




                                                      - 49 -

3.     Wrong infrastructure priorities

Within the heavy focus on construction wrong priorities were set. Some of the districts
chosen did not correspond to the project's poverty focus and/or had already a coverage
rate above the national average. An example is the Diffa region and the Diffa district
where, in addition to the previous two arguments, construction costs were higher
compared to other regions. Hence, 25.4% of the overall project resources were spent in
the Diffa region, mostly for construction and infrastructure, in a region with about
330.000 people (corresponding to 7.8% of the population in the project area) and
increasing geographic potential coverage for only about 50,000 people. But as all of the
new CSIs are closed, real coverage has not been increased so far (see also Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits).


4.     High CSI construction unit costs

The average construction costs per m2 for new CSIs were significantly higher compared
with CSIs financed by the Belgian Cooperation (214% ) or the African Development
Bank (24%):


CSI type          Tillaberi, Zinder regions             Diffa Region         Regional average
                         Average unit costs        Average unit costs       Average unit costs

CSI1                          271,952 CFA              372,002 CFA               321,977 CFA

CSI2                          220,187 CFA                           -            220,187 CFA

CSI reduit                    204,832 CFA              260,958 CFA               232,895 CFA

CSI average                   232,324 CFA              316,480 CFA               258,353 CFA


Other donors: (i) Belgian Cooperation: Unit costs 108,696 CFA per m2 (construction
costs outside Diffa region); (ii) ADB: Average unit costs 186,667 CFA per m2
(construction costs outside Diffa region)

Construction unit costs for the rehabilitation of the 43 existing CSIs were significantly
lower than for the construction of the new health centers (construction unit costs
rehabilitation and expansion: 113,000/150,000 CFA). According to the PCU this was
partly due to a high increase of construction materials and CSI sites more remote and
scattered.




                                                  - 50 -

Additional Annex 17. Outputs and Activities Planned / Realized

Component/Subcomponent                                                                                                                                                                                             Planned                                    Realized
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Strengthening      § Rehabilitation,expansion,               § Rehabilitation/expansionandequipmentof43
                                                                                                                                                                                                 services at the        equipment 31 or 33 CSIs (25 CS1,           CSIs; construction and equipment of 50 CSIs (22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8 CS2); Construction and                   with reduced size); many of these health
                                                                                                                                                                                                 district level         equipment of 43 new CSIs (35               facilities closed or only partially functioning
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (project area)         CS1, 8 CS2)                           § Construction,completion,equipmentof13HD;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    § Districthospitals:constructionand            9 of these 13 HD not functioning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        equipment of 4 HD in Goure,           § PMAdeliverypartiallyrealizedconcerning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tanout, Diffa, Maine-S.                    initial drug inventory, but all 10 new CSIs in
 Services                                                                                                                                                                                                           § MinimumpackageofservicePMA                   Diffa region closed due to missing initial drug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        delivery, provision of initial drug        inventory; cost recovery mechanism fully
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inventory, implementation of cost-         introduced with major negative implications. 20
         Health                                                                                                                                                                                                         recovery mechanisms                        most essential drugs frequently out of stock
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    § Trainingof3036healthsectorstaff,        § 4200healthsectorstafftrained; 15stafftrained
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        plus 18 HD Zinder, 10 CHD Diffa &          through long-term training (including 9 gyneco-
               Basic                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zinder                                     obstetricians, 3 surgeons) but non of this staff is
                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             working in HDs

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Strengthening      § Studiesofpatientreferralsystem          § Onestudydone(Etudedusecteurhospitalieraux
                                                                                                                                                                                                 hospital patient       and hospital management                    niveau secondaire et tertaire)

                      coverage                                                                                                                                                                   referral capacity  § Rehabilitationandequipmentof            § CHDDiffarehabilitatedandequipped

                                                                                                                                                                                                 (project area)         Diffa CHD                             § 2epidemiologicalsurveysand3beneficiary
                              and                                                                                                                                                                                   § Tools,systemsandtrainingto                   surveys done ­ epidemiological survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        strengthen hospital management             scheduled at beginning of project not realized,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and referral capacity                      hence baseline data and targets for many
                                 quality                                                                                                                                                                            § Epidemiologicalbeneficiarysurveys            indicators only defined at MTR

                                        the                                             nationwide)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 National           § Acquisitionofequipment,                 § Acquisitionofcontraceptivesandcondoms,put
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        materials, supplies and drugs              under cost recovery
                                                                                                   area,                                                                                         Program for                                                  § UNFPATBdrugsacquiredin1999toaddress
                                                                                                                                                                                                 STD/AIDS           § Technicalassistanceinprogram                 emergency situation in country, more than 1 year
                                                                                                                                                                                                 (nationwide)           design and management                      delay in delivery, issue not fully settled yet
                                           Improving                                                                                                                                                                § TrainingofMOPHstaff                     § Financingcountry-wideHIV/AIDSprevalenceas
                                                    1.                                                  (project                                                                                                    § Studies,supervision,M&E                      preparation for MAP project

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Strengthening      § Revisionofthelegalframework             § Revisionoflegalframeworkdone,5private
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for pharmaceuticals                        drugs providers and 52 private pharmacies
                                                                                                                drugs                                                                            DPhL and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Registration system for drugs established
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Inspectorate       § Establishregistrationsystemfor

                                                                                                                                                                                                 General for            drugs                                 § Pharmaceuticalinspectionserviceestablished

                                                      and                                                                                                                                                           § Developmentofapharmaceutical
                                                                                                                     generic                                                                     Pharmacies and         document service
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    § Establishpharmaceuticalinspection
                                                         supply                                                                                                                                                         service

                                                               the                                                          essential                                                            Restructuring of   § ONPPCrestructuringandrevision           § RestructuringofONPPCinthreedifferent
                                                                                                                                     of                                                          National               of legal status                            entities occurred, monopoly broken, but ONPPC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   legal status until today not approved
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Chemical and       § ImproveONPPC'sfinancial
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pharmaceutical         management and accounting             § ONPPCmanagementcapacitynotimproved.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        capacity                                   External audit conclusions: weak drug
                                                                  Improving                                                                                                                      Products Bureau                                                   management, lack of adequate internal ONPPC
                                                                           2.                                                          distribution            (nationwide)                      ONPPC                                                             organization

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Strengthening      § Establishmentofhealthdistrict           § Districtofficesandhealthteamsestablished,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        offices and district health teams          teams partially functioning (e.g. no coordination
                                                                                                                                                                                   in            and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (project area)                             meetings in 2003 as no project funds available).
                                                                                                                                                                                                 decentralization                                                  HDs still without legal status
                                                                                                                                                   and                                           of MOPH key        § StrengtheningDDScapacity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (project area and Tillaberi)          § DDScapacitypartiallystrengthened,no
                                                                                                                                                                                                 management         § StrengtheningofcentralMOPH                   coordination meetings since 2002, lack of funds
                                                                             Building                                                                                                            functions              capacity (nationwide)                 § MOPHnotstrengthened.PDShasnotbeen
                                                                                     3.                                                               capacity             forging   partnerships                                                                  transformed into multi-annual rolling plans




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 51 -

Additional Annex 18. Translated Summary Government Report


                                            REPUBLIC OF NIGER
             HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (HEALTH II) (Cr. 2915-NIR)


                   ENGLISH SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT COMPLETION REPORT


1.        Project objectives and institutional framework


The main objective of the project was to assist the Ministry of Public Health (MOH) to implement its
health sector policy which is based on the improvement of the quality of health and the well being of the
population. The MOH has established a Project Implementation Unit to coordinate implementation of
project activities.


2.        Evaluation of the overall project outcomes


Component 1: Improving quality and coverage of basic health services (17,886,209,600 CFA):
The Project rehabilitated, upgraded, and equipped 43 CSIs, 4 District Hospitals, the Diffa Regional
Hospital and supplied 86 CSIs with drinking water and 36 CSIs with solar energy. The project built and
equipped 50 CSIs, delivered 27 vehicles, 138 motorbikes and an important batch of related spare parts to
strengthen the different services. In addition, it carried out supplemental works of the Population project
by equipping 9 HD. At the same time, the project supported the national program of fight against
tuberculosis and the national program of fight against AIDS by providing an important stock of anti-
tuberculosis drugs, reactives for HIV screening, contraceptives and condoms, and medical devices. One of
the project objectives was to increase coverage. It is important to note that the data produced for the final
project evaluation did not take into account the new CSIs built in the districts. Hence, the coverage rate in
the project area will significantly increase in 2004. 13 specialists were trained on surgery, gynecology-
obstetric, pediatric, and biomedical engineering. 4,200 staff acquired knowledge/skills during seminars and
workshops. 14 district development plans were elaborated and converted into 97 annual action plans.
Finally, 111 annual action plans were prepared at the regional and central levels.


Component 2: Improving supply and distribution of essential generic drugs (3,810,796,721 CFA):
To ensure greatest availability of drugs, medical consumables and medical devices/mechanisms, the MOH
has reformed the pharmaceutical sector. These reforms led to (i) the establishment of a legislative
framework and procedures, which are contributing to facilitate the distribution of essential generic drugs;
(ii) the opening of the drug markets to the private sector (creation of 6 private drugstores, 52 private
pharmacies); and (iii) the reorganization of the "Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et
Chimiques" (ONPPC) with 3 units - the unit of production (SONIPHAR), the unit of wholesale-retail, and
the National Laboratory of Public Health and Expertise ensuring the quality control of the drugs. A list of
20 essential molecules was retained to evaluate the availability of the essential generic drugs. The project
has helped the country to improve the availability of the mentioned molecules in the health centers, and to
organize the traditional pharmacopoeia sector. It provided pharmaceuticals with an important financial
assistance of 3,810,796,721 CFA, of which 2.3 billion for essential generic drugs for the health centers
through ONPPC.


Component 3: Building capacity and forging partnership in support of health sector reform
(4,161,588,443 CFA):
In order to support the performance of the district health teams, and to increase awareness of the
population concerning their own responsibilities within the CSI, the project has established an institutional
framework including coordination meetings, and contributed to the implementation of the cost recovery
mechanism. It is organized around annual coordination meetings at the central level, two semi-annual
meetings at the regional level, and four meetings per year at the district level. Nearly 1,785 health
management committees have been established in the districts of the project area. To highlight the level of
functionality of these committees it is essential to notice that 138 general meetings were organized. The
population assisted in the closing of 169 donor financed health centers. The partnership approach is an




                                                              - 52 -

innovation of the project in the country, aiming at sustaining the reform in the health sector by
strengthening the private sector according to its comparative advantages. 88 contracts were executed in
this component to support the annual action plan of the health district by sensitization of population,
maintenance, distribution of the gas for the cold chain for immunization products, etc.


3.        Major factors affecting implementation and outcomes


3.1       Negative impacts

§ Politicalinstabilityofthecountryconsiderablydelayedprojectimplementation,includingcoupd'etats
     in 1996 and in 1999.
§ ExtrememobilityofMOHstaffaffectedtheexecutionofprojectactivities. 8ministerswereappointed
     during project implementation, leading to major changes of MOH staff at all levels. In addition, the
     first project coordinator left the PIU for training in September 1997, and the position was not filled for
     16 months.
§ Projectmanualaswellasitsinstitutionalframeworkwerenotfollowed. Themanualstatedthat
     procurement, financial management, and the whole technical follow-up of the project are entrusted to
     specific directorates (DAF, EPD, DF/GP) of the MOH. But these directorates did not accomplish their
     mission during project implementation.
§ Althoughtheywerenotplannedforinthelegaldocument,butagreedwiththeWorldBank,some
     activities (civil works and equipment of 9 new HD) of the Population Project were executed by the
     project during its first two years.
§ Difficultiesofmobilizingcounterpartfundsaffectedtheperformanceoftheproject. Ofthetotal
     amount of 1,050 million CFA planned, only 600 million F CFA was disbursed at the closing date of
     the project, about 57,14%.
§ SuspensionofIDAdisbursements,followingthenon-paymentofdebtin1999,considerablydelayed
     project implementation.
§ Socio-economiceventssignificantlyaffectedtheproject:in1998and1999atleast60daysperyearof
     work suspension (strikes) and the non-payment of civil servants in 1999 for more than 9 months led to
     non-motivation of project staff.

3.2       Positive impacts

§ Adoptionofthenewconstitutionandorganizationoffreeandtransparentelections(legislativeand
     presidential) in 1999 created political stability and the resumption of the international cooperation.
§ Preparationofcertaindistrictdevelopmentandactionplans.
§ Legalframeworkforcommunityparticipationinthehealthsectorcontributedtothegeneralizationof
     the cost recovery system and the promotion of community participation in other sectors.
§ PDS,declarationofsectorpolicy,andthedistrictdevelopmentplansfacilitatedplanningand
     programming of the different project activities.


4.        Project sustainability

In order to ensure the sustainability of the investments carried out by the project, the following priority
actions must be taken:
§ Thecountryshould (i)prepareandimplementanationalmaintenancepolicyforinfrastructuresand
     equipment; (ii) take actions to fund recurrent costs and ensure the effective functionality of the medical
     centers (CSI, HD, etc.); (iii) put in place a general framework for hospitals; and (iv) regularly follow-
     up on the inventory of materials and equipments.
Regarding the staffing and training, personnel has to be redeployed, particularly the specialists. New staff
should be recruited. The country has to implement ongoing courses on surgery for specialized doctors,
train new doctors on surgery and other specialists (assistant-surgeons, anesthetists assistants




                                                               - 53 -

§ andradiooperators). Anincentiveplanhastobepreparedandimplemented. Capacityofcommunity
   management team members and the respective structures need to be strengthened.
§ Essentialgenericdrugsandcostrecoveryactivitieshavetobetracked. Theinstallationofthe
   participation community structures for the new CSI has to be closely followed. The new CSIs have to
   be provided with an inventory of drugs. The availability of the reactives for laboratory and radiology
   services has to be improved, and a regular control system for medical training centers needs to be
   established.
§ Asregardstothepartnershipactivities,thecoordinationmeetingsandthesystemofcontractinghave
   to be sustained. Auxiliary personnel has to be recruited by the local communities.


5.      Government, project implementation unit, World Bank, and other stakeholder performance

§ Governmentperformance(MOH):Humanresourcesweredeployedwithintheframeworkofthe
   project. There was an effective political engagement of the Government through the mobilization of
   different actors (political and administrative authorities, community groups, population representatives,
   and technical experts) for the implementation of the project. In addition, the Government has
   supported the project with the exemption of taxes. The Government has monitored the project
   activities at all levels, and facilitated the endorsement of the project by the population.
§ Implementationunitperformance:Projectactivities,whichweresupposedtobeimplementedby
   MOH directorates, were effectively and efficiently accomplished by the staff of the PIU. The level of
   technical assistance was appreciable.
§ WorldBankperformance: Implementationofprojectactivitieswasregularlysupervisedwith
   flexibility and prompt actions taken. It is important to mention proximity and on time actions taken on
   all the request from the Borrower since the placement of the TTL and financial management and
   procurement staff in the country office. The Bank made two reallocations of funds and an extension of
   the closing date of the project which enabled the Borrower to meet the project's investment objectives.
   The level of disbursement level is substantial.
§ Performanceofconsultants,executingagencies,technicalassistanceprovidersandline
   Ministries: Major problems with NIGETIP concerning insufficient monitoring and control of the
   rehabilitation and construction of 21 new CSIs. Significant delays in the contract awarded to UNFPA
   for providing the country with contraceptives and condoms. Insufficient control in the implementation
   of the project's water and energy activities by the respective Ministries.

6.      Strengths, weaknesses and lessons learned

§ Strengths:Improvementoftheavailabilityoftheessentialsgenericdrugsalloverthecountry;high
   quality of services in the health centers; extension of medical coverage; expansion of cost recovery
   mechanism throughout the country; quality assurance of services; development of partnerships and
   community participation; control of the planning process.
§ Weaknesses: Non-availabilityofadequatehumanresourcesandexcessivestaffmobility;manyofthe
   HDs built, rehabilitated, upgraded, and equipped are not functional; participation of the community in
   project implementation insufficient; lack of appropriate filing system of documentation; points raised
   in beneficiary survey: inappropriate behaviors and treatment of patients by CSI staff; high costs of
   health care services at the level of national hospitals and reference centers.
§ Lessonslearned: Partnershipbecamearealitywithmanycontractssignedwithdifferent
   organizations; in spite of the weaknesses noticed in the management of cost recovery, partial cost
   recovery has being introduced and is firmly-rooted in the population's habits; a general idea of quality
   assurance has been introduced in the project area; capacity of health personnel has been reinforced
   with knowledge on planning, monitoring and management; working behaviors and methods of health
   personnel has improved considerably; project activities have a good visibility in project areas.




                                                             - 54 -

- 55 -

