Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15443-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
August 6, 1996
Human Development III
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1996)
1 US$ = 500 CFA franc
I FF I100 CFA franc
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CFA        Communautjfinanciere africaine (African Financial Community)
CHD        Centre hospitalier departemental (Departmental Hospital Center)
CHU        Centre hospitalier universitaire (University Hospital Center)
CPPR       Country Project Performance Review
CPR        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CSI        Centre de sante integre (Integrated Health Center)
DDS        Direction departementale de la sante (Departmental Health Directorate)
DEP        Direction des etudes et de la programmation (Directorate of Studies and Planning)
DPhL       Direction des pharmacies et laboratoires (Directorate of Pharmacy and Laboratories)
DAF,'M     Direction des affairesfinancieres et du matreiel (Directorate of Financial Affairs and Materials)
EDF        European Development Fund
EU         European Union
FP         Family Planning
HD         H6pital de district (District Hospital)
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IEC        Information, Education, and Communication
MCH        Maternal and Child Health
MFP        Ministry of Finance and Plan
MOPH       Ministry of Public Health
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ONPPC      Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques (National Chemical and Pharmaceutical
Products Bureau)
ORT        Oral Rehydration Therapy
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PHC        Primary Health Care
PMA        Paquet minimum d'activites (Minimum Package of Services)
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PTD        Plan Triennal de Developpement (Three-year Development Plan)
SA         Special Account
SNIS       Systeme National d'Information Sanitaire (National Health Information System)
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNFPA      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WHO        World Health Organization
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
P,age No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................i
1.          INTRODUCTION.I
II.         THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR                                 .2
A. Sector Overview                                      .2
B. Past Sector Performance and Key Issues                          .5
C. National Policy and Medium-Term Sector Strategy                      .7
D. The Bank Group's Role and Sector Assistance Strategy .       1
Ill.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT .13
A. Program Objectives .13
B. Summary of Program Description .13
C. Detailed Features of IDA Financing .15
D. Indicators for Program Monitoring and Evaluation .23
E. Program Costs and Financial Sustainability .24
F. Economic Analysis .26
G. Program Sustainability .27
IV.    PROGRAM AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .27
A. Status of Program and Project Preparation .27
B. Participatory Approach .27
C. Management and Coordination of Implementation .28
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .29
E. Gender Impact .30
F. Environmental Impact .31
G. Procurement Arrangements .31
H. Disbursement .35
1. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .37
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .38
A . Benefits.38
B . Risks.38
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, which visited Niger in November 1995 and
AprilMay 1996, respectively. Team members included: Mesdames/Messrs. Denise Vaillancourt (Mission Leader, AF4PH),
Johanne Angers (Operations Analyst, AF4PH), Ernest Messiah (Public Health Specialist, AF4PH), Rougui Diallo (Program
Officer, AF4NI), Regina Amadi (Consultant/Management Specialist), Marie-Paul Fargier (Consultant/Pharmaceutical
Specialist), Raja Jandhyala (Consultant/Social Fund Specialist), Dr. Sanoussi Konate (Consultant/Public Health Specialist),
Aboubacar Magassouba (Consultant/Project Management Specialist), Fernand Piotte (Consultant/Management Specialist), Dr.
Gaston Sorgho (Consultant for the Government of the Netherlands/Public Heatlh Specialist), and Jacques Waechter
(Consultant/Architect). Contribution to the mission's work was also received from WHO, UNICEF, and the EU. Mr. Lawrence
Salmen (ENVSP) serves as Lead Adviser, and Ms. Marie-Odile Waty (AF3PH) and Mr. Willy De Geyndt (ASTPH) serve as
Peer Reviewers.



ANNEXES
1.        Basic Indicators
2.        Major Causes of Morbidity
3.        Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Public Health and
Project Management and Coordination
4.        Estimate of Additional Personnel by Level and by Category
5.        Health Expenditures
6.        Statement of Health Sector Policy
7.        Economic Analysis
8.        Health Sector Performance Indicators
9.        IDA Supervision Plan
10.       Technical Assistance
11.       National, Regional and Overseas Training Plan
12.       Disbursement Schedule
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Niger
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Public Health
Beneficiaries:       Population of Niger
Poverty:             Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:              SDR 27.9 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:      Standard (a variable rate between 0-0.50 percent of the undisbursed credit
balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Onlending Terms:     Not applicable
Financing Plan:      See paragraph 3.35
Net Present Value:    Not applicable. Project design based on cost-effectiveness of sector strategies
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 15443-NIR
Map:                 IBRD No. 27872
Product ID No.:     1999
Vice President      Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director     Theodore Ahlers, AFC13
Technical Manager    Helena Ribe, AFTH3
Staff                Denise Vaillancourt, AFTH3






REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Niger, is a large landlocked country covering an area of 1.27 million km2, and is 600 km away
from the closest seashore. The population estimated at 8.7 million in 1994--about half of which is less
than 15 years old--is growing at about 3.3 percent a year which is above the average for Sub-Saharan
Africa. The human resource base is weak with an adult literacy rate of only 14 percent (9 percent among
women) and a primary school enrollment ratio of less than 30 percent. The slim natural resource base of
degrading arable land is fragile due to low and irregular rainfall and low and declining soil fertility. As a
result, Niger's fast growing population is becoming one of the poorest in the world. Per capita GDP has
declined by more than 52 percent since 1980 reaching US$230 in 1994. The country's social indcators
are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries. Life expectancy at birth of 47 years is one of the lowest
on the continent and infant and child mortality rates are high. Niger has an open economy, with imports
and exports of GNFS exceeding 30 perent of GDP; and strong trade links exist with Nigeria, which
exerts considerable economic influence through long-standing trading and cultural bonds.
1.2    Besides the weak natural resource base, Niger faces additional constraints in the form of high
factor costs, overdependence on uranium, past policies with significant anti-export bias, a relatively
inefficient public sector and a small modern private sector, which is not competitive. The fall of
urnamium prices starting in 1981 has revealed a chronic fiscal imbalance with inadequate revenue
generation and uncontrolled wage bill that have saddled Niger with mounting budget and external
deficits, and a rapidly rising debt service. To face these special challenges, Niger started in FY96 an
adjustment program, supported by the Bank, to restore fiscal equilibria and provide for a minimum
acceptable growth over the long-term. Implementation of the program has been uneven, although
recently, the accompanying policies to the 1994 develuation have yielded some positive results. General
economic activity has improved with 4 percent and 3 percent real GDP growth rates respectively for
1994 and 1995, compared to 1.4 percent in 1993. However, in reaction to a military takeover in late
January 1996, several important donors have suspended budgetary aid causing uncertaincy for the budget
situation and medium-term policy outlook. Now that the July 1996 Presidential election is concluded, it
is expected that assistance to Niger will resume. Government's commitment and action on key reforms,
the rapid resolution of the political transition, and the resumption of donor assistance will determine the
feasibility of the reform program.
1.3   Putting the country back onto a development path will require: the pursuit of the reform agenda;
the diversion of real resources toward private sector development; and actions to restructure public
expenditures towards specific objectives to improve primary school enrollment and to increase basic
primary health coverage. The pursuit of the reform agenda resides in Niger's ability to regain
donors'confidence through an effective transition to democracy. Sustained success would depend on
continued fiscal displine and aid flows, political stabilization, and the increase of investments to rekindle
growth, especially in satisfying the large needs in social infrastructure.



2
II. THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A.    Sector Overview
1. PHN Status: Causes and Consequences
2.1    Propelled by persistently high fertility (TFR = 7.1), Niger's population of 8.7 million is growing
at an exceedingly rapid rate of 3.3 percent annually. Life expectancy is estimated at 47 years, infant
mortality at 123 per thousand live births, child mortality at 223 per thousand, and maternal mortality at
about 700 per 100,000 births. These indicators compare unfavorably with averages for low income
countries (life expectancy of 62 years and infant mortality rate of 73 per thousand live births) and put
Niger among the countries with the highest mortality in the world. Basic indicators for Niger are
presented in Annex 1.
2.2    Niger's poor health status results from the high prevalence of tropical communicable and
parasitic diseases, poor nutrition, high fertility (CPR = 2.3 percent), inadequate preventive and curative
health services (covering less than one third of Niger's population), low access to safe drinking water
and sanitation facilities, low levels of literacy and education -- especially among women -- and pervasive
poverty. The leading causes of mortality for children under the age of 5 years are, in order of
importance: measles, malaria, diarrhea, malnutrition and respiratory disease. The most frequent causes
of morbidity for children in this same age group include respiratory infections, malaria, diarrhea and
afflictions of the eye. Other diseases which severely affect the health of Niger's population include: skin
affections, urinary tract infections, cerebral-spinal meningitis, yellow fever, cholera, schistosomiaisis,
Guinea worm, leprosy and polio. Sexually transmitted diseases are estimated to have a prevalence of
300,000 cases annually, affecting 30 percent of pregnant women in urban areas, and of which 11 percent
are found in people under the age of 15. Rising HIV infection rates and AIDS cases are of increasing
public concern. A Bank-supported survey revealed seroprevalence rates in Niamey of 1.3 percent among
pregnant women, 15.4 percent among prostitutes, 3 percent among truck drivers and 6 percent among
those carrying STDs. With the growth in AIDS/HV, tuberculosis is resurging as a major public health
concern. Annex 2 provides more details and data on the epidemiological profile of Niger and also
presents principal causes of morbidity as reported by health facilities in 1990 and 1991.
2.3    Malnutrition is very prevalent, but often not diagnosed and generally under-reported. The most
pressing of problems include protein energy malnutrition, anemia and vitamin A deficiency.
Approximately 20 percent of newborns have birthweights of less than 2.5 kg. The survey on morbidity
and mortality carried out in 1985 (period of the severe drought) revealed extremely high prevalence
rates: 25 percent of children aged 6-59 months were severely malnourished. A national survey carried
out in 1992 showed that 17 percent of children in this same age group were malnourished. Pockets of
goiter also exist in several regions of the country, notably: Dosso, Tillaberi and Maradi. Among the
factors adversely affecting nutritional status in Niger are: severe climatic conditions which cause
seasonal and sometimes chronic shortages of food crops; inadequate allocation of household income;
poor weaning practices; and pervasive poverty.
2.4    Poor PHN status threatens both the quality of life of Niger's population and prospects for
achieving development goals. With a GDP per capita of US$230 (in 1994), Niger is caught in a vicious
cycle of poverty and ill health, which has persisted despite national efforts to improve economic and
social development. Constant ill health limits the country's ability to maximize returns on investments
in education and training, and to increase its economic productivity. The current population growth rate
implies the doubling of the population size in less than 25 years -- a rate of increase that will further



3
inhibit national efforts to improve the quality of life. Persistently high fertility and mortality have
culminated in an increasingly youthful age structure: around half of the population is under 15 years old.
Not only does this impose a severe burden on an under-employed labor force, it also poses greater
demands on social services, which already are overextended. This will inhibit the country's prospects
for generating adequate capital for economic growth. Furthermore, population growth that outpaces
economic growth will contribute to poor nutrition and health status, which will, in turn, inhibit
productivity and exacerbate poverty.
2. Structure and Organization of the Health System
2.5    Niger's public health system is structured around the administrative subdivisions of the country:
central (or national); internediate (or departmental) and peripheral (composed of three subdivisions:
arrondissement, communal and village levels). Annex 3 presents the current structure of MOPH
administration, public health facilities and management committees that make up the health system,
which are briefly described below.
2.6    Administration. At the central level, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) is composed of the
cabinet of the Ministry, which includes: the chief of Cabinet, an adviser, an inspector general of health,
an inspector general of pharmacies and laboratories and the secretary of the Minister. Attached to the
cabinet are the general secretariat (managed by a secretary general and an assistant secretary general) and
seven central directorates respectively responsible for: Financial Affairs and Materials; Studies and
Planning; Family Health; Pharmacies and Laboratories; Preventive Health and Hygiene; Health
Promotion; and Personnel Training and Management. Central MOPH is responsible for coordinating the
formulation of sector policy and strategies, prepares investment plans and collaborates with the Ministry
of Plan in mobilizing resources from external sources. It is responsible for setting and enforcing patient
care norms and standards. It defines the functions and evaluates the performance of health facilities at
all levels. Central MOH is also responsible for the deployment, supervision and evaluation of all
categories of health personnel who work in the health sector.
2.7    At the regional level, the Departmental Directorate of MOPH (DDS) is responsible for
managing health programs designed to implement the national health sector policy and strategy as
adapted to the particular context of the department. The DDS is responsible for the allocation of
resources within the region and for the provision of support to health facilities in the department and to
central MOPH in planning, management and evaluation of health sector activities. It has primary
responsibility for supervision and coordination of health services (curative, preventive and promotional)
in the department. It monitors the operation of health facilities in order to assure that they function in
line with MOPH directives and nationally set standards for patient care. The DDS coordinates the
preparation of draft budget requests submitted to the MOPH for review and inclusion in the sector budget
proposals. At the arrondissement or commune levels, the chief medical officer supervises primary
health care facilities operating in the arrondissement or medical circumscription.
2.8    Public Services. The pyramid of health services offered in Niger is structured as follows. At the
central level, third level referral services and specialized care are offered through three national
hospitals (two in Niamey and one in Zinder), which also are responsible for research and training. Also
offering third level referral services, tertiary care, research and training are a number of specialty centers
including: the Anti-Leprosy Center; the National Anti-Tuberculosis Center; and the National Family
Health Center. At the regional level, the Departmental Hospital Center (CHD), the second level referral
facility, handles complicated cases, requiring medical specialists, which are referred from the
arrondissement-level medical centers. Among the specialty services offered are surgery, pediatrics and
internal medicine. The CHD is responsible, among other things, for the in-service training of regional



4
clinical staff. Three maternities located in Zinder and Tahoua also provide second level referral services.
At the arrondissement level, primary health care and first referral serves are provided by the medical
center, which generally consists of a dispensary, a small hospitalization unit, a maternity, a maternal and
child health center and a laboratory. At the commune and, in some cases, at the village level, rural
dispensaries, ward dispensaries and health posts provide primary health care services. Village health
teams, generally composed of two traditional birth attendants and two first aid workers. provide very
basic primary services at the village level. These teams cover about 50 percent of Niger's villages.
2.9    Private Services. The small private sector currently operating in Niger consists of the following:
10 doctors' offices; 3 practices offering deliveries, prenatal care and family planning; 2 psychologists'
practices; 3 physiotherapists' practices; 48 health posts; 3 private hospitals (one in Tahoua and 2 in
Agadez); 5 private clinics; 7 social/medical centers of the National Social Security Fund (CNSS); 13
private pharmacies (of which 12 in Niamey and I in Maradi); and 215 drug depots (of which 86 are
cooperatives). As is noted in the policy section of this chapter, Niger is encouraging an expansion in
private sector activity so as to improve coverage and reallocate public funds to underserved areas.
2.10   Other MOPH Structures. Over and above those responsible for administration and service
provision, MOPH also includes structures responsible for training and for carrying out essential functions
related to pharmaceuticals and laboratories. The Medical Circumscription for Training and Research
(CIMEFOR), created in 1991, is situated in the medical circumscription of Doutchi (300 km from
Niamey) and carries out training with a view to: strengthening primary health care delivery; building
management capacity of district health teams; and improving supervision capacity of medical
circumscriptions. Two national schools of public health (ENSP), located in Niamey and Zinder, provide
basic and refresher training in public health and social action and also undertake related research. The
aim of the National Center for Health Development (CNDS), established in 1991 with French assistance,
and attached to ENSP/Niger, is to render health personnel better adapted to implement health policy
reform, with a particular emphasis on community health, management and training. Due to lack of
recurrent financing the CNDS is not functional. The Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of
Niamey has been training medical students since 1974.
2.11   Also under the tutelage of MOPH is the National Office of Pharmaceutical and Chemical
Products (ONPPC), whose functions include: the supply and distribution of drugs and other medical
supplies to health facilities across Niger; the production of selected drugs and medical supplies; and,
through its National Laboratory of Public Health, the quality control of drugs, products of traditional
pharmacopoeia, food commodities, water and other products, such as pesticides and cosmetics.
2.12   Management Committees. At the central level, the National Health Committee is responsible
for all intersectoral coordination and oversight of development questions related to health and health
policy. It is responsible for adopting implementation plans; proposing changes to health policy;
reorienting health programs, if needed; and mobilizing resources needed for implementation. The
Minister of Health is President of this Committee, which meets once annually. The composition of this
Committee is both multi-sectoral and high-level, encompassing the Ministers of all relevant Ministries
(National Defense; Finance and Plan; Foreign Affairs; Agriculture and Livestock; Water and
Enviromnent; National Education; Higher Education; Interior; Communication Youth, Sports and
Culture; Social Development, Population and Women; Civil Service and Labor); a representative of the
Economic and Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly; and the Social Adviser of the Prime
Minister. The membership of the Departmental Technical Committee (COTEDEP) includes all technical
directorates at the departmental level and also is opened to representatives of traditional practitioners
and locally elected officials. The mandate of this committee is intersectoral coordination and oversight
of all development activities in the department. The Arrondissement Technical Committee (COTEAR)



5
and the Communal Technical Committee (COTECOM) are responsible for intersectoral coordination and
oversight of all development activities, respectively, at the arrondissement and commune levels. As at
the departmental level, their membership includes all heads of technical units and locally elected
officials. Over and above these intersectoral committees, whose focus is on all sectors, there currently
exists in Niger no decentralized intersectoral structures that focus on monitoring and evaluation of health
sector policy and practice.
B.    Sector Performance and Key Issues
1. Quality and Access
2.13   Inadequate coverage and quality of health services constitute the main impediments to health
sector performance, The dispersion and rate of growth of the population and the sheer size of the
territory pose daunting challenges to improvements in service coverage and even to needed
improvements in the quality of existing services. Low service quality is attributable to: the lack of
resources available for primary health services; insufficient availability and affordability of essential
drugs; inappropriate diagnosis and treatment of illnesses; low morale, lack of skills and insufficient
numbers of service providers. A beneficiary assessment, undertaken as a part of the final evaluation of
the first IDA investment in the health sector, provides added insight on the low utilization rates in Niger.
Some personnel are perceived to lack respect and consideration for their clients and, occasionally to lack
required qualifications. In addition, drug availability -- a top priority for clients of health centers -- is
unreliable, at best. Weak referral capacities and inadequate support systems (particularly supervision, in-
service training, logistical and maintenance support) constitute yet other factors, which severely
compromise the quality of services. In addition, technical services are organized in an excessively
vertical fashion: particular services are delivered only on particular days of the week. Not only does this
make services extremely user-unfriendly, this practice also makes service delivery inefficient and in
contradiction with the primary health care principle of services integration. Finally, there are some key
primary services, which are neglected, or, at best, ineffectively delivered. Mostly of a preventive and
promotional nature, these include: family planning services (CPR 2.3 percent); vaccinations (17 percent
coverage of targeted immunizable diseases in children 12-23 months [14,4 percent if yellow fever is
added]; and 23,4 percent tetanus coverage of pregnant women); nutrition; and information, education and
communication activities.
2. Sector Management
2.14   The quality and effectiveness of Niger's health system are seriously constrained by weak
management capacity. Roles and responsibilities for management and decision-making are excessively
centralized, particularly with regard to management of resources. Those best placed to make informed
decisions on the optimal use of resources (i.e., those at the more decentralized levels of the system) have
neither the authority, the means, nor the essential skills for carrying out key management functions. In
fact, there is a lack of capacity at all levels of the system to carry out functions which are crucial to the
efficiency and effectiveness of health sector operations, notably: planning, programming and budgeting;
resource mobilization and aid coordination; management of human, physical and financial resources;
training and supervision -- both of a technical and of an administrative nature; quality control; and
monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, roles and responsibilities at each level of the system for
carrying out key management functions have not been clearly defined (although it must be noted that
recent initiatives are addressing this issue).
2.15   Management tools, systems and processes are ambiguous and underutilized, if they exist at all,
thus further inhibiting sector effectiveness. There are neither national norms nor rational criteria for the



6
effective and equitable allocation of sector resources. Budget allocation is based on past patterns without
due consideration of real needs and equity concerns. Management of material and financial resources is
inadequate due to the lack of a performing accounting system at all levels of the system. Systems for the
evaluation of health personnel are inadequate. The setting up of a National Health Information System
(SNIS) with the assistance of USAID has been a major contribution to improved sector management.
Established at all levels of services its objective is the collection and analysis of information, its wide
dissemination and its effective utilization in management and decision-making. It provides information
on the extent of health problems of Niger's population and key information to facilite, at all levels of the
system, the management, evaluation and improvements to program performance. Considerable effort,
however, will be needed to exploit fully the utility of this tool, including: ensuring adequate human
resources for its use; building capacity at DDS and district levels in its use; and encouraging its full
analysis and use in decision-making by managers of health facilities.
2.16   Community Participation and Intersectoral Coordination are basic principles of the primary
health care approach, embraced by Niger's health policy. Neither of these principles are as yet fully
applied, however, although efforts are underway to improve performance in this regard. With the
assistance of the first IDA-financed health project and that of USAID, pilot studies tested community
participation in the financing of primary health services. These studies have demonstrated, as is the case
in other countries, that community participation in the financing of health services and in the
management of collected revenues provides communities with some leverage in their demand for quality
services and incites the health system to be more client oriented and thus improve that quality. UNICEF
(through the application of the Barnako Initiative) and projects financed by other partners have also
applied various notions of community participation in the financing and management of primary health
services. From this experience, the MOPH is now challenged to develop a framework for eliciting and
applying nationwide the participation of communities in the financing and management of primary
health services, in line with their comparative advantages, to render the system more accountable to its
clients. Again, considerable efforts are being initiated by MOPH to this end.
2.17   The National Health Committee and its extensions at the departmental, arrondissement and
commune levels (COTEDEP, COTEAR, COTECOM) (see para. 2.12) have not sufficiently focused on
the review of health policy and its application. This is due primarily to two factors. First, its mandate is
intersectoral and holistic in nature, which does not permit it to provide sufficient time to focus
exclusively on the health sector. Second, even in the application of its intersectoral mandate, the lack of
clear direction on how to focus on the key issues leaves it ill-equipped to carry out its functions
concerning the health sector.   While there is much scope for community participation, intersectoral
coordination and collaboration with other partners (NGOs, private-for-profit sector, academia, etc.),
particularly at the operational level, no organizational structure exists currently that would effectively
elicit and coordinate such partnerships.
2.18   Human Resources. While crucial to achieving national objectives of improving the quality and
coverage of services, many issues surrounding human resources for health severely dampen efforts in
this regard. Human resources for health are inadequate in terms of numbers (ratios of technical staff to
population are far below WHO standards) and distribution (80 percent of technical staff are in and
around Niamey). Their skills are inadequate due to a number of factors. Basic training curricula are not
well adapted to the real demands and responsibilities of service provision at the various levels of the
system in Niger. Neither does in-service training respond to the urgent needs to strengthen service
delivery quality. Health personnel are very demoralized: salaries are not received regularly; the system
for management and evaluation of human resources is excessively centralized and is not designed to
monitor performance and to reward or sanction such performance. The lack of a supervision system
leaves technical staff isolated and does not give them the opportunity for fine-tuning of their skills and



7
positive feedback on their performance. Capacity for manpower planning is very low. Inadequate
systems and skills for human resources management render MOPH hard-pressed to compile the most
basic information on numbers of technical staff currently employed, their levels and allocation across the
country. The human resources implications of the new reforms envisaged under the PDS had not been
assessed, until the World Bank public expenditure review mission (April 1996) initiated this process.
Annex 4 provides information on existing human resources for health and on projected needs for the
next five years in light of planned reforms.
3. Health Financing and Financial Management
2.19   As with most Sub-Saharan African countries, there is an inverted expenditure pyramid in Niger.
Three-quarters of all govemment expenditure on health is for expensive medical care that benefits a
small minority of the population living in urban areas. A high percentage of the poor and those living in
the rural areas are not reached by the health care system. In short, the budgetary allocations are both
inefficient and inequitable. There is scope for improvement and cost savings in most hospitals. This
would enable funds to be reallocated from hospitals to primary health care and from curative to
preventive medicine, a shift that could improve access and health across the country.
2.20   Public expenditures on health have been relatively well protected during the fiscal crisis.
Health's share of total expenditure increased from 4.2 percent in 1980 to 9.1 percent in 1990, dipped a bit
in 1991 and then rose in the next two years. The total amount allocated to health was largely protected
from overall cuts in 1992, and grew considerably through 1994. Per capita spending has increased from
CFA franc 718 (about US$2.50) per inhabitant in 1980, to CFA franc 1,550 (about US$5.50) in 1990, fell
for the next 3 years but was budgeted to rise to CFA franc 2,235 per capita (about US$7.70 before the
devaluation and US$3.85 after) in 1994 (Annex 5, Table 1).
2.21   In the aggregate, households in Niger spend about 17 billion CFA franc in 1993 on health care-
about 5.6 percent of total health spending, with urban households accounting for one quarter of out-of-
pocket payments. There is little difference in the share of household spending devoted to health care by
level of poverty, although this represents considerable variety in the amounts spent-the non-poor spend 4
or 5 times as much as the very poor. Rural households spend twice as large a share of income as urban
households-7.5 percent compared to 4.0 percent-although the CFA franc amounts are very similar for the
poor and very poor, but much higher for the urban non-poor than the rural non-poor (Annex 5,Table 2).
C.    National Policy and Medium-Term Sector Strategy
2.22   Fully aware of the constraints to improved sector performance, the MOPH has prepared a
statement of health sector policy. Presented in Annex 6, the highlights of this policy statement are
summarized in this section (annexes I to 3 of the policy statement can be found in the Documents in
Project File). Three observations on the part of the MOPH provided the rationale for a reorientation in
Niger's national health policy: (a) the dubious results achieved since independence through the
elaboration and application of previous health policies; in essence health status has stagnated, if not
deteriorated, with persistently high infant, child and maternal mortality rates and abysmally low service
coverage; (b) the decrease in resources allocated to the health sector in light of a rapidly growing
population and the national economic crisis; and (c) the inadequate organization of the health system,
which is strongly centralized and which does not elicit participation of communities in sector
management.
2.23   In support of a primary health care policy the Government will emphasize prevention through:
infornation and sensitization of the population; an increase in vaccination coverage; and a reorientation



8
of sector investments in favor of better coverage. A particular emphasis will be placed on improving the
health of mothers and children in the context of an appropriate policy of birth spacing. Drug policy will
aim to provide to the population essential generic drugs of a sufficient quality and at an affordable price
and to improve production capacity and supply/distribution policy. In the context of this policy the most
vulnerable segments of the population will benefit from the organization of national solidarity, whose
purpose will be partial recovery of health costs and equity. Personnel training programs will be
strengthened and be more adapted to real needs. Investment programs for health infrastructure will be
pursued and developed with a view to achieving enhanced decentralization and to bringing services
closer to the population.
2.24   The major objective of this new health policy is to ensure continued improvement in health
status of the population. The strategies through which this will be achieved are as follows: (a) the
decentralization and reorganization of the health system, important components of which will be the
establishment of health districts, the restructuring and reform of the pyramid of services and the
organization of meaningful community participation in the financing and management of services; (b)
the mobilization and improved management of sector resources: financial, human and physical; (c) the
geographical extension of health coverage for improved access to services; a particular emphasis will be
placed on the infrastructure of the health district, which, in principal should cover the majority of health
needs of the population; (d) more effective training of health personnel, with a particular accent on
adapting training curricula to real and evolving demands of their various posts in light of sector reforms;
(e) improvements to service quality, encompassing curative, preventive and promotional services in the
context of primary health care, with a particular emphasis on: developing first-referral capacity in the
district hospital (reformed arrondissement-level medical center); preventive services for mothers and
children; nutrition interventions; family planning services; and water and sanitation activities; (f) control
of priority diseases, with a particular emphasis on STDs/AIDS, and other parasitic and infectious
diseases; immunization-targeted diseases (measles, tetanus, polio, whooping cough, tuberculosis);
treatment and prevention of malaria, diarrhea, and acute respiratory infections; and the eradication of
onchocerciaisis, Guinea worm bilharziose, leprosy and polio; (g) improved availability and management
of essential generic drugs; and (h) strengthening of information, education and communication capacity
to elicit change in health behavior.
2.25   The Government's policy statement also encompasses its health financing policy, which aims to
increase financial resources for health and to define clearly and elicit the fair and equitable financial
participation of: the State (an increase in health's share of the recurrent budget from 5 percent to 10
percent is envisaged by the year 2000); local collectivities (a minimum of 5-8 percent of their recurrent
budget would be allocated to health), the population (through application of the recently passed cost
recovery law); the private sector (through extension of service coverage); and aid donors (particularly
through investments and purchase of medicines).
2.26   In pursuit of policy objectives, the MOPH has prepared a Health Sector Development Plan
(PDS) for the period 1994-2000. Based on a sound analysis of the health problems and issues, and of the
inadequacies of health system  organization and performance, and on lessons learned   from
implementation experience, it outlines specific objectives, strategies and actions that are key to the
successful  application of policy principles and the realization of policy objectives.  The main
components of the PDS are: (a) improve the quality and coverage of basic health services, with a
particular focus on establishing and supporting the distict health system; (b) improve the availability and
affordability of essential generic drugs to all of Niger's population through the restructuring and
strengthening of the pharmaceutical sector; (c) improve sector effectiveness and efficiency through
interventions to strengthen and decentralize strategic sector management and management of resources;
and (d) expand and exploit sector capacity through efforts to appreciate more fully and to utilize more



9
effectively the capacity of various partners active in the health sector, in implementing national and
district programs, including but not limited to: communities, NGOs, private-for-profit sector, civil
society, and academia. This document provides the framework for the development of district plans.
The planning process at the district level is ongoing and results so far have been impressive and
encouraging. The process has been very participatory, including visits by the district teams to all
facilities in the districts, consultations with the population, and involvement of various partners in the
needs assessment and planning activities: district planning teams include health managers and service
providers; a local representative of the Ministry of Plan; representatives of other sectors, representatives
of the population, and, in some cases, representatives of NGOs. In addition, members of particularly
successful district teams have provided technical assistance to other districts; and a number of workshops
for district teams have provided them with the opportunity to seek advice from one another and to
exchange experiences and best practices. District team members have noted that this process has been
enlightening, particularly with regard to the solicitation of client perspectives, and has profoundly
influenced plan content and ownership.
2.27   The quality and detail of the PDS and the ongoing district planning process have provided
sufficient basis for IDA to opt for a SIP approach for its proposed second investment in the health sector.
The PDS appropriately embraces a primary health care approach and its strategy is fully consistent with
cost-effective sector interventions recommended in the 1993 World Development Report and in the
Africa Region Policy Paper on Better Health for Africa. It constitutes a crucial component of Niger's
overall development strategy to alleviate poverty and to develop its human resources base; and it is
consistent with key national objectives, among which are: decentralization, community participation, and
expansion of private sector involvement. Both MOPH and donors fully embrace the SIP principles,
which have been reviewed and endorsed by stakeholders during past missions. It must be qualified,
however, that SIP is not a starting point, but, rather, it is both a process and a medium-term goal to which
MOPH, the Bank and other donors attach great importance. To date, four of the six criteria for a full SIP
approach are satisfied. The PDS (a) is sector-wide in scope; (b) encompasses a coherent sector policy
framework; (c) puts local stakeholders in charge; and (d) emphasizes full use of local capacity and
minimal use of foreign technical assistance. One criterion is partially met: while all donors support the
basic principals and strategy of the PDS, they have not yet channeled their ongoing and programmed
assistance in support of its implementation, due in part to the fact that a multi-year Program, reflecting
the full costs of its implementation, has not yet been produced.  The last criterion, common
implementation arrangements, is not yet in place and constitutes a formidable challenge. As a condition
of project negotiation, and in support of the SIP approach, the Government submitted to IDA a revised
draft statement of health sector policy, including three annexes (filed in the Documents in Project File),
which would specify, respectively: (a) selection criteria for districts to be supported under the
program/project; (b) Government's policy statement on the potential role of the private sector in health;
and (c) a two-year recruitment and redeployment plan for health sector personnel, which would
effectively address the human resources implications of the first two years of Program/project
implementation. The Government has submitted to IDA the final, signed version of this statement,
which was a condition of Board presentation.
2.28   In conjunction with the public expenditure review mission, the appraisal mission worked with
MOPH to initiate the process of transforming the PDS into an initial five-year Program, which would
provide the full costs of implementing the PDS, thus providing the framework for eliciting and managing
more effectively donor aid to nationally-set objectives. The proposed project will include interventions
aimed at institutionalizing this process through capacity building and operational support at the district,
DDS and central levels. The project will support a process of ongoing review and refinement of the
Program through which new and revised district plans and programs will be incorporated and other
elements of the national Program will be revised and refined, as and when more concrete information is



10
secured. This process will also provide a mechanism for ongoing efforts to minimize costs and improve
the effectiveness of the Program. Total Program costs have been provisionally estimated at US$275
million over a five-year period and will be refined routinely as a part of an annual review and revision of
Program implementation and costs (para. 3.27). Results of an economic analysis of the PDS are
summarized in paras. 3.38 and 3.39, and presented in detail in Annex 7.
2. Composition of Donor Assistance to National Policy and Strategy
2.29   Current Activity. Some 30 bilateral, multilateral and non-governmental partners have been
providing assistance to the health sector in Niger. Their combined assistance to the Health Development
Plan for the next five years is estimated at around US$140 million equivalent -- slightly over 50 percent
of estimated Program costs for that period. Given that some donors are approaching the end of their
respective program periods and their new programs of assistance have not yet been approved and
incorporated into MOPH records, this figure is probably underestimated. Routine updating and exchange
of information on external financing of the sector, to be supported under the proposed project will
provide the basis for continuing dialogue with donors on how to further encourage and consolidate a SIP
approach, to which essentially all -- Government and donors alike -- are committed.
2.30   Currently available data show that a considerable portion of aid to the health sector is allocated
to construction/rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities to improve access and quality. Of the 24
partners on which data are readily available, 17 are financing construction/rehabilitation of health
facilities at various levels of the system; 13 support maternal and child health and family planning
activities; 12 support training of health personnel; 7 provide support to the provision of drugs and
vaccines; 6 support management strengthening interventions; 4 support STDs/AIDS activities; and one
or two support the following health programs: diarrhea, malaria, leprosy and IEC. Geographic
subregions benefit from the focused interventions of one or a few donors, causing a balkanization of
assistance, and consequently, added challenges for MOPH to implement its own health policy and
harmonize approaches in this regard.  Among the most important partners (and their areas of
intervention) are: USAID (management strengthening; support to private sector expansion; priority
health programs and services in selected subregions; IEC and family planning); European Union
(pharmaceuticals; significant recurrent budget; health programs and services in selected subregions);
African Development Bank (construction/rehabilitation of health facilities in selected subregions;
services management); UNICEF (health services through the application of the Bamako Initiative in
selected subregions; and nutrition activities); IDA's ongoing Population Project (strengthening of
MCH/FP and reproductive health).
2.31   Prospects. The extent of external support to the health sector is both an asset and a liability. It
has furnished sorely needed assistance to improve and expand Niger's health services, but it has also
coerced MOPH into accepting a project approach, which has at times fragmented efforts, ignored
national priorities and strategies, and created inequities. In reaction to the coup d'etat of January 1996,
virtually all bilateral assistance was suspended. However, now that the July 1996 Presidential election is
concluded, it is expected that development of new projects will resume. Because it is a sound and well
articulated document, the preparation of the PDS has already stimulated enhanced donor coordination.
Virtually all donors endorse the district approach proposed in the PDS and have expressed their
willingness to support its implementation -- some through direct support to districts. Two important
opportunities must be seized by MOPH to mobilize resources in support of the PDS: (1) negotiations of
new or renewed programs of several major donors; and (2) the holding of a Health Sector Round Table,
planned for 1997. The strengthening and decentralization of MOPH capacity for strategic management
and aid coordination is key to enabling MOPH to take advantage and effectively manage these
opportunities. In addition, annual reviews and revisions of Program content, costs and financing, in



I1
which all donors will participate (para. 3.27), should serve as an important vehicle: for reviewing the
availability and relevance of donor financing, for effectively channeling such assistance into a single
Program, and for possibly mobilizing additional aid to the sector.
D.    The Bank Group's Role and Sector Assistance Strategy
1. The First IDA-Funded Health Project (Cr. 1 668-NIR)
2.32   On March 20, 1986 a first Health Project in Niger was approved by the Board in the amount of
SDR 25.1 million (US$27.8 million equivalent). The project was closed in June 1995 and an ICR,
discussed and approved by Bank and Government, will be submitted to the Board in early FY97. Part A
of the project supported health sector adjustment through: (a) the financing of studies aimed at
strengthening financial and operational management, improving basic health services, increasing cost
recovery, improving essential drugs availability and developing population and nutrition policies; and (b)
the funding of proposals for implementing policies emanating from the above-mentioned studies or
operational experience. Part B supported improvements in basic health and family planning services
through activities to: (a) improve facilities and strengthen priority programs; (b) develop health
education and community initiatives in health and nutrition; and (c) develop health manpower.
2.33   The objective of assisting the Government in introducing policy reform in the health sector
within the overall framework of its structural adjustment program was substantially achieved under the
project. Studies aimed at improving sector policy were carried out and were instrumental in the
development and initiation of key reform measures. Most program objectives were also substantially
met. Project investments to upgrade technical skills of service providers and to strengthen infrastructure
of selected health facilities contributed to improvements in the quality and coverage of basic health
services. In addition, a number of priority health programs and services were strengthened through
improved strategic management strengthening and through direct support to implementation activities.
Program objectives for vaccination coverage and training were not fully achieved, however. While this
project is considered to be successful overall, it must be qualified that its success is defined through
process indicators. Persistently high levels of morbidity and mortality and high birth rates demonstrate
that indeed much remains to be done to improve health status in Niger.
2.34   Three categories of factors constrained the Government's capacity to implement the project:
political events; financial constraints; and organizational/managerial constraints. The political events,
which occurred during the life of the project, caused activities in all sectors to slow down and even to
come to a standstill. The high tumover of Health Ministers during the life of the project (8 Ministers in 9
years) caused numerous delays, as each new Minister revisited and questioned project objectives and
imnplementation progress. Financial constraints included lack of counterpart funds and cash flow
problems, and inflation propelled by the 1994 devaluation. Management/organizational capacity to
implement a project of this magnitude and complexity was inadequate. The highly centralized structure
of the MOPH, heavy bureaucratic and administrative procedures and the vertical structure of health
programs left decentralized administration and services with, at best, a very passive role in project
implementation.
2. Population Project (Cr. 2360-NIR)
2.35   Approved by the Board of Executive Directors on April 30, 1992, this project aims at assisting
the Government in implementing an effective national population program, with the primary objective of
accelerating the onset of fertility decline by increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate as rapidly as
possible, reducing maternal mortality, promoting attitudes favoring a reduction in family size norms, and



12
enhancing the capacity of women to effectively participate in socio-economic development. An
important component of this project (about 70 percent of total project cost) is the strengthening of
maternal and child health services through health infrastructure rehabilitation and technical training. The
mid-term review of this project, carried out in April 1996, has recommended that this component be
revised to accommodate fully the reforms and service norms and standards outlined in the PDS. This
decision is supportive of a SIP approach and will ensure coherence in IDA's support program to Niger's
health sector development.
3. Key Lessons Learned
2.36  It was also learned that program/project objectives should be sufficiently modest and based on a
sound knowledge of the existing situation. Objectives should be commensurate with the resources put at
the disposal of program/project staff. Clear targets and indicators should be set at the outset. Key
stakeholders should be identified at the outset and involved in all stages of design and development. A
least cost approach should drive the project design and costing exercise. A rolling planning process
would have introduced both rigor and more flexibility during project implementation. A more holistic
and rigorous assessment of institutional capacity would have modified project design and introduced
more deliberate interventions to strengthen that capacity.
2.37  Inadequate management/institutional capacity is found to be more constraining of good sector
performance than resource availability. More effort must be devoted to develop capacity in management
of resources and in decentralized strategic sector management in order to improve sector effectiveness.
Financial participation of the communities has caused them to be more involved in, and more demanding
of, health service delivery, prompting the public service to strive to be more client oriented. This process
should be nurtured and supported in future operations.
2.38   Concerning project management, the most significant lessons were: the need to provide project
staff with sufficient training in Bank procedures and requirements; the need for improved mechanisms
for coordination and communication; and the need to minimize turnover of program management and
service delivery staff. Implementation experience also revealed the importance of integrating and
"mainstreaming" project activities more fully into MOPH operations, at all levels.
2.39  Implementation experience has demonstrated the importance of health personnel supervision.
Investments in service quality improvements were not fully exploited or consolidated due to a lack of
technical support and follow-up that should have been provided through the implementation of a well
designed supervision program. Likewise, a lack of follow-up and evaluation of training investments left
MOPH incapable of ensuring optimal utilization of newly acquired skills and of assessing the utility of
training to guide future investments in human resources development. The lack of a clear policy on
preventive activities and on health education caused them to receive low attention and priority under the
project, despite the importance attributed to them in project design and documentation. Greater
emphasis on all of these--supervision, training evaluation, policy on prevention and promotion--would
have contributed to enhanced service quality.
2.40  It is encouraging to note that the many of these lessons are reflected already by the Government
in its Health Sector Development Plan, and by the Bank in its Sector Investment Program (SIP)
approach. These lessons have featured prominently in sector dialogue and provided an important basis
for the appraisal of the Government's Program, and of IDA's proposed support to its implementation.



13
4. Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Sector
2.41   IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) emphasizes human resources development as a
priority objective. IDA's continued involvement will help the Government focus on weaknesses in
health sector strategic management and management of resources, including aid coordination for
enhanced sector effectiveness and efficiency. IDA has a comparative advantage in having established a
successful policy dialogue with the Government on sectoral issues -- a dialogue enhanced most recently
through a participatory and extensive ICR process, which was deliberately focused on application of
lessons for improved sector performance. In the spirit of a sector investment approach, IDA support to
PDS implementation will focus on areas of comparative advantage where IDA can best exploit it
leverage, experience and expertise (essential drugs, policy reform, macroeconomic linkages, capacity
building). Also in support of a sector investment approach, IDA financing will be flexible so as to be
constantly responsive to evolving opportunities and constraints throughout the project's life.
5. Future IDA Assistance Strategy
2.42   Key features of the new sector approach, which are guiding the design and implementation of the
proposed IDA intervention include: a coherent sectoral framework that would provide the basis for
eliciting and coordinating the various contributions of donors; Government initiation and ownership of
sector activity and increased partnership activity; a deliberate and systemic approach to capacity
building, management strengthening and institutional development,, which would encompass the (often
untapped) potential roles of all partners in sector development; a better appreciation of client
perspectives and more efforts to respond to the needs and demands of clients; choice of indicators that
would emphasize performance of the system and impact of interventions; the adoption of a learning
approach, which would be pragmatic, rather than theoretical, and which would be subject to ongoing
evaluation and refinement in light of experience; economic and financial viability, encompassing the
importance of establishing priorities, cost-effectiveness of interventions; a full appreciation of recurrent
cost implications and cost containment; and the importance of forging better links and partnerships with
central and other ministries at all levels of the system to understand opportunities and constraints of
decentralization, public finance, civil service reform, etc. (i.e. macroeconomic linkages) and to improve
intersectoral coordination and collaboration to achieve better health. This approach has been thoroughly
discussed and well received by the Government and donors alike.
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.    Program Objectives
3.1    With the overall objective of improving the health and wellbeing of Niger's population, the PDS
seeks to: (a) improve the quality and coverage of basic health services, with a particular focus on
establishing and supporting the district health system; (b) improve the availability and affordability of
essential generic drugs through the restructuring and strengthening of the pharmaceutical sector; and (c)
improve sector effectiveness and efficiency through: (i) interventions to strengthen and decentralize
strategic sector management and management of resources; and (ii) efforts to appreciate more fully and
to utilize more effectively the capacity of various partners active in the health sector in implementing
national and district programs.
B.    Summary of Program Description
3.2    The implementation of national sector policy and strategy will be carried out through the
following components:



14
1.    Improving the Quality and Coverage of Basic Health Services through the
Establishment and Support of a District Health System (US$242 million
equivalent):
3.3    This component will support the restructuring and reform of the pyramid of health services in
support of a district health approach.  In line with newly established norms and standards for
infrastructure, equipment and staffing of reformed health facilities, and with the definition of the
minimum package of services to be offered at each level, this component will (a) upgrade and extend
district services through the rehabilitation and construction/equipment of health infrastructure (b) improve
district-level service quality through: activities aimed at better organization of work at the health facility
level; rational prescription practices; improved integration of services; and improved supervision and in-
service training of health personnel. This component will also support activities to strengthen patient
referral capacity and management of district, departmental and national hospitals. This component also
envisages support to the implementation of cost recovery, including the establishment and application of
tools for the management of drug stocks and collected revenues; training; and the purchase of drug stocks
and other essential medical and laboratory supplies for health facilities. In addition, this component will
strengthen priority programs and services, with a particular emphasis on maternal and child health,
STD/AIDS, tuberculosis and on prevention and promotional activities.
2.    Improving the Supply and Distribution of Essential Generic Drugs (US$7 million
equivalent):
3.4    This component will contribute to the implementation of strategies deftned in the National
Pharmaceutical Master Plan, which aims at improving the availability, quality and affordability of
essential generic drugs to all citizens of Niger. Assistance to the Pharmacy and Laboratory Directorate
(DPhL) and to the Inspectorate General of Pharmacies and Laboratories would include equipment,
supplies, material, technical assistance, training and recurrent financing for: the revision of the legal
framework for pharmaceuticals; establishment of a registration system for drugs; the strengthening of a
pharmaceutical inspection service; and the development of a national pharmaceutical documentation
service. The Program also envisages the implementation of Government's decision to demonopolize and
restructure the ONPPC to permit a dynamic competition in the drug sector and to develop capacity for
procurement of essential generic drugs.
3.     Building Capacity and Forging Partnerships in Support of Health Sector Reform'
(US$27 million equivalent):
3.5    This component will develop national capacity for strategic management and for management of
resources to enable MOPH to realize the objectives of the national and district PDS effectively and
efficiently. Activities will include: establishing the health district; strengthening of management
capacity of the DDS; and realigning central level functions in light of decentralization and its newly
evolved role. The component will also develop and strengthen effective partnerships with various
stakeholders (communities, NGOs, academia, private sector) according to their comparative advantages
in support of PDS goals. To this end it will support and nurture community participation in the
management, financing and implementation of sector activities, and it will encourage and support
district-based innovative activities through contracting arrangements. The component will also support
project management activities.



15
C.     Detailed Features of IDA Financing
I.     Improving the Quality and Coverage of Basic Health Services (US$31.5 million
equivalent)
3.6    The PDS envisages a restructuring of the health pyramid through the creation of health districts
with a view to better accommodate primary health care objectives. Within the health district, rural
dispensaries and some health posts, at the commune and village levels, will be transformed into
integrated health centers (CSI), which will provide primary health care activities through professional
paramedical staff; and arrondissement-level medical centers will be transformed into district hospitals,
comprised of a maternity, surgical facility, general medical facility, a laboratory and a simple
radiological facility.  Departmental hospital centers (CHD) will be strengthened to provide second
referral services to district hospitals, and national hospitals will be strengthened to provide third-level
referral services to CHD.
3.7    This component will support implementation of PDS objectives to improve the quality of basic
health services and to extend coverage in selected districts (departments). Diffa, Maine-Soroa (Diffa),
Goure, Mirriah, Tanout (Zinder) will be supported with IDA financing; and Filingue and Say (Tillaberi)
will be supported through a proposed parallel financing arrangement with the Netherlands. The
following criteria established jointly with MOPH during the preappraisal mission and reviewed during
the appraisal mission guided the choice and prioritization of districts to be supported under this project:
(a) lower than average coverage -- less than 20-25 percent; (b) readiness of district health plans and
participatory nature of the planning process; (c) relatively little or no support from other donors and/or
multiple aid donors supporting district activities, but neither coordinated nor necessarily focused on core
activities contained in district plans; (d) poverty and isolation of the population; and (e) ongoing, but
limited Bank support to districts (under the Population Project, Credit 2360-NIR).
1.1    Strengthening Services at the District Level
3.8    The primary focus of this component will be to support the implementation of district health
plans. While coverage is extremely low and in need of expansion, highest priority is being accorded to
improving the quality of existing services, for which there is much scope. The project will thus upgrade
and maintain the technical skills of service delivery staff through the refinement and application of
diagnostic and treatment protocols for addressing the priority health problems in Niger. It will also
support the development and delivery of refresher and in-service medical/technical training and the
development and implementation of an integrated supervision system, which will monitor, nurture and
support skills development.  Specialized training will also be provided to selected medical and
paramedical staff to enable them to deliver first-referral services at the district hospital effectively.
3.9    The project will also support adherence of districts to the norms and standards recently
established for infrastructure, equipment and staffing of health facilities to enable them to deliver the
minimum package of services defined in the PDS. The project will thus finance the upgrading of
existing basic and first-referral services through the transformation of rural dispensaries and health posts
into integrated health centers (CSI) and of medical centers (CM) into district hospitals. The upgrading
will involve the rehabilitation and/or expansion of existing health infrastructure, the provision of
replacement and incremental medical and technical equipment, furniture, vehicles and other essential
material and supplies, and the provision of safe water supplies. The project will also support extension
of very low coverage in these districts through the construction and full equipment of new integrated
health centers (CSI). The project will also finance the incremental operating costs to keep rehabilitated
and new infrastructure maintained and functioning. Adherence to staffing norms and standards for



16
reformed and new facilities will require the redeployment, and recruitment of additional personnel.
Government counterpart financing will cover these costs under the project.  As a condition of
disbursement for construction and equipment of new health facilities, the Government will provide a
plan, referred to in annex 3 of the statement of health sector policy, satisfactory to IDA, for
redeployment, retraining and recruitement of health sector staff to ensure that upgraded and new health
facilities will be sufficiently staffed and operational in line with MOPH staffing norms. This plan will be
reviewed and agreed with IDA during the annual programming exercise (para. 3.27) and will be in full
respect of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) document, which limits future recruitments (across sectors)
to replacements of voluntary departures, but which accords highest priority to social sectors. The
construction and rehabilitation will be reviewed in light of agreed quotas, and revised downward in the
event that quotas fall short of staffing requirements. Priority will be accorded to staffing of existing,
upgraded services.
3.10   The project will support the implementation of the "minimum package of services" (PMA) to be
delivered through the CSI and district hospital facilities, employing a quality assurance approach.
Encompassing preventive, promotional and curative activities and the effective management and
integration of priority health programs, the PMA focuses primarily on the most cost-effective
interventions aimed at Niger's most vulnerable groups: mothers and children.  Among these
interventions, those of a preventive/promotional nature include: vaccinations; antimalaria prophylaxis
and micronutrients for pregnant women; family planning; malnutrition prevention through growth
surveillance, breastfeeding promotion, weaning practices and nutrition education; prenatal, delivery and
postnatal care and identification and referral of high-risk pregnancies; water, hygiene and sanitation
promotion; health education and information; and school health.  Curative interventions include
management, treatment and proper referral of priority illnesses, such as diarrhoea, acute respiratory
infections, malaria, measles and severe malnutrition and chronic disease (tuberculosis, leprosy, eye
disease). Basic management activities include: strategic management (information, operational research,
monitoring, evaluation, coordination, planning, programming), and management of resources (personnel,
drugs, material, financial resources). Project support to the implementation of the PMA at the CSI and
HID levels includes: purchase of material, equipment, drugs and other essential supplies, and the
financing of various activities, including training, service delivery, information campaigns,
epidemiological surveillance and other relevant studies, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
3.11   Support of Cost Recovery Activities. Pilot studies and projects carried out over the past several
years in the context of IDA's first intervention in the sector have provided the opportunity for much
acquisition of experience and reflection. Following the adoption in July 1995 of the cost recovery law
for basic health services, a number of activities have already been undertaken in support of its successful
application, including: the development of a training program for management of drug stocks and
revenues from cost recovery; training in good prescription practices and effective use of generics; and
studies to assess operating costs of districts, encompassing district hospital and CSIs. An overview of
experience and accomplishments to date can be found in the Documents in Project File. The project will
support the implementation of cost recovery activities in the project area through the provision of initial
drug stocks in all CSI and HD in the project area and in the Diffa CHD and Zinder National Hospital,
and through the establishment and support of management activities. Specifically the project will
provide technical assistance in streamlining management tools for cost recovery, which are, at present,
overly complicated and cumbersome. The project will also provide training of HD and CSI personnel
and of community managers in the utilization of simplified tools for management of drug stocks and for
the collection and management of financial resources generated through cost recovery activities. In
addition it will cover the recurrent costs of management.



17
3.12   Despite the experience accumulated through various pilots, cost recovery is still in an
experimental phase: to date, collected revenues have not been utilized to cover drugs and other operating
costs; and cost recovery activity is virtually non-existant at the HD level. Project support to cost
recovery is thus designed around a learning approach. Financing of studies and monitoring, evaluation
and supervision activities will permit MOPH to apply lessons and continually review and refine cost
recovery approaches. Among the elements of this programn that will be reviewed and refined during the
life of the project are: (a) pricing of drugs and services (during negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it will adopt a pricing mechanism for essential generic drugs in both the public and the
private sectors by March 31, 1998; (b) the clear definition of the costs to be covered by the financial
participation of communities; (c) the clear definition of costs that will continue to be borne by the public
budget (e.g., chronic disease for which treatment is expensive [diabetes, tuberculosis, leprosy,
hypertension]; and financing of essential generic drugs in departmental and national hospitals); (d)
streamlining of management tools for cost recovery; and (e) more effective and quicker reinvestment of
revenues to replenish drug stocks and possibly to cover other costs. MOPH has developed criteria for
determining ability to pay of indigenous clients, which would be applied at the level of the facility with
input from the communities. Those deemed unable to pay would be exempt from service fees.
Monitoring of financial access and consequent utilization rates of vulnerable groups and of the success
rates of direct and indirect cost recovery mechanisms will be carried out under the project. While the
law on cost recovery for basic health services (Law No. 95-014 of July 3, 1995) was passed almost a year
ago, the Government decree outlining how this law will be applied nationwide has not yet been signed.
As a condition of disbursement for drugs, the Government will adopt a decret d'application acceptable
to IDA, for Law No. 95-014 of July 3, 1995, on cost recovery.
1.2   Strengthening Patient Referral Capacity of Hospitals
3.13   The project seeks to strengthen hospital management and patient referral capacity of hospitals
through the execution of studies, which would clearly define the roles of first-, second- and third-level
referral facilities (HD, CHD, and national hospital, respectively), and which would outline procedures for
patient referral between the various levels of services. An additional study would evaluate hospital
management and recommend ways to improve management systems and practices and thus efficiency of
hospitals. In line with the recommendations of these studies, the project would rehabilitate and re-equip
Diffa CHD to enable it to fulfill its role as second-level referral facility. In addition, tools, systems and
training to strengthen hospital management and patient referral capacity would be developed in line with
recommendations of these studies. These would be applied in district hospitals covered under this
project, in Diffa CHD and in the National Hospital of Zinder.
1.3    National Program for STD/AIDS
3.14   The project would support Niger's national program  for sexually-transmitted diseases and
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (STD/AIDS). With a view to strengthening both management
and implementation of program activities, project assistance would include: purchase of equipment,
materials, drugs and other essential supplies, technical assistance in program design and management,
and the financing of program activities, including training, service delivery, patient counseling,
information, education and communication (IEC) activities, epidemiological surveillance and other
relevant studies, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.



18
2.    Improving the Supply and Distribution of Essential Generic Drugs (US$ 3.7 million
equivalent)
3.15   The overall objective of this component is to support MOPH in the implementation of strategies
defined in its National Pharmaceuticals Master Plan. This assistance will contribute to the development
of an essential drugs policy, which will ensure that essential drugs and medical supplies included in
MOPH national list will be: (a) available nationwide; (b) sold at an affordable price in light of the
purchasing power of the population; (c) sufficiently responsive to quality norms; (d) used rationally; and
(e) serve as the basis for the application of the recently adopted cost recovery law for basic services.
Assistance will be delivered through the following two components.
2.1    Strengthening of DPhL and of the Inspectorate General for Pharmacies and
Laboratories
3.16   In order to enable DPhL to guide and oversee the implementation of pharmaceutical policy and
strategy, the Program will support the following capacity building activities: (a) the revision of the legal
framework for pharmaceuticals, which will permit the regulation of all drug-related activities and which
will be included in the Pharmaceutical Chapter of the Public Health Sector Code (during negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that it will introduce into Parliament at the very latest three months
after credit effectiveness a draft pharmaceutical law satisfactory to IDA); (b) the establishment of an
effective registration system for drugs which would, among other things, permit the definition of
selection criteria for brand-name drugs authorized for commercial activity; (c) the strengthening of a
pharmaceutical inspection service, and its gradual decentralization to DDS level; and (d) the
development of a national service of pharmaceutical documentation. Institutional development will be
achieved through (a) short-term specialized technical assistance; (b) provision of equipment, furniture,
office equipment; (c) the provision of an initial stock of essential pharmaceutical documents and
information; (d) financing of fellowships; and (e) financing of essential recurrent costs.
2.2    Restructuring of ONPPC
3.17   In the context of the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) discussed with Government in April 1996
and in line with technical discussions carried out through sector dialogue, the Government has
committed itself to the demonopolization and restructuring of ONPPC. A plan of action for the
demonopolisation and restructuring was discussed and agreed and is reflected in the sector policy
framework paper agreed between the Bank and Government. An important principal behind the
restructuring of ONPPC is the revision of its legal status in line with its mission. ONPPC should be a
national enterprise with a social and public health vocation and a non-profit status. While under the
technical responsibility of MOPH, it would have total financial and managerial autonomy. During
negotiations, Government gave assurances that it would, at the very latest three months after credit
effectiveness, introduce into Parliament a law that would demonopolize ONPPC. The restructuring of
ONPPC must rest on the principal of separate accounting and financial statements for each of the
discrete functions: quality control and laboratory work; production; and acquisition, distribution and
retailing. Only when this principal is satisfied, can decisions to privatize and to separate one or more of
these functions from others be made. During negotiations, Government gave assurances that a new legal
status for ONPPC's essential drugs procurement unit, satisfactory to IDA, will be adopted no later than
December 31, 1997. The new legal status will ensure that this unit will fulfill a social mission (the
provision of essential generic drugs to all of Niger's population at the lowest possible cost) and that it
will be accorded sufficient managerial and financial autonomy tu run effectively and in accordance with
standard business practices. During negotiations, Government gave assurances that a new draft legal
status for the remaining functions of ONPPC (quality control and laboratory, production, and acquisition,



19
distribution and retailing ) will be presented and reviewed at the time of the mid-term review (before
end-1999) and final versions, satisfactory to IDA, will be adopted no later than June 30, 2000.
3.18   Within the overall framework of the restructuring on ONPPC and with support from the EU, the
following Program activities are envisaged: (a) strengthening of ONPPCs general accounting and
establishing of an analytical accounting system of the different functional units of ONPPC to provide a
clear picture of the financial situation of each; (b) negotiations and activities for resolving the problem of
debts and credits, in light of financial situations of various functions; (c) extending the services of the
essential drugs procurement unit of ONPPC to all interested clients, including private sector; (d)
establishment of a simple computerized management system for stock management, billing, monitoring
of consumption, procurement management and forecasting; (e) strengthening procurement capacity for
essential generic drugs; (f) restructuring of the unit responsible for purchase of specialty drugs; (g)
strengthening of stock management procedures; (h) strengthening of financial management; (i)
improvements to quality assurance activities; (j) study of channels of distribution, logistics and retailing
of state pharmacies and their eventual transformation into autonomous regional or district depots.
Activities envisaged to demonopolize ONPPC will be included in the Project Operational Manual.
3.19   Given its importance as a Government strategy, and given the political and financial sensitivities
associated with the pharmaceutical sector in Africa, a close, participatory and well coordinated approach
to the monitoring and evaluation of this Program component is strongly recommended. The following
activities will be closely monitored: (a) for DPhL: elaboration of legal framework for pharmaceuticals;
dissemination and application of a revised list of essential generic drugs; functioning drug registration
system; official and operational commission on drugs; and (b) for ONPPC: semiannual audit of accounts
and management procedures; production costs of essential generic drugs in line with international
averages; operating costs and margins applied to production costs; good management procedures; good
logistics; good quality of essential generic drugs; constant availability of essential generic drugs; selling
prices of essential generic drugs at health facilities.
3.     Building Capacity and Forging Partnerships in Support of Health
Sector Reform (US$4.8 million equivalent)
3.20   The fulfillment of goals and objectives laid out in the PDS is surely a challenge and will require
considerable effort to mobilize and use most effectively national capacity in this regard. Indeed, the
most far-reaching and radical reforms included in the PDS are those aimed at strengthening the capacity
and the efficiency of the public sector through the streamlining and decentralization of key management
functions and those aimed at expanding sector capacity through the recognition and utilization of the
potential capacity of other, non-public national partners, including communities, NGOs, academia, and
the private-for-profit sector, to name only a few. This is a radical departure from current practice and
could have far-reaching effects.   Decentralization  and participation, together, could  reorient
accountabilities in a fundamental way. Districts (the operational/services level), rather than central
MOPH, will be the focal point of health activity, and their needs should drive the setting of priorities, the
work programs and mandates of the DDS and central levels, and the mobilization, coordination and
allocation of resources to the sector. Community involvement in the financing and management of
health sector activity will render the health system much more accountable to the clients it is meant to
serve. Effective recognition and use of the potential of other national partners in health service delivery,
support services and management could expand sector capacity significantly without exerting additional
pressure on an already overextended public sector. The project will support the following activities to
these ends.



20
3.1    Strengthening and Decentralization of Key Management Functions
3.21   The general objective of this component is to develop national capacity for strategic sector
management and for management of resources at all levels of MOPH administration to enable it to
realize the objectives of the national and district PDS in an effective and efficient manner. Given the
decentralization strategy embraced by the PDS -- most particularly the establishment of health districts --
a primary focus will be placed on the establishment and strengthening of the district health office (and
the district health team). Program interventions at the DDS and central levels will be oriented around the
objective of supporting and providing technical backstopping to district health teams. The real challenge
of the decentralization reform will be to reorient incentives and accountabilities so that higher levels of
MOPH administration will be serving and supporting the more peripheral levels rather the reverse.
Another important emphasis of this component is the nurturing and support of the SIP approach, which
should be institutionalized within MOPH at all levels.
3.22   Establishment of Health Districts.  The Government gave assurances that no later than 12
months after credit effectiveness, the project will establish district health offices and district health teams
in the project area. It will provide technical assistance and training to establish district health teams and
to develop their skills in technical and managerial training, supervision and quality control,
administration, team building, strategic sector management (planning, programming, operational
research, monitoring and evaluation), and management of human and financial resources. In addition,
the project will support the development and delivery of training modules for health personnel working
in district facilities to develop their skills in the organization and management of services, and in the
management of resources (physical, human and financial). The project will also provide office and
technical equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials for the district offices, and it will finance operating
costs of health district management, including, inter alia: communications, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation activities and periodic planning and programming activities. In support of the SIP approach,
during negotiations, Government provided assurances that, as soon as district health teams have been
established, districts will undertake, on a quarterly basis, participatory evaluations of performance in
implementing district plans, with a view to reviewing and refining programs, financing plans and budget
allocations in light of experience and accomplishments. An important objective of these evaluation
mettings will be the identification and resolution of constraints to program performance. These
evaluations will be submitted to the DDS, which will consolidate them at the departmental level.
3.23   Strengthening of DDS Capacity. The project will finance technical assistance, workshops and
training to enable the DDS of Diffa, Tillaberi and Zinder to redefine and effectively fulfill their evolving
roles in light of sector reforms laid out in the PDS. A particular emphasis will be given to the
development of DDS skills in technical backstopping of districts through the design and implementation
of training and supervision protocols, team building, administration, strategic sector management and
management of resources. The project will also provide DDS with necessary incremental equipment,
vehicles, supplies and materials to enable them to carry out their functions. In addition, incremental
operating costs of the DDS will be supported under the project, including: communications, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation and periodic planning and programming activities. In line with the SIP
approach, during negotiations Government provided assurances that participatory evaluations of
departmental performance in implementing the PDS (including the collection, consolidation and analysis
of district plans within a department) will be carried out on a semi-annual basis. On the basis of program
performance and lessons learned, programs, financing plans and budget allocations will be reviewed and
revised, and submitted to MOPH central level for review and consolidation.
3.24   Strengthening of Central MOPH Capacity.  The project will finance technical assistance,
workshops and other activities which would culminate in the restructuring of central MOPH to enable it



21
to fulfill more effectively and efficiently its evolving role in light of sector reforms. A particular
emphasis will be placed on the integration of health programs and services in support of the district
health system and in line with the "minimum package of activities" (PMA). A first and crucial activity
will be the development of an institutional/organizational framework that would clearly define roles and
responsibilities at all levels of the system for strategic sector management. This would also include the
preparation/revision of post descriptions, ensuring the coherence and complementarity among the
functions and responsibilities carried out by the various actors in the system at each level, and clarifying
the interrelationships of these roles. The project would also support the definition and establishment of
systems, processes, procedures and management tools that would guide and facilitate the smooth and
accurate implementation of these functions.  The preparation of operational manuals would be
undertaken in this regard.
3.25   An important contribution to building MOPH capacity in strategic sector management will be
project activities to strengthen and consolidate the various information systems currently available in
MOPH. With project assistance various information systems will be linked so that they can be used in
an interactive manner to facilitate evaluation and decision-making. Among the information systems to
be linked are: MIS, health information system, personnel management system, and infrastructure
management system.  In addition, the project will support the strengthening of the electronic
communications system within central MOPH and between the various levels of decentralization.
Through technical assistance and training, the project will also strengthen MOPH capacity for
management of human and financial resources. In order to support central MOPH in carrying out its new
functions, the project will provide necessary equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials and it will
finance incremental operating costs, including communications, supervision, monitoring and evaluation,
and periodic planning and programming activities.
3.26   The project would also develop human resources for carrying out the strategic management
functions, in terms of numbers, skills mix and allocation of staff. Under the Program, additional
personnel would be assigned and/or existing staff would be reallocated. Long-term and short-term
training in various elements of strategic management (public health, planning/programming, monitoring
and evaluation) would also be provided. In addition, in-service training curricula will be developed and
implemented: training of trainers would be under taken to develop and ultimately implement cascade
training. Given the importance of strategic management at the district and DDS levels, the design and
implementation of a viable supervision system for guiding and facilitating strategic sector management
will also constitute an important project activity. In addition, the project would finance the provision of
furniture, equipment, vehicles, as well as the recurrent costs to support the implementation of these
functions.
3.27   Annual Reviews. To encourage and guide sound strategic management, agreement has been
reached during negotiations that MOPH would convene annual meetings with all aid donors and NGOs
active or interested in Niger's health sector to coordinate assistance, exchange experiences and
harmonize their various approaches to health sector development in different regions of the country and
at different levels of the health system. These meetings would draw on the participation and input of the
DDS and health districts on the basis of their respective plans and experiences. Agreement has also been
reached that the MOPH would undertake annual reviews of Program and project performance in the
implementation of the PDS, and revision of the following year's plan in light of experience gained,
lessons learned and emerging opportunities and constraints. An important objective of these reviews, to
which would be attended by MFP, donors, health service providers, representatives of the population and
other key stakeholders, is the identification and resolution of constraints to program performance.
Specifically, the Government would submit to IDA for its review, and to other donors, at least four
weeks prior to the Annual Review of Program Performance (to occur no later than April 30 of each year),



22
an annual sector performance report, to be prepared by district health teams and consolidated at DDS and
central levels, on the progress made in the implementation of the Program. This report would focus on
key performance indicators (summarized in para. 3.33 and shown in detail in Annex 8) and would
highlight successes and constraints in achieving Program objectives. It would also assess compliance
with financial, audit and other covenants relating to the project. Drawing on lessons of the previous
year's experience, this report would also include the following forward-looking elements: (a) the updated
three-year rolling development plan for the health sector; (b) Government's salary and non-salary
recurrent budget allocations to the health sector for the following fiscal year; (c) an action plan for the
implementation of the Program and the project for the forthcoming FY, including a proposed budget and
financing plan and a detailed staffing plan for facilities to be built, rehabilitated or upgraded and
proposing solutions to implementation problems and constraints; and (d) an assessment of the continued
relevance of the five districts in the project area for IDA intervention. This report would be discussed
and reviewed on the occasion of the Annual Review and its forward-looking elements finalized in light
of discussions and conclusions and in consideration of IDA's opinion. Following the Annual Reviews
the Government would implement these elements and would take any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy constraints identified during the Review or any other measures to facilitate
achievement of Program objectives.
3.2    Development and Strengthening of Partnerships in Health
3.28   In light of the intersectoral and multidisciplinary nature of the health sector and in support of the
decentralization and integration strategies embraced by the PDS, the objective of this component is to
mobilize and more fully utilize the capacity of the various stakeholders and beneficiaries in the
elaboration, implementation, management and evaluation of national health policy and practice. Such
capacity is currently underappreciated, underutilized and ill coordinated, despite the need to supplement
the capacity and resources of MOPH to implement the PDS. This component will thus seek to exploit
more fully the capacities and potential contributions of the various partners in health (NGOs,
communities, civil society, academia, etc.) to permit them (a) to contribute to PDS implementation in
line with their comparative advantages, and (b) to combine and coordinate more effectively their efforts
and resources (human, financial, physical) in support of the implementation of national and district plans.
3.29   Community Participation. Various approaches are being tried in Niger to increase community
participation. Within the framework of myriad ongoing projects and initiatives, communities have
contributed to health sector activity through labor and in-kind inputs and through financial inputs in the
context of cost recovery pilots. Most recently, communities have participated in a meaningful way in the
elaboration of district health plans, including the analysis of sector issues and constraints, and the
planning and programming of priority interventions. This participation has prompted the population to
be more demanding of service quality and to insist on more decision-making power, and has culminated
in a deep-rooted ownership of district health plans. Currently all actors involved in sector reform are
searching for mechanisms for community participation. The PDS tries to address the issue through
creation of structures and committees at the district level and below. However, it is not clear whether
these structures and committees will truly represent the populations they are meant to serve.
3.30   Strengthening of community participation in health will thus be undertaken through a learning
approach. The project will support a number of activities to permit MOPH and other national partners to
appreciate and benefit from relevant experience in the subregion and, as well, to deepen and enhance its
own national experience in this regard. It will finance study tours to Mali and Benin, and possibly
additional African countries, which have considerable experience in health sector community
participation. The project will also support the implementation, review and finetuning of community
participation mechanisms, as laid out in the PDS. Specifically, it will finance: training of health



23
personnel and committee members in management and participatory techniques; studies and operational
research; and exchanges of experience among the various districts covered under the project. In
addition, the beneficiary assessments, to be carried out at the project's outset and at the time of the mid-
term review (para. 4.5), will gather information and insight on what role the population feels it should
play in the strategic management and implementation of health sector activity. During negotiations,
assurances was received from Government that, by the time of the mid-term review, it will have carried
out an evaluation of the community participation experience and prepared a draft legal framework for
community participation in health satisfactory to IDA. This evaluation and draft legal framework would
be discussed and reviewed at the mid-term review and the legal framework submitted to Parliament for
its adoption after the mid-term review workshop.
3.31   Community Initiatives through Contracting. With a view to expanding capacity of district health
personnel and to achieving a fuller appreciation and utilization of non-public sector capacity, the project
will finance small contracts between the districts and various partners in the communities. These
contracts would be the vehicle for implementation of crucial, cost-effective elements of the district PDS,
which tend to be neglected (in Niger and elsewhere in the subregion), and for which public sector health
personnel do not necessarily have a comparative advantage. Contracts would be small-scale and oriented
around preventive and health promotional activities, with a particular focus on health problems and
issues of Niger's two most vulnerable groups: mothers and children. They also may have a public health
orientation (water, hygiene, santiation, school health...) or they may target essential support activities to
health operations (maintenance, operational research). Partners eligible for entering into small contracts
with the health district would include: community- or district-based groups, organizations, associations
and NGOs, local/national training, consulting and research institutions, and qualified individuals (such as
students of public health, traditional practitioners, trained service providers not employed by the public
sector, and village health workers). Procedures for the review and award of contracts by the districts, for
disbursement against contracts by the DDS, and for supervision and verification of contract
implementation by both the districts and the DDS will be spelled out in the Project Operational Manual.
As this is a new initiative, the effectiveness and outcome of small-scale district contracting will be
evaluated at the time of the mid-term review and possibly extended to other districts beyond those five
initially covered under the project, if proven to be successful. Indicators to evaluate the pilot phase of
this initiative were discussed and reviewed during negotiations and were included in a supplemental
letter.
3.3    Project Management and Coordination
3.32   To support and assist MOPH  in carrying out the various functions inherent to project
management and coordination and responsive to a sector investment approach, the MOPH at all levels
(central, departmental and district) would be strengthened through the provision of technical assistance,
training, equipment and materials, and logistical inputs to facilitate monitoring and evalutation and
supervision functions. Further details on the project management and coordination structure are found in
Chapter IV.
D.    Indicators for Program Monitoring and Evaluation
3.33   In line with Bank guidelines, indicators were reviewed and discussed with MOPH.  Six
indicators for implementation (input and output) and six for outcome/impact have been selected jointly
with Government. The implementation indicators are: number of facilities rehabilitated/constructed and
equipped; number of service delivery staff trained; availability in health facilities of drugs included in
Government's official essential generic drugs list, frequency of orders for stock replenishment, and
number and duration of ruptures in essential drugs stocks; number of district health teams trained and



24
functioning; number of planning/programming meetings taking place at the district, DDS and central
levels; and number of small-scale service contracts awarded by the districts to various local partners.
The outcome/impact indicators are: health coverage, utilization rates, annual recurrent expenditures of
district health facilities vs. real annual costs, planned vs. actual financial contributions of key financiers
(communities through cost recovery, local collectivities, and central budget), transformation of the PDS
into a multi-year Program, which should serve as an instrument for strategic sector management and aid
coordination (number of annual action plans prepared), and permanent and meaningful participation by
the population in strategic sector management (number of functioning community management
committees). These indicators, presented in Annex 8, were deemed appropriate, given the reform nature
of the Program. In addition to these, however, the health status of the population in the five districts to be
covered under the project and their own evaluation of health service quality will be tracked, respectively,
through three epidemiological surveys and three beneficiary assessments to be carried out at the project's
outset, mid-term, and completion. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements are discussed in para. 4.5.
E.       Program  Costs and Financing and Financial Sustainability
3.34    Program  Costs. The total cost of PDS implementation over the next five years is estimated at
about US$275 million equivalent, of which US$135million equivalent is for investment and US$140
million equivalent is for recurrent costs. Over 75 percent of total costs will support district (basic and
first-referral) health services. Table 3.1 summarizes the Program costs by component and sources of
financing, and Table 3.2 summarizes it by expenditure category and sources of financing. Annex 7
provides financing and costing details and basic assumptions for calculating the costs.
Table 3.1: Estimated Program Costs by Components and by Sources of Financing
(US$ Million, including contingencies)
OTHER  LOCAL  COMMU-
Govt.    IDA   DONORS ADMIN. NITY    TOTAL % OF
COMPONENT                        Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount TOTAL
A. IMPROVING QUALITY AND COVERAGE OF
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
l.Strengthening Swviceasat DistrictLevel                 88.9    25.5    82.8    5.7    10.4   213.3   77.4
2. Strengthening PatientReferral Capacity of Hospitals   7.4    4.3    10.2        -            21.9    7.9
3. National Progran fer STD/AIDS                          1.7    1.7       -       -       -     3.4    1.2
4. National Program for Tuberculows Control               1.2      -      2.0              -     3.2    1.1
Subtotal IMPROVING QUALITY AND COVERAGE OF                99.2    31.5    95.0     5.7    10.4   241.7   87.7
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
B. IMPROVING SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS
1. Strengthening ofDPhL                                   1.1    0.2          1-           -      .3    0.5
2. Restructuring ofONPPC                                  2.1     35       -       -   _         56      2.0
Subtotal IMPROVING SUPPLY AND DISTRIB. OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS  3.2     3.7       -                     6.9    2.5
C. BUILDING CAPACITY & FORGING PARTNERSHIPS IN SUPPORT
OF HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
I. Strengthening and Decentralization of Key Management Functions  10.0    1.4    8.0  -   -    19.4    7.0
2. Developnent and Strengthening of Partnerships in Health  2.0    1.8     -       -       -     3.8    1.4
3. Project Management and Coordination                    2.0     1.6      -       -             3.7    1.3
Subtotal BUILDING CAPACITY AND FORGING PARTNERSHIPS        14.0    4.8    8.0                -    26.9    9.8
TOTAL                                                   116.4    40.0   103.0    5.7    10.4   275.5   100.0



25
Table 3.2: Estimated Program Costs by Expenditure Category and by Sources of Financing
(US$ Million, including contingencies)
OTHER  LOCAL  COMMU-
Govt.   IDA   DONORS ADMIN. NITY           Total       For.
Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount   %          Exch.   Local
1. Investment Costs
Civil Works                           7.8    15.0    53.1     3.1      -    79.0   28.7   45.3   33.3
Goods                                  -      5.7    19.8      -       -    25.5    9.2   22.7    2.3
Training                               -      2.8     8.5      -       -     11.3    4.1     1.1    10.2
Studies,Research and Surveys           -      1.3    3.3       -       -      4.5    1.6      -     4.5
Consulting Services                    -      3.5    11.4      -             14.9    5.4     3.5    11.4
Total Investment Costs                  7.8    28.3    96.0    3.1            135.2   49.1   72.6   62.5
11. Recurrent Cosb
StaffSalaries (incl. contractual)    61.3    0.1       -      0.5            61.9   22.5      -    61.9
Essential Drugs and Labs. Supplies    3.0    8.5      5.0      -    10.4    26.2    9.5   26.2
Supervision Cost                     12.2    0.5      0.5      -       -    13.2    4.8       -    13.2
Maintenance and Operating Costs      32.0    2.6      1.5    2.1       -    39.0   14.1       -    39.0
TotalRecurrentCosts                   108.6    11.7    7.0    2.6    10.4   140.4   50.9   26.2   114.1
TOTAL                              116.4    40.0   103.0    5.7    10.4   275.5  100.0   93.9  176.6
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
3.35    Program  Financing  Government is expected to contribute US$116.4 million equivalent over
the program period, of which US$7.8 million for investments and US$108.6 million for recurrent costs.
Local administrative budgets (collectivites locales) will contribute some US$5.7 million for investment
(US$3.1 million equivalent) and recurrent (US$2.6 million equivalent) costs. In addition, revenues
generated from cost recovery are estimated to finance some US$10.4 million equivalent of recurrent drug
costs. These estimates are based on MOPH's health financing policy, as proposed in the PDS (and
supported in the PFP), which specifies that: health's share of the State recurrent budget should increase
from its current (1996) level of 6.6 percent to 10 percent by the year 2000; that a minimum of 5-8
percent of local administrative budgets should be allocated to health; and that revenues generated from
cost recovery should eventually cover 100 percent of drug costs at the primary level, and a progressively
smaller percentage for the higher levels of care. IDA will contribute US$40.0 million equivalent, and the
balance of PDS costs (US$103.0 million equivalent) will be covered by the various external partners
active in the sector (multilateral and bilateral agencies and NGOs), as laid out in their program
commitments. MOPH's challenge will be to manage effectively external aid coming into the sector and
to channel it directly to cover activities included in the PDS. Given the quality and appropriateness of
the PDS document, donors have expressed willingness to contribute to its objectives and are keen to
achieve better coordination in the sector. Annual review meetings of Program costs and financing (para.
3.27), and a possible Donors' Round Table in 1997 will be important vehicles for this work.
3.36    Financial Sustainability. By the end of the initial five-year period, recurrent costs of health
system functioning (encompassing already existing and incremental recurrent costs) will amount to about
US$33 million equivalent annually. National contributions to annual recurrent costs by the end of the
project are projected to exceed this amount, encompassing the financial participation of Government
(US$24.8 million equivalent), local administrative budgets (US$0.8 million equivalent) and revenues
generated from cost recovery (US$5.4 million equivalent). These estimates, detailed in Annex 7,
Appendix 1, are based on the assumption that the projected financial contributions of the various
national partners, as laid out in the PDS will, in fact, be realized. This objective is feasible but at the
same time, a challenge, and will be monitored very closely over the Program period. It must be noted
that, given Niger's very precarious economic and financial situation, implementation of an eventual
second phase of the PDS will require the support of external partners over the medium-term. The health



26
financing policy laid out in the PDS is cognizant of this very real constraint and takes into account the
programmed contributions of external partners, including NGOs, who have contributed, and will
continue to contribute both to investment and recurrent costs.
3.37   These estimates are tentative, at best, and provide only a basis for continued monitoring and
refinement in light of experience. The public expenditure review and health missions provided an
opportunity to collect information and establish a data base on costs and financing of the PDS. This
work represents an important, albeit initial, step. A crucial next step will be the ongoing review and
refinement of program costs, objectives and financing plans in light of experience. The PDS, with
assistance from the proposed project, will strengthen MOPH capacity in programming, budgeting and
financial planning, monitoring and evaluation to this end. An important instrument in monitoring and
evaluating program sustainability will be the annual reviews of program performance, which will review
Program costs and financing (actual and projections) and pace of implementation. Depending on
Program experience and perspectives for the future any one or several of these variables may well be
revised to ensure the feasibility and financial sustainability of Program content.
F.     Economic Analysis
3.38   The 1993 World Development Report (WDR) evaluated the cost effectiveness of various health
interventions and found two clusters of selected interventions to be highly cost effective: (a) public
health interventions (immunizations, family planning, improvements to household environment, AIDS
prevention, and school-based services); and (b) clinical services (pregnancy related care, family
planning, STD prevention and control, control of tuberculosis, and prevention and treatment of diseases,
which most severely affect adult, infant and child mortality: acute respiratory infections, measles,
malaria and acute malnutrition). Africa region-specific economic analysis carried out in the context of
Better Health for Africa (BHA) has revealed that these cost-effective interventions provided in the form
of a minimum package of services, through a well-functioning district system with proper referral
capacity, should enable African countries to manage more than 90 percent of health care demands; and
reduce the burden of disease by 30 percent.
3.39    An economic analysis of the PDS, with input from the public expenditure review mission,
evaluated the appropriateness, affordability, feasibility and cost-effectiveness of reforms, approaches and
activities envisaged in the government's Program document. Results of this analysis show that Niger's
PDS is perfectly in line with recommendations of WDR  '93 and with BHA for achieving cost
effectiveness, both through its choice of interventions and through its proposed mode of delivery. Both
the Bank and MOPH acknowledged, however, that national and district PDS goals and objectives are
very ambitious, given a number of constraints, including: timeframe, management and absorptive
capacity, human resources implications, recurrent financing implications and political instability. An
important lesson learned from the implementation of the first IDA-financed health project was the need
to set goals and objectives that are cognizant of and commensurate with implementation constraints.
This economic analysis thus aimed to provide concrete guidance on where and how the risks and
constraints would be mitigated, the costs of implementing the PDS might be minimized, and how the
effectiveness of proposed interventions could be maximized, and to provide guidance on how to set
priorities and phase interventions, in light of these constraints. The results of this analysis have served to
refine Program design and interventions (including IDA's planned support to Program implementation),
and also should serve to guide the transformation of the national and district PDS into a detailed working
Program. The findings and recommendations of the economic analysis are fully subscribed to by MOPH
and are presented in Annex 7.



27
G.     Program Sustainability
3.40   More efficient management of human, material and financial resources will enable the sector to
achieve a greater measure of sustained growth. Profits generated from the sale of drugs would be used
by communities to reconstitute stocks. Cost recovery for drugs would also enable the GON to divert
funding from drug purchase to essential operation and maintenance expenditures. The project will
facilitate integration of specific prevention programs for the control of endemic diseases into the
mainstream of primary health care contributing to a more efficient use of limited resources. Clearer
demarcation of primary health care and referral services and the shifting of expenditures from the more
costly clinical care toward basic health care and preventive medicine should reduce use of higher tier
facilities for services that could be provided at a lesser cost at lower levels. In this instance as well, cost
effectiveness gains should be made.  Improved quality of health service through training and
redeployment of personnel to primary health care facilities, and availability of drugs at affordable prices
should stimulate increased and more effective utilization of health services. Revision of MOPH policy
and strategy for human resources and revision of MOPH health financing policy in light of cost recovery
should also contribute to the increased sustainability of implementing the national and district-level PDS.
Decentralized and participatory strategic management to be supported and nurtured under this project
should result in increased ownership of the PDS by the various stakeholders -- perhaps the most
important contributing factor of all to long-term sustainability of interventions. MOPH commitment to
achieving a greater client orientation is reflected in its intention to carry out periodic beneficiary
assessments. The beneficiary assessment, itself, is a key tool for enhancing project sustainability in that
it provides periodic feedback on the degree of client identification and, ultimately, ownership of sector
reform initiatives. The institutionalization of the beneficiary assessment approach is a major aspect of
management reform envisaged in the Program and underscores an effort on the part of MOPH to
improve on an ongoing basis the quality of its operations.
IV. PROGRAM AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.     Status of Program and Project Preparation
4.1    The proposed project was prepared in response to a request from the MOPH to IDA to assist in
supporting the implementation of the main reforms contained in the PDS and in strengthening MOPH
capacity for strategic sector management and aid coordination. The PDS and district plans (about 17 to
date) have been prepared by the MOPH in collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders, including
other ministries, private sector health care providers and non-governmental organization (NGOs),
community representatives, and multilateral agencies, including USAID, EU, WHO, AfDB, UNICEF,
UNFPA and IDA. A Japanese Grant has financed most of the preparation activities, particularly
consultancies, studies and support to the district planning process. Additional funding assistance is
provided through a project preparation facility (PPF) to cover for the costs of preparation and start-up
activities to be carried out prior to credit effectiveness. These activities consist primarily of studies to
collect baseline data (epidemiological survey and beneficiary assessment) in the project area, technical
assistance, workshops and training to establish district health teams, to strengthen DDS capacity to
prepare the ground for decentralization of key management functions and also to establish project
management and coordination in the MOPH.
B.     Participatory Approach
4.2    MOPH's commitment to decentralized, participatory planning is evident in the ongoing district
planning exercise through which key stakeholders at the district level, including representatives of the
population, are initiating a strategic management process within the framework of the PDS. Government



28
preparation of the PDS and Bank missions have been carried out through extensive field visits, and
workshops and discussions with a spectrum of stakeholders both in and outside of Niamey. In addition
to efforts to institutionalize involvement of beneficiaries and other stakeholders, a baseline beneficiary
assessment will be carried out in the project zone at the outset and will be repeated periodically during
the project life -- and eventually extended to all districts. In addition, the design of this project draws
heavily on the outcome of the ICR for the IDA's first health intervention, which sought and reflected a
spectrum of (often varied) perspectives, including those of: communities, service providers, MOH
technical and managerial staff at the central and departmental levels, the unions and an independent
evaluator.
C.     Management and Coordination of Implementation
4.3   In support of the decentralization strategy embraced by the PDS and in light of lessons learned
under IDA's first investment in the sector, Program and project management will be fully integrated into
the MOPH structure so that the technical directorates at the center, as well as the decentralized levels of
MOPH (DDS and districts) will be given full and direct responsibility for implementing the various
components of the project. Annex 3 shows the organizational structure of the MOPH and the project
management structure, and gives details on the functions of key directorates in the MOPH.
4.4    The Secretary General of the MOPH will be responsible for overseeing program and project
management and coordination and for ensuring its smooth and efficient implementation. The Directorate
of Studies and Planning (DEP) will oversee all sector investments and will be strengthened during the
program  period to take on the management and coordination of program  implementation.  The
Directorate of Financial Affairs and Materials (DAF/M) will have overall responsibility for procurement
and disbursement activities required by the program. These functions will be handled by the two
relevant divisions of the DAF/M. The Division of Materials will be responsible for procurement
activities as described in para. 4.18, while the Division of Financial Affairs will be responsible for
disbursement and accounting/financial activities, as described in para. 4.27. A Project Coordinator (full-
time civil servant) attached to the MOPH's General Secretariat, who has been nominated prior to
negotiations, is responsible for: (a) facilitating implementation of project activities by the different
central level directorates and the concerned DDS; (b) working closely with the DAF/M to ensure that
accounting, auditing, and procurement procedures agreed to with IDA are respected and carried out
according to agreed implementation and procurement plans; and (c) maintaining regular contact with the
Bank on the technical aspects of project implementation. To assist MOPH and to supplement capacity, a
locally recruited long-term consultant with experience in the management of externally-funded health
projects, aid coordination and participation will advise MOPH staff on program coordination and
management and on reform implementation. The recruitment of this adviser with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA was a condition of Board Presentation. During negotiations, Government
gave assurances that it would maintain until project completion the adviser to the MOPH and that overall
responsibility for project coordination in each of the three DDS to benefit from direct IDA assistance
would rest with the DDS director, who would delegate day-to-day coordination functions to his deputy.
These deputies (or departmental coordinators), whose appointment would be a condition of
effectiveness, would be responsible for project management and supervision at the DDS level. During
negotiations, Government gave assurances that DDS staff designated to act as departmental Project
Coordinators shall, at all times until completion of the Project, have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA and that the staff of each of the three DDS would include at all times a financial
specialist with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. Specific responsibilities of these
coordinators would include: facilitating implementation of project activities at the DDS level; working
closely with all relevant services of the DDS; maintaining regular contact with donors and with the two
central directorates (DEP and DAF/M) on the technical aspects of project implementation; providing



29
advice and assistance to the DDS and its various services in program management and aid coordination
in light of experience and responsibilities inherent in this position; and attending quarterly meetings held
at the district level (para. 4.6). Training of key staff at the central and DDS levels as well as technical
assistance will be provided for under the Japanese Grant and the PPF. A project operational manual,
satisfactory to IDA, which will lay out roles, responsibilities, procedures and processes for the
coordination, management, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities (including
the refinement and agreement on appropriate performance indicators), will be adopted and submitted to
IDA as condition of effectiveness. The manual will also provide guidance on procurement and
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting. The project operational manual (including the policy
and procedures manual for contracting arrangements for small-scale services at the district level -- para.
3.31) will be discussed during the project launch workshop, scheduled to take place at the latest shortly
after effectiveness. This manual will include a detailed first year work program (implementation plan).
D.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
1. Monitoring and Evaluation.
4.5    Careful and regular monitoring and evaluation of the program is needed to assist in taking timely
measures to address and resolve implementation difficulties. The district health teams will take a lead
role in program monitoring and evaluation and, as such, will provide the mechanism for eliciting the
inputs from Government, beneficiaries and donors in this regard. In order to strengthen the capacity of
the district health teams and the staff at the DDS and the central levels in playing this role, the project
will provide training in key areas of management at the onset of project implementation. Key indicators
selected for tracking implementation and output/impact are described in para. 3.33 and presented in
Annex 8. Beneficiary assessments and epidemiological surveys will be carried out in selected districts to
provide baseline data both of a qualitative and quantitative nature and will be undertaken at the project mid-
term and at its end to monitor and measure project performance. The epidemiological surveys will permit
tracking of changes in health status, while the beneficiary assessments will provide clients with a means for
voicing their needs, preferences and assessment of service delivery quality and will shed light on the
effectiveness of mechanisms for community participation in sector management.  Monitoring and
evaluation arrangements will provide: (a) a systematic measure of performing and non performing health
facilities; (b) a means for carefully assessing the critical factors associated with the quality of health service
delivery; and (c) an assessment in the development of health care coverage. Beneficiaries and other
stakeholders will be deliberately involved in the monitoring and evaluation process. MOPH MIS capacity
is sufficiently strong thanks to USAID assistance, and will be an important instrument for project
monitoring and evaluation. Details on monitoring and evaluation activities will be described in the
Operational Manual.
2. Supervision
4.6    Government. District, departmental and central level personnel will supervise project activities
during their regularly scheduled supervision trips. Their tasks will be, among other things, to address any
issues hindering smooth implementation of the Program. In certain cases they will be expected to alert
relevant authorities on problems needing immediate actions (i.e., staff sanctions, training, etc.). The district
health teams will each meet quarterly to review progress and discuss and resolve field-level project
implementation problems; the DDS will meet semiannually to review progress on program/project
implementation and to discuss and resolve departmental level issues. Semiannual reports will be prepared
by the DEP based on the results of the departmental meetings indicating the program's physical/financial
status as well as its progress on the institutional issues. The project coordinator would also prepare semi-
annual reports (para. 4.29).



30
4.7   IDA  Because of the sectoral nature of IDA's support and the decentralization of the proposed
activities, IDA supervision will draw on Resident Mission assistance, particularly to: (a) foster the SIP
approach; (b) maintain close coordination with other donors; (c) carry out periodic field visits to the project
zone; and (d) facilitate communications with Headquarters and ensure smooth project implementation. To
the extent feasible, IDA's supervision from Headquarters will draw on the various expertise necessary to
monitor sector reforms. These missions will draw, inter alia, on the semiannual progress reports to provide
the basis for the issues to be discussed in the field.
4.8    The details of the Bank's supervision plan are provided in Annex 9. Two supervision missions per
year will be required: (a) early in the calendar year to inter alia evaluate implementation of the program,
conduct the annual review of project progress during the previous year, and examine the annual audit of the
project's accounts; and (b) late in the calendar year to review the proposed annual programs and budgets for
the following year. At least one of these missions will coincide with a meeting at the DDS and, on
occasion, at the district level. All partners in the sector (donors, NGOs, beneficiaries, etc.) will be involved
in these reviews.
4.9    Mid-term Review. Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that a mid-term
review (MTR) would be carried out to monitor progress of project implementation. As in the case for the
Annual Reviews (para. 3.27), four weeks prior to the mid-term review workshop, the Government will
submit to IDA for its review and comments a report that would evaluate past performance according to
agreed indicators and that would also include key forward-looking elements. In addition, this report would
also include assessments of: (a) the effectiveness of small-scale district contracting, judged against specific
performance indicators; (b) progress in the application of the health financing policy, as outlined in the PDS
and prospects for its finetuning; (c) relevance of health sector human resource strategy in light of reforms,
progress in its implementation, and prospects for its finetuning; (d) project's impact on health status in the
project area through an epidemiological survey; (e) project's performance and impact from the perspectives
of various key stakeholders, including beneficiaries, DDS staff, local authorities, and service providers
working in the project area; and (f) the sustainability of both Program and project, considering their
financial, operational, technical and administrative requirements. The MTR would be the responsibility of
the MOPH, which would coordinate and ensure its preparation, execution and follow up activities. It
would be participatory in its design. The results would be reviewed jointly by the Government and the
Bank, in full consultation with key stakeholders, and recommendations emanating from the MTR process
would be implemented promptly based on an agreed schedule.
E.     Gender Impact
4.10   Improvements in access to and the quality of family planning, health and nutrition services will
have an immediate positive impact on the life of women in a number of ways. Raising the Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate (CPR) will permit women to space births and thus alleviate the burden of maternal
depletion and continuous childbirth and the temptation to resort to unsafe abortions. Improved access
and outreach will also offer them the opportunity to deal with other obstetric problems and problems of
infertility or sub-fecundity which currently disrupt family life. The integration of family planning,
maternal and child health, and nutrition services will offer protection to mother and child and lay a solid
foundation for healthy growth of newborns and the welfare of their mothers. Effective management and
referral of high-risk pregnancies and complications at delivery would save women's lives and offer them
a better chance of bringing up healthy children. Systematic monitoring of the nutrition of women will
reduce the current high rate of anemia among pregnant women and reduce the incidence of low birth
weight. Such improvements will free women's resources and enable them to pursue economic and social
activities that fully integrate them into development activities and, as such, complement the recently



31
approved IDA investment in primary education, which supports national strategy to increase school
enrollment for girls. Finally, efforts to encourage and formalize the participation of women in the
management and implementation of health programs should expand their opportunities to improve their
own health status and that of their children.
F.     Environmental Impact
4.11    The project will have a positive environmental impact through activities promoting human and
household waste disposal and sanitation. The health promotion activities by the health district teams,
local partners, and community management comittees will create greater community awareness of the
measures needed to protect the environment and keep public places (health facilities, schools, and
markets) clean and provided with basic sanitation facilities. In-service programs under the project will
include training of clinical staff in proper procedures for handling and disposing of blood products,
needles and other hazardous materials and in mobilizing communities to improve the environment for
better health. The project will also provide safe water supplies in all health facilities that it covers.
G.    Procurement Arrangements
4.12   Table 4.1 below summarizes the estimated program cost by expenditures and the proposed
methods of procurement. A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in October 1985.
At that time, the laws and regulations which had been enacted over the last four decades, remained
somewhat outdated and sometimes contradictory. With IDA's assistance (under the Public Enterprise
Insitutional Development Project, Cr. 1838-NIR), the Government prepared new comprehensive
procurement regulations and, in April 1989, promulgated a new public procurement code. Article 5 of
the procurement code, allow IDA's procedures to take precedence. In order for National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures to be acceptable to IDA, the credit document should include a waiver of the
regulation that grants preference to local contractors and suppliers. NCB procedures will provide for the
following elements: (a) permit participation of foreign bidders if they wish to participate; (b) explicit
statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (c) local advertising with public bid opening;
(d) award to lowest evaluated bidder.  All works, goods and services financed under the IDA credit
would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines and standard bidding documents for Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for Consultant Services (Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, and Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981).



32
- Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements */
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                             ICB            NCB             Other            N.l.F.           Total Cost
1. WORKS
(a) Consuctbon and Rehabilitation of CSIs                      11.6                              63.3              74.9
(11.6)                                             (11.6)
(c) Extension and Rehab. of HDs and CHD         3.2                                                                3.2
(3.2)                                                             (3.2)
2. GOODS
(a) Medical Equipment and Materials             3.9                                             13.0               16.9
(3.9)                                                             (3.9)
(b) Office Equipment and Fumiture                              1.0             0.05              3.7               4.8
(1.0)          (0.05)                              (1.0)
(c) Essential Drugs and Supplies for Labs.      8.5                            0.1               18.4             27.0
(8.5)                          (0.1)                              (8.6)
(d) Vehicles                                    0.7                            0.1               2.7               3.5
(0.7)                          (0.1)                              (0.8)
(e) Small Materials                                                            0.1               0.3               0.4
(0.1)                             (0.1)
3. CONSULTING SERVICES, RESEARCH AND
STUDIES
2.0              2.6               4.6
(a) Project Supervision, ImplementWon and                                      (2.0)                              (2.0)
Monitoring Support                                                           1.5               8.8              10.3
(b) Institutional Development                                                  (1.5)                              (1.5)
1.3              3.3               4.5
(c) Research, Studies, and Surveys                                             (1.3)                              (1.3)
4. TRAINING                                                                      2.8               8.6              11.3
(2.8)                             (2.8)
5. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
(a) Incremental Contractual Salaries                                            0.1              61.8              61.9
(b) Operating Costs j/                                                          4.1)             48.152.
4.1             48.1              52.2
(3.2)                             (3.2)
TOTAL:                               16.3            12.6            12.1             234.5             275.5
IDA FINANCING:                           (16.3)         (12.6)          (11.2)            (0.0)            (40.0)
*/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA, PPF included. All values in parentheses are
net of taxes and duties. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
/ Operating costs include office consummables, field supervision and associated subsistence allowances,
buildings, vehicles and equipment maintenance and operating costs.
N.I.F.= Not IDA-financed: Other donors under parallel financing; Government and Communities.
4.13      Works.  Civil works financed under IDA  include: construction and rehabilitation of Integrated
Health Centers (CSI I and 2), extension of medical centers into district hospitals (HD) and rehabilitation
of the departrnental hospital (CHD) of Diffa, rehabilitation of offices at the central and departmental



33
levels (Departmnents of Diffa and Zinder), staff housing, and boreholes. Contracts for extension and
rehabilitation (district hospitals and CHD) estimated at more than US$200,000 per contract would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The extension of HD and rehabilitation of CHD would be grouped into one package of
several lots and bidder will be allowed to bid for one, two ...., or all lots. Contracts for construction and
rehabilitation estimated at less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$11.6
million equivalent would be awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB). Communities
will provide for the fencing of all CSIs constructed and/or rehabilitated under the project.
4.14   Goods. Goods financed by IDA under the project would include: essential drugs, office
furniture and equipment, communication and small medical apparatus, medical equipment and supplies,
vehicles, documentation, and training materials.
(a)  Goods. Goods that can be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 each would be
procured through ICB using Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Goods, January
1995 (Details on ICB for essential drugs and disposable medical supplies are shown in para. 4.14[b].).
Goods which can be competitively procured nationally and which cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$100,000 equivalent each would be procured through NCR under procedures acceptable to IDA,
up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent. Small items and goods which cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of price
quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurements does not exceed a total of US$0.3 million equivalent. For specialized software and
standardization of equipment, procurement would be needed under direct contracting up to an aggregate
of US$0.05 million equivalent.
(b)  Essential Drugs and Disposable Medical Supplies.  Essential generic drugs and
disposable medical supplies would be procured through ICB by the management unit (Cellule de
Medicaments Essentiels et Generiques) of the ONPPC established by the EDF. The procurement of
drugs would be on the basis of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, (September 1993), and the procurement of disposable medical supplies
would be based on the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods. The performance of the ONPPC
on procurement matters would be subject to periodic review by IDA. Essential drugs and disposable
medical supplies would correspond to the approved MOH's formulary for drugs and to pharmacopea
norms, for departmental and district hospitals and CSIs. A preferential margin of 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods would be given for
locally produced drugs in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for all ICB procurement. All bids
would be submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on an ex-factory basis for locally
manufactured goods.
4.15   Consultant Services, Research and Studies. The total costs for consultant services, research and
studies is estimated at US$4.8 million equivalent. The majority of consultancy services required under
the project would be in large part for project implementation, supervision, management assistance,
training activities, surveys, research and studies, and architectural and engineering services. A concerted
effort will be made to identify and recruit national consultants, wherever possible, and it is expected that
a large share of contracts will in fact be awarded nationally. In the spirit of partnership (para. 3.31) and
based on proven experience in the field, sole source contracts (about 5 percent of the total amount) with
national training institutions such as Ecoles Nationales de Sante Publique (Zinder and Niamey) or
University of Niger would be drawn for carrying out key activities of the project such as national training
programs and operational research (the selection of the institution would be based on a capacity
assessment carried out by the MOPH). Contract arrangements would also be made with various partners



34
at the district level-to carry out services (small-scale) needed in the context of implementing the district
health development plans. Technical assistance will also be used in the development of a follow-on
operation. Details on consultancies will be included in the operational manual. Technical assistance is
itemized in Annex 10.
4.16    Training includes training abroad (US$0.2 million equivalent), and regional and national
training (US$2.6 million equivalent). Whenever appropriate, external training will take place in the
Africa region. Details on external and national training are provided in Annex 11. Plans for external
and local training needs will be discussed at each level of the health system during the periodic reviews.
Training to be financed by the IDA credit will be subject to its review on an annual basis. IDA and
MOPH have agreed to pursue in the context of these annual reviews, opportunities for strengthening
specialization training of Niger's Faculty of Health Sciences and thus minimize need for external
training.
4.17   Recurrent Costs, including consumables, communications and other administrative costs,
incremental contractual salaries (excluding civil servant salaries), field supervision and subsistence
allowances, building and vehicle/equipment operation and maintenance, will be procured and paid for
following regular Government procedures, acceptable to IDA. IDA's financing would be reduced from
90 percent to 80 percent after June 30, 1999.
4.18   Procurement Management and Coordination. An assessment of the country's capacity in
carrying out civil works management during project implementation was carried out during appraisal.
Based on its result, it has been agreed that for civil works associated with the construction and
rehabilitation of CSIs (I and 2), a contract would be drawn with an engineering management firm such
as Nigetip to prepare bidding documents, launch of tenders, and supervise construction/rehabilitation
sites. For civil works associated with the extension and rehabilitation of HD and CHD to be procured
under ICB, it was agreed that a qualified architectural and engineering firm would be recruited to carry
out architectural and engineering studies under the direct control of the MOPH. Details on the civil work
program will be included in the Project Operational Manual.  Except for the construction and
rehabilitation of CSIs, the Division of Materials of the DAF/M will have the responsibility for managing
and monitoring all procurement activities of the program financed by IDA. The procurement will be
carried out by staff of the Division of Materials assisted before and during project implementation by a
locally recruited procurement specialist with relevant experience in externally funded projects. In
addition to this assistance, relevant MOPH staff will receive adequate training as part of pre-project
activity in procurement for IDA-financed projects. Although the DAF/M Director will be responsible for
the overall administrative and contractual arrangements of the program, he will liaise closely with the
Division of Materials head on all matters related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of
work plans for the smooth execution of procurement of all works, goods, and services, including the
preparation of bidding documents and launching of tenders. In some cases, the DAF/M will also carry
out evaluation (based on contract amount), and report the results to the Government and to IDA for
review. In addition, adequate records on procurement progress, (including staff reports on site visits, the
timing of works and goods procurement; and compliance with agreed methods of procurement) will be
maintained by the DAF/M. These data will be used in MOPH's program monitoring system. A schedule
for key procurement steps, which was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations will be included in
the Project Operational Manual.
4.19   Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above thresholds of US$200,000
and US$100,000 equivalent, respectively, would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Prior IDA
review would also apply to consultant services and training contracts estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Prior review would apply below these



35
thresholds for terms of reference, single-source hiring of firms, amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals. Post-review of
awarded contracts below the prior review thresholds would apply to over 50 percent (about US$20.0
million equivalent) of these contracts. A timetable for the preparation of bidding documents for works,
goods, and services as part of project preparation activity has been agreed upon and will be included in
the Project Operational Manual.
4.20   Assurance was obtained during negotiations that procurement of goods, works and consultants'
services required for the program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit will take place in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Procurement information will be collected and recorded
as follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (b) comprehensive
semi-annual reports to IDA by the Borrower, indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award,
and completion time for individual contracts; (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods
of procurement; and (iv) a project final report prepared within the three months of the credit's closing
date.
H.    Disbursement
4.21   The project, which supports the PDS, is expected to be completed within a five-year period by
December 31, 2001 with a credit closing date of June 30, 2002. The disbursement schedule takes into
account: (a) the considerable amount of time and resources invested by the MOPH in preparing and
planning the PDS; (b) the level of support received from all parts of the government to the PDS and as
subscribed in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP); (c) the selection of the health sector as a first step
towards implementing Government's policy of decentralization; (d) the high degree of ownership and
commitment towards the program at all levels of government (central, departmental and district levels);
and (e) the strengthening of MOPH capacity by adding an adequate number of qualified and trained staff
in the Directorates of Studies and Planning (DEP) and Financial Affairs and Materials (DAF/M) as well
as the strengthening of the capacity at the departmental and district levels in management, monitoring,
supervision, evaluation and control of activities. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex
12.
4.22   Table 4.2 gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the IDA credit, and the
percentage to be financed in each category.



36
Table 4.2: Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Category                     (US$ Million)          % of Expenditures to be Financed
1.     Civil Works:                                         100% foreign, 90% local
(a) Construction of new
facilities                            6.3
(b) Other works                       7.0
2.      Goods, including Vehicles:                          100% foreign, 100% local (ex factory
(a) For new facilities                 1.5          costs), and 90% local expenditures for
(b) Other                             2.5           other items procured locally
3.      Drugs                                  8.5          100% foreign, 100% local (ex factory
costs), and 90% local expenditures for
other items procured locally
4.      Consultant Services, Research,                       100%
and Studies
(a) Pilot initiatives                 0.4
(b) Others                            4.4
5.      Training (including
training materials)                    3.0          100%
6.      Operating Costs a/                     3.4          90% up to June 30, 1999;
thereafter 80%
7.      Refuinding of PPF                      0.7
8.      Unallocated
Total IDA Financing                  40.0
a/ As defined in para. 4.17 above.
4.23    Conditions of Disbursements. The conditions of disbursements are as follows: (a) categories
l(a) and 2(a) (construction and equipment of new facilities): the Government will provide a plan,
referred to in Annex 3 of the statement of sector development policy, satisfactory to IDA, for
redeployment, retraining and recruitment of health sector staff in order to ensure that upgraded and new
health facilities will be sufficiently staffed and operational in line with MOPH staffing norms and in full
respect of the PFP; (b) category 3 (drugs): the Government will adopt a decret d'application acceptable
to IDA, for Law No. 95-014 of July 3, 1995, on cost recovery.
4.24    Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in The World Bank Disbursement
Handbook (1992). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement
and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. The Operational Manual will further outline the
role and responsibilities of the staff of the Division of Financial Affairs of the DAF/M with regard to
disbursement/payment and financial accounting.



37
4.25   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account will be opened in FCFA in a commercial bank in terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation amounts to FCFA 750 million and covers about four
months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount of FCFA 375 million representing 50
percent of the authorized allocation will be deposited in the Special Account. The remaining balance
will be made available when the total amount withdrawn from the credit account and/or special
commitments issued amounts to the equivalent of US$20 million. The Special Account will be used for
all payments below US$300,000 equivalent.  Replenishments will be submitted monthly.  All
replenishments should be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent
for civil works and US$100,000 for goods; (b) contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for
consulting services - firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for consultants services - individuals; and (c)
training and operating costs, which will be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained for review by periodic Bank supervision
missions and external auditors.
4.26   Government Financing.  Government financial contribution to the health sector would be
monitored through the accounting and monitoring system to be established with the assistance of an
auditor and the MFP. The MFP will be required to make quarterly allocations to the MOPH on the basis
of an agreed budget for the program, proposed by Government, and accepted by IDA one month before
the beginning of each fiscal year. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government will open a
Project Account and deposit an initial amount of 50 million CFAF (equivalent to the first year of
counterpart expenditures). Assurance was received at negotiations that this project account will be
maintained during project implementation. Improvements to MOPH's accounting system would also be
undertaken in the context of the project's management strengthening efforts.
I.    Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
4.27   Overall responsibility for the program's financial management would rest with the Division of
Financial Affairs at the DAF/M. Vouchers and checks for payment will be signed by the financial
controller and transmitted to the Project Coordinator (DEP) for processing through the DAF/M Director.
Project accounts, as well as the project special account and disbursements under SOEs, will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA whose selection will be a condition of
effectiveness. Also, as a condition of effectiveness, the Government will furnish evidence satisfactory
to IDA that a computerized accounting and financial management system for the implementation of the
project has been established in the DAF/M and in the DDS within the project area, and that qualified and
experienced accountants have been appointed. Establishment of such an accounting system will include
the preparation of an accounting procedures manual, and training of accountants.
4.28   Audited accounts and reports will be submitted to the MOPH, MFP and IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor would establish a "Long Form Report" as described
in the Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Project Financed by the World Bank,
March 1982. Audit on project expenditures would include an examination of the substantiating
documentation and a verification that: (a) project accounts permnit identification of all receipt and
payments; (b) goods have been received or work performed; (c) payments have been made; (d) all
expenditures have been legitimate; and (e) the special account has been used appropriately; along with an
opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and on whether the goods, works, and services acquired
under the project were being utilized in accordance with its objectives. The auditors would also include
the management report revealing possible shortcomings in staffing and systems, and evaluate the
accounting system and efficiency of the internal control procedures. There is no outstanding audit for
the First Health Project (Cr. 1668-NIR, closed June 30, 1995).



38
4.29   Reporting. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will: (a) submit to IDA
for its review and comments, semi-annual progress reports on the status of the project; and (b) prepare
and submit to IDA, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to IDA a completion report that would cover,
inter alia, the execution of the operation, its costs and benefits, the performance of the Government and
the Bank, and a plan to ensure Program sustainability.
V. BENEFT&S AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
5.1   IDA's intervention will provide some one million people with improved access to preventive and
curative care. Increased vaccination coverage of children and availability of quality pre- and post-natal
care and family planing services would contribute to efforts to reduce infant and maternal mortality and
to efforts to increase contraceptive prevalence. The project's support of STD/AIDS activities would also
reinforce the GON's efforts to prevent the spread of AIDS and reduce STD transmission. In addition,
community participation in the management and financing of health services would enhance people's
awareness of health issues, render the health system more accountable to the clients it is meant to serve,
and facilitate the adoption of more advanced policy reforms. The project would also improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the national health system through: improved planning of health
interventions, more efficient management of resources, fuller utilization of non-governmental capacity.
In addition, more efficient utilization of the various referral levels of the health system and the
generalization of the use of generic drugs would together help contain costs of health services. A more
detailed assessment of Program and project benefits is presented in the economic analysis in Annex 7.
B.    Risks
5.2   The most prominent among the country risks is the tenuous macroeconomic situation, which puts
into question Niger's ability to provide its counterpart financing of the Program. Implementation of the
Program in the North risks being delayed if the peace agreement with the Tuaregs is not implemented.
Tlhe most significant institutional risk is Government commitmnent and capacity to decentralize.
Decentralization is one of Niger's stated priorities, albeit with uncertain implementation schedule.
Commitment within and outside MOPH, capacity, mechanisms, and the pace of decentralization are not,
however, fully evident. The various dimensions of decentralization (political, administrative and
operational) will most likely take place slowly, and at various paces. While establishment of health
districts will be initiated at the Program's outset, its success will be subject to risks associated with
building sufficient administrative and financial capacity at the decentralized levels -- tasks associated
with the public sector management reforms, not yet in place. Given that PDS strategy is anchored in
economic analyses and lessons of experience contained in WDR '93 and BHA technical risks are likely to
be small, and related to adaptation of experience and lessons to the Nigerien context. There is a risk that
cost recovery will limit or prohibit utilization of services by the poorest and most vulnerable groups.
Efforts to strengthen partnerships in health is risky in that it is a new approach, but is one well worth
pursuing.
VI.A         FfARE M
6.1    During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)    prepare and adopt a pricing mechanism for essential generic drugs in the private and
public sectors by March 31, 1998 (para. 3.12);



39
(b)    not later than three months following Effective Date it will introduce into Parliament: (i)
a draft pharmaceutical law, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.16); and (ii) a law that would demonopolize
ONPPC (paras. 3.17);
(c)    adopt no later than December 31, 1997 a new legal status for ONPPC's essential drugs
procurement unit, satisfactory to IDA, that would accord it sufficient managerial and financial autonomy
(para. 3.17);
(d)    present a new draft legal status for following functions of ONPPC--quality control and
laborator, production, and acquisition, distribution and retailing--at the time of the mid-term review, and
adopt no later than June 30, 2000 the final versions of the legal status, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.17);
(e)    establish district health teams in the project area no later than 12 months after credit
effectiveness, and that districts will undertake, on a quarterly basis, as soon as district health teams have
been established, participatory evaluations of performance in implementing district plans, with a view to
reviewing and refining programs, financing plans and budget allocations in light of experience and
accomplishments. These evaluations will be submitted to the DDS, which will consolidate them at the
departmental level (para. 3.22);
(f)    carry out on a semi-annual basis participatory evaluations of departmental performance
in implementing the PDS. On the basis of program performance and lessons learned, programs,
financing plans and budget allocations will be reviewed and revised, and submitted to MOPH central
level for review and consolidation (para. 3.23);
(g)    undertake no later than April 30 of each year annual reviews of Program and project
performnance in the implementation of the PDS and revision of the following year's plan in light of
experience gained, lessons learned and emerging opportunities and constraints (para. 3.27);
(h)    at least four weeks prior to the Annual Review of Program Performance MOPH, submit
to IDA for its review and to other donors an annual sector performance report, drawing on reviews and
reports carrried out at the district and departmental levels, and encompassing both a retrospective of the
past year's performance and forward-looking elements. This report would provide the basis for
discussions at the Annual Review (para. 3.27);
(i)    implement plans and decisions agreed to during the Annual Reviews and take any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy constraints identified during the Review or any other
measures to facilitate achievement of Program objectives (para. 3.27);
(j)    undertake by the time of the mid-term review of the project an evaluation of community
participation experience culminating in the elaboration of a draft legal framework for community
participation in health. This evaluation and draft legal framework would be discussed and reviewed at
the mid-term review and the legal framework introduced into Parliament for its adoption after the mid-
term review workshop (para. 3.30);
(k)    maintain until project completion the long-term national adviser to the MOPH on sector
reform and PDS implementation with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.4);
(1)    designate DDS staff to act as departmental Project Coordinators at all times until
completion of the project with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA and that the staff of the



40
three DDS would include at all times a financial specialist with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.4);
(m)   carry out in consultation with IDA a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying
out the project, which would include an epidemiological survey and a beneficiary assessment (para. 4.9);
(n)    maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.26); and
(o)    submit to IDA for its review and comments semi-annual progress reports on the status of
the project, and prepare and submit to IDA, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to IDA, a completion
report, including a plan to ensure Program sustainability (4.29).
6.2    As conditions of Board Presentation, the Government: (a) submitted to IDA the final, signed
statement of health sector policy, including the three annexes (para. 2.27); and (b) recruited a long-term
national adviser to MOPH on sector reform and PDS implementation with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.4).
6.3    As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would have:
(a)    adopted a Project Operational Manual, including, inter alia, a work program for the first
twelve months period after the Effective Date, all satisfactory to IDA (para.4.4);
(b)    appointed in each of the three DDS (Diffa, Tillaberi, and Zinder), a departmental project
coordinator with skills and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.4); and
(c)    opened a Project Account and deposited a sum equivalent to the first year of counterpart
expenditures (50 million CFAF) (para. 4.26).
(d)    furnished evidence, satisfactory to IDA, that a computerized accounting and financial
management system for the implementation of the Project has been established in the DAF/M, and in the
DDS of Diffa, Tillaberi, and Zinder, and that qualified and experienced accountants have been appointed
(paras. 4.27); and
(e)    selected project auditors under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.27).
6.4    The following will be conditions of disbursement:
(a)    construction and equipment of new health facilities: the Government will provide a plan,
referred to in Annex 3 of the statement of sector development policy, satisfactory to IDA, for
redeployment, retraining and recruitment of health sector staff in order to ensure that upgraded and new
health facilities will be sufficiently staffed and operational in line with MOPH staffing norms, and in full
respect of the PFP (para. 3.9 and 4.23); and
(b)    drugs: the Govermment will adopt a decret d'application acceptable to IDA, for Law No.
95-014 of July 3, 1995, on cost recovery (paras. 3.12 and 4.23).
6.6    Recommendation. Subject to agreement to the above, the proposed program will constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$40.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Niger on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 40 years.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
BASIC INDICATORS
Population                          Niger        SSA
Total Population a/                   8.7        559.0     million
Population Growth Rate a/            3.3          2.9      per annum
Total Fertility Rate a/               7.3         6.2      children per woman
GNP per capita a/                    270          n.a.     (US$)
Maternal Mortality Rate a!           700          n.a.     per thousand births
Education
Primary School Enrollment - Total a/  29           67      of relevant age group
Secondary School Enrollment - Girls b/  4          18      of relevant age group
Health
Crude Birth Rate (CBR) b/             52           45      live births per thousand pop.
Crude Death Rate (CDR) b/             19           15      deaths per thousand pop.
Infant Mortality Rate (IMR)          123          93.1     per thousand births
Life Expectancy at Birth a/           47           52      years
Coverage of deliveries a/            3,989        n.a.
Population per National Physician a/  35,141      n.a.     persons
Population per Nurse b/              659          n.a.     persons
Population per Hospital Bed b/       1,922        n.a.     persons per bed
Child malnutrition
Height-for-age (stunted) c/          32.3         n.a.     % of under-5 child
Weight-for-age (wasted) c/           15.8         n.a.     % of under-5 child
Weight-for-age (undernourished) c/   36.2         n.a.     % of under-5 child
Water supply
Access to Safe Water                  59          n.a.     of the population
Sources:          a\ The World Bank. Social Indicators of Development. 1995. April 1995
b\ Ministere de la Sante Publique. projet de Plan de
Developpement Sanitaire 1994-2000. May 1994
c\ Demogmphic and Health Survey, 1992
Note: SSA = Sub-Saharan Africa.



ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
MAJOR CAUSES OF MORBIDITY
La situation epidemiologique actuelle du Niger, se caracterise par une forte predominance des
maladies infectieuses et parasitaires. Les principales morbidites rapportees par les formations sanitaires sont
presentees dans le tableau 14.
Elles se resument comme suit:
* Le paludisme : demeure la premiere affection avec une incidence annuelle de 1170 cas pour 10.000
habitants. En effet, le paludisme sevit de facon end6mique, avec des variations saisonnieres. Des
phenomenes de chloroquino-resistance ont commence A apparaitre dans certaines regions (Gaya,
Tillaberi).
3  Les Infections Respiratoires Aigues : constituent la deuxieme morbidite chez les enfants de moins
de cinq ans.
* Les maladies diarrh6iques constituent la premiere morbidite chez les enfants de moins de 5 ans.
*  Les affections ophtalmologiques: une enquete nationale effectuee en 1989 (par le Programme
National de Lutte contre la Cecite) a determine le taux de Cecite au Niger A 2,2%. Elie depasse le
seuil etabli par l'OMS (0,5%). Les causes principales demeurent:
* les maladies conjonctivo-corn6ennes et carentielles pour 0,75%
*  les cataractes degeneratives et secondaires pour 0,6%
*  les glaucomes degeneratifs et secondaires pour 0,6%
*  les autres causes qu'elles soient traumatiques, h6reditaires ou indeterminees pour 0,3% des cas.
80% des affections oculaires cecitantes sont curables et/ou evitables.
*  Les affections dermatologiques: dominees par les infections bacteriennes et parasitaires (Impetigo,
Furoncle, Pyodermite, Gale..) constituent la cinquieme cause de morbidite dans la population.
*  Les affections gynico-obstitricales: 1'etat de sante du couple mere/enfant, constituant 70% de la
population, demeure preoccupant: La mortalite maternelle est de 7 pour mille. Elle est l'une des plus
elevees au monde. Sur une periode de 15 ans (1973-1988), 4 grandes etiologies ont ete degagees
representant au total 75% de deces maternels en milieu urbain:
* hemorragie de la delivrance 21 %
* ruptures uterines 20%
*  infections 18%
*  eclampsies 15 %



ANNEX2
Page 2 of 3
*  En zone rurale, les donnees sont incompletes. 11 a ete constate neanmoins que l'insuffisance de
consultations prenatales et les accouchements non assistes sont parmi les principaux facteurs qui font
courir sur la mere nigerienne de serieux risques de deces par hemorragie, ruptures uterines, infections
et eclampsies.
*  Les affections urinaires
* La rougeole est la premiere cause de deces des enfants de moins de 5 ans. Elle se remarque par des
epidemies saisonnieres, dont les plus importantes depuis 1981 etaient celles de 1984-85 et de 1990-
1991. La couverture vaccinale chez les enfants de moins de 24 mois n'est que de 27,8%.
* La meningite cerebro-spinale est frequente surtout pendant la saison seche lorsque souffle
I'harmattan, avec un taux de morbidite de I a 2%. L'6pidemie la plus importante depuis 1981 etait
celle de 1985-86.
*  La fievre jaune sevit de maniere endemique dans certains pays voisins, ce qui represente un risque
serieux d'eclosion des foyers epidemiques au Niger.
* Le cholera a une tendance endemo-epiddmique depuis 1984, et particulierement dans le sud du
departement de Maradi et le long du Goulbi de Maradi (frontiere avec le Nigeria).
*  La schistosomiase apparait avec un fort taux de prevalence de 40% a 70% dans certaines regions du
pays, notamment, le long du fleuve et autour des mares permanentes.
*  La lepre reste un fleau social et un probleme non negligeable de sante publique avec un taux de
prevalence de 1,0%o.
*  La dracunculose  (ver de Guinee) s6vit de maniere endemique dans certaines regions,
particuli6rement le long du fleuve et au sud du pays, elle represente un important probleme de sant6
publique a cause de son aspect handicapant. Dans les 5 departements identifies comme zones
endemiques lors de 1'enquete nationale sur le ver de Guin6e realisee en 1991, 32.829 cas ont 6t6
recenses. La plupart des cas (64%) se trouvent dans le departement de Zinder. L'arrondissement de
Mirriah, departement de Zinder, est le plus touche du pays avec 457 villages endemiques totalisant
17.763 cas.
*  Les maladies sexuellement transmissibles (MST) sont en progression. Elles occupent le premier
rang de la morbidite dans la population adulte (15 ans et plus), et dans le d6partement de Diffa, le
8eme au niveau national. Elles affectent 30% des femmes enceintes en milieu urbain, et on estime la
pr6valence globale a 300.000 cas par an dans le pays. Parmi les cas notifi6s, 11 % se trouvent chez les
personnes de moins de 15 ans.
*  L'importance de la poliomy6lite est tres probablement sous estimee dans les formations sanitaires, vu
la difficulte de diagnostic au debut de la maladie. Peu de cas ont ete enregistres en 1990 et 1991 (39 et
57 respectivement). Pourtant la couverture vaccinale pour la poliomyelite est tres basse, de 20,1 %
chez les enfants de 12 a 23 mois en 1992.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
*  Le syndrome d'immuno-deficience acquise (SIDA): Les premiers cas de SIDA au Niger ont ete
depistes en 1987. De 1987 a 1992, 809 cas de SIDA ont et notifies pour 1'ensemble des formations
sanitaires. Ce norme est passe a 921 cas le 30 juin 1993. Une recente enquete epidemiologique
(MSP/BANQUE MONDIALE, Mai-Juin 1993) a Niamey a reve1l les taux de seroprevalence
suivants: 1,3% chez les femmes enceintes; 15,4% cliez les prostituees; 3,0% chez les routiers; 6,0%
chez les porteurs de MST. II existe au Niger les deux virus VIH 1 (93%) et VIH 2. Ces donn&es nous
permettent d'estimer a environ 52.000 le nombre de s6ropositifs dans le pays. Si la transmission n'est
pas reduite nous auront 90.000 seropositifs en 1998 et pres de 6.000 orphelins de mere pour cause du
SIDA. L'importance de la migration vers les pays c6tiers a haute prevalence et le multipartenariat
sexuel favorisent la transmission du virus.
* La tuberculose reste un problrme majeur au Niger. Meme si le nombre de cas rapporte est
relativement bas, le Centre National Antituberculeux estime une incidence annuelle (nombre de
nouveaux cas par an) de 1,5 pour mille. Avec la croissance du SIDA/VIH la tuberculose pourrait
connaitre une recrudescence.
*  La malnutrition protemo-energetique, I'anemie nutritionnelle et la carence en vitamine A, sont
des problemes preoccupants de sante publique. Pres de 20% de nouveau-nes ont un poids a la
naissance inferieur a 2,5 kg. L'enquete sur la morbidite et la mortalite realis6e en 1985 (periode de
grande secheresse) faisait etat de taux de prevalence de malnutrition tres eleves, 24,9% des enfants de
6 a 59 mois subissait une malnutrition aigue t < -2 E.T. poids/taille). Une enquete nationale menee en
1992 a demontre un taux de malnutrition aigue de 16,9% chez ce meme groupe. Les tranches d'age les
plus touchees sont les enfants de 6 a 23 mois (periode d'introduction des aliments solides et de
sevrage). II existe de poches d'endemie de goitre, notamment dans les departements de Dosso,
Tillaberi et Maradi.
3  La mortalite infanto-juvelule (< 5 ans) est tine des plus elevee de l'Afrique. L'enquete
demographique et de sante au Niger en 1992 (EDSNIDHS) I'a estimee a 318 pour mille pour les
quatre annees avant 1'enquete, soit presqu'un enfant sur trois meurt avant l'age de cinq ans (taux de
mortalite infantile 123 pour mille, mortalite juvenile - I a 4 ans - 223 pour mille). Les principales
causes de mortalite pour les enfants de moins de 5 ans sont, par ordre d ' importance, la rougeole, le
paludisme , les diarrhees , la malnutrition et les pneumopathies. Pour la meme tranche d'age, les
causes de morbidite les plus frequentes concernent les affections respiratoires, le paludisme, les
diarrhees, et les affections ophtalmologiques.
*  La couverture vaccinale contre le tetanos pour les femmes enceintes est tres basse, en 1992, 23,4%
des femmes avaient requs au moins une injection antitetanique lors de la derniere grossesse. La meme
annee, la couverture pour toutes les maladies cibles du PEV est tres faible: 17,4% des enfants de 12 a
23 mois (si l'on y ajoute le vaccin contre la fievre jaune. Ia couverture n'est que de 14,4%).
*  L'EDSN 1992 a fait ressortir egalement une prevalence contraceptive modeme tres basse, a peine
2,3%.
*  Au Niger, 32,1 % de la population vit dans un rayon de 5 km d'une formation sanitaire fixe, chiffre
retenu pour representer la couverture sanitaire (cf. Tableaux en annexe).
m:4exph\johanne\nigcr\heatlh2\Annex2.doc



ANNEX 3
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MOPH AND
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
La mise en oeuvre du Plan de Ddveloppement Sanitaire se fera par le Ministere de la Sante Publique
(MSP) a travers ses structures administratives et fimancieres. La gestion du programme sera
decentralis6e et concernera aussi bien le pouvoir de decision que celui de la gestion des ressources.
Toutes les directions du MSP auront la responsabilite en ce qui les concerne d'exdcuter les activites qui
sont de leur ressort.
I. Ministbre de la Sante Publique
Niveau Central
Les directions du niveau central du MSP impliquees dans la mise en oeuvre du programme
sont les suivantes:
La Direction des Etudes et Programmation (DEP): a la responsabilite, en tant que charge de la
planification et la programmation et coordination de toutes les activites du MSP et de leur suivi,
d'assurer la coordination technique de l'execution du programme. Elle assurera la budgetisation des
activites programmees dans le cadre du programme/projet. Au sein de la Division Planification et
Relations Internationales, une personne est chargee d'entretenir des relations avec les partenaires
exerSant dans le domaine de la sante.
La Direction des Affaires Financieres et du Matdriel (DAF/M): qui a en charge la gestion du
budget alloue au MSP, a la coordination financiere du programme et projet A travers le suivi
systematique et la verification de toutes les operations financieres. Elle est composee de deux
divisions. La premiere, la Division des Affaires Financieres assurera le suivi budgetaire et la
comptabilisation de toutes les operations financieres du programme, I'acquisition des biens et la
gestion du materiel et des equipements et des immobilisations. Quant A la seconde, la Division du
Materiel, elle aura la responsabilite de la construction, de la rehabilitation et de l'equipement des
infrastructures sanitaires pour lesquelles elle assure la maintenance et l'entretien. Dans le cadre du
programme, elle aura la responsabilite d'elaborer et de passer les marches des hopitaux de districts et
CHD et utilisera les services d'une agence telle que le NIGETIP pour realiser tous les travaux de
construction et de foumiture en mobilier des Centres de Sante Integres (CSI).
La Direction de la Formation et de la Gestion du Personnel (DF/GP): a la responsabilite de la
formation du personnel A forner ainsi que la gestion et le recrutement du personnel additionnel
necessaire pour la realisation du programme.
La Direction de la Pharnacie et Laboratoire: a pour tache de mettre en oeuvre le Plan Directeur
Pharmaceutique du pays et faire appliquer la poplitique pharmaceutique. L'approvisionnement en
MEG des formations sanitaires sera assurer par cellule des medicaments essentiels de l'ONPPC.
L'Inspection General des Pharmacies et Laboratoires: elle est charge du respect et de I'application et de
la reglementation pharmaceutique.
Coordination Nationale du Proiet: un Coordinateur National, relevant du Secretariat General,
sera responsable de la realisation des activites quotidiennes du programme et de la coordinations de
l'execution des composantes. De plus il assurera la liaison entre le Gouvernement et la Banque
Mondiale. Le coordinateur national sera aide dans son travail par un conseiller, recrute sur les fonds
du projet. Ce dernier aura pour tache de conseiller aussi bien le Coordinateur National du projet que



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
1'ensemble du personnel technique du MSP sur tous les problemes de partenariat et de gestion du
projet.
Niveau Dtfpartemental
Dans le cadre de la decentralisation des service, la Direction Departementale de la Sante
(DDS) assurera l'execution et la gestion financiere du programme au niveau du departement. Ainsi la
DDS sera renforce en ressources humaine, financiere et materielle. Un DDS-Adjoint sera charge en
tant que coordinateur regional du projet, de l'execution et du suivi de tous les aspects techniques. La
gestion financiere au niveau departemental du programme sera sous la responsabilite du chef service
administratif et financier. 11 sera aide dans ces taches par un comptable recrute dans le cadre du projet.
Ce dernier sera charge de la formation des gestionnaires des districts du ressort de son departement.
Niveau District
Le district sera le dernier niveau de la structure de gestion du programme, sous la
responsabilite d'une equipe cadre de district, coordonn6e par un medecin-chef. Au sein de cette equipe
le gestionnaire sera charge de la tenue des comptes, le suivi budgetaire du district et de la supervision
des gestionnaires des CSI rattaches au district. Ce gestionnaire fera partie de l'Equipe cadre de district
(ECD).
II. Structures de Consultation Proposees
Niveau Central
Comite National de Sante: Ce comite est charge de toutes les questions de sante et de politique
sanitaire du pays, il adopte les bilans d'execution, reoriente les programme et mobilise les
ressources necessaires a leur realisation.
Comite Technique National de Sante: Comite dirige par le Secretaire General du MSP, il a pour
fonction d'examiner les rapports de suivi et evaluation et de preparer les sessions du Comite
National de Sante.
Niveau Departemental
Comite Technique Departemental: Ce comite veillera a la mise en oeuvre du programme,
determine les priorites et mobilise les ressources necessaires.
Comite technique Departemental de Sante: Ce cornite developpe une approche integree de
realisation des activites de sante, propose des reorientations et veille a l'execution du
programme.
Niveau District
Comite Technique d'Arrondissement : Ce comite aura pour r6le de veiller a la mise en oeuvre
du plan regional, de determiner les priorites, de participer et faciliter le suivi et I'evaluation du
plan regional et mobiliser les ressources necessaires a la mise en oeuvre du plan.
Comite de Sante de District :11 a pour fonction d'elaborer et de suivre l'execution du plan de
developpement du district. II identifie les themes etet fait promouvoir la recherche
operationnelle, participe a l'evaluation du plan et propose des reorientations.
m:4exph/johanne/niger/health2/gestion.doc



Organigramme du Ministere
de la Sante Publique
DAF/M:Dir.des Affaires Financieres et du Materiel                                           |         s
DEP: Dir.Etudes et Programmation                                                                  Sante Pubiq
DF/GP: Dir. Formation et Gestion Personnel
PDHL: Dir. Pharmacie et Laboratoire
DPS: Dir. Promotion Sante                                                               ONPPC               InpenGenerale
DSF: Dir. Sante Familiale                                                                                       de b Sanle
ONPPC: Office National Produits Pharmaceutiques et
Chimiques
SNIS: Systeme National d'Information Sanitaire
Sed bire
|  Secrebire      |
I G6 n6raIn  It
MSTaSIDA                    SNIS
| Pro,e E.V.
|   DAF     l l         DEP         l l         DPS                    DFIGP                    DPHl                     DSF                     DPSA
0
Dv. Agaires Finandi res  Dv Rech. Etud et Do    Div.Fomnnain Sanitaire   Dv. Formaton            Dv. Approvisionnement   Div SMI                 Dv. Assanssernent
Di. Ma riel             Dv. P    anri 0 F io   Div.Protedion Sanibaire   Dv. Gesbon Personnelle.    Di. Gesbon Conbacptis    Dv. Sui Enant       Div. EPS                                       @
Dv. SWins hhmnier                               Dv. PharnL Tradinnele    Dv. Nutlon              Dv. Hygi ne
Dv. Lutte Contre Maladies                                               Div PF



Structure de gestion du Projet
Secrn taire Ge ne ral!
MSP
Coordonnateur
du projet
CIonseiler Techvnique
du projet
DAF                 DEP                 DPS
Division du           Division Affaires                  DDS.
Mate riel         Financie res
Spedaliste Passation    Comptable
des Marche s        gestionnaire
Equipement       Ge nie                   DDS-Adjoint   DDS-Adjoint   DDS-Adjoint
et mate riel     Civil                        Diffa        Tillabe ri     Zinder
Coordinateur  Coordinateur   Coordinateur
DApa,tental . D$parterWtaf  DNpw1enttaf
Service       Service        Service
financier     financier      finanrer
Gsvi~%able   lCcwabbrr       Convtabie
OQZ
0
'-'



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
CURRENT STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Administrative                          Ministry of Health (MOH)
LEVEL             Division/
Subdivision                       Health Facilities  Intersectoral      Cornmunity
Administration      (pyramid of     Coordination        Participation
services)
Central Ministry Three national    National Health
of Health       hospitals
CENTRAL          National                         (Lamorde, Niamey,
Zinder) and other
specialized centers
Departmental      Departmental       Departmental
|NTERMEDIATE   Departmnent          Bureau of MOH   Hospital Center       Technical
(DDS)             (CHD) and two      Committee
Matemities         (COOTEDEP)
Arrondissement   Medical           Medical Centers    Arrondissement   Various types of
circonscription                      Technical        committees
Committee        established by
(COTEAR)         differentprojects
PERIPHERAL    Commune                                Rural dispensarie                    Various types of
city wrd                            committees
dispensaries and                    established by
Health Posts                        different projects
Village or                         Village Health
City Ward                          Committes



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Estimate of Additional Personnel by Level and by Category
PROGRAMME                   |      PROJET
Theor Reel dWf.  Depart Theor. Reel  def.
retraite
>2000
M6dicaux &
param6dicaux
MEDECIN            265  198   67       4      6      14     0
MD CHIRUR. URG.   68    0    68        0      12     0      12
PHARMACIEN          18   15    3       1      3      0      3
INF.DIPLOME        1069 1154   0      16    171    126    45
AIDE-ANESTH.        96   17   79       1      12     3      9
AIDE-CHIR.          98    8    90      0      12     0      12
INF. SP             16    0    16      0      6      0      6
INF. STAT.          55    4    51      0      9      0      9
MANIP. RX           51    2    49      0      6      0      6
LABORANTIN         303  165  138    0        39      9     30
INF. CERTIFIE      1133  916  217    72    198    108    90
SAGE-FEMME         310  269   41       2     95     23      72
MATRONE            281   159  122   48       96    21      75
ss-total           3763 2907  941   144   665   304    369
Autres qualifications
AGENT               162  153   9       2     31      18     13
D'HYG.ASSAINIS
CHAUFFEUR'         494  244  250    83    122    33         89
CONTROL.TRESOR   47    8    39         0      6      0      6
CUISINIER           16   29    0      18      0      0      0
ECONOMISTE          10    0    10      0      2      0      2
GARDIEN             13   24    0      12      0      0      0
GESTION.            74   222   0       6      12    21      0
INGEN. (SANIT &     17    9    8       0      3      0      3
TECH.BIO.)
MANOEUVRE          1005  983   22    386    160    85       75
PILEUSE             0    9      0      3      0      0      0
PLANTON             9    21    0       6      0      1      0
SECRET.            134  137   0       19     12      8      4
TECH.TP             109   50   59      6      27     3      24
TRAV.SOC.          263  418    0       2      31     68     0
ss-total           2353 2307  388   543   406    237    216
'Les besoins en chauffeurs sont artificiellement elev6s dans la mesure oiu il est prevu un chauffeur par CSI.



ANNEX 5
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Health Expenditures
Table 1: Health and Public Expenditure 1991-94 (millions of CFAF)
Puhlic Health          1991                1992                1993              1994
Actual  % total 1-4  Actual  % total 1-4  Actual  % total 1-4 Actual  % total
1-4
Recurrent expenditures
1. Wages                 3,392    58.58      4,090    58.92     4,102   64.91      3,864   43.94
Number of Staff       (5,371)             (5,534)             (5,727)           (6,022)
2. Equipment             2,229    33.21      2,279    32.83      1,611   25.49     3,997   45.45
of which drugs /vaccines  1,006    14.99     1,348    19.42       943   14.92      2,961   33.67
3. Transportation          151     2.25        173     2.49       207    3.28        532    6.05
4. Student transfers       400     5.96       400      5.76       400    6.33        400    4.56
Total 1-4              6,712   100         6,942   100         6,320  100        8,794   100
Capital expenditures
5. Capital expenditures  3,097               2,749               4,632             9,678  ---
Total 1-5              9,809               9,691              10,952             18,472  ---
Total expenditures      110,700            104,100             101,600            160,000  ---
Percent of health sector    8.86           9.31                10.78              11.54   ---
Source: World Bank 1994.
Table 2: Household expenditure on health and budget share. per annum. per capita
Total     Non-poor   Poor        Very Poor
Urban        Budget share in percent   4.0     4.2        3.9        3.3.
Health exp. in CFAF       3,100      5,000      1,500      900
Population            1,377,400    658,400    719,000   363,600
Total Exp                 4,371      3,292      1,079      327
. in CFAF million
Rural        Budget share in percent   7.5     7.2        8.2        8.1
Health exp. in CFAF       1,900      3,300      1,100       900
Total Exp. in CFAF       12,833      7,827      5,005     2,215
million
Niger        Budget share in percent   6.2     5.9        6.7        6.8
Health exp. in CFAF       2,100      3,700      1,200        900
Population            8,299,600   3,030,300   5,269,300   2,824,800
Total exp. in CFAF       17,203     11,119      6,084      2,542
million
Source: ENBC 1993.
m :4exph\johanne\niger\health2\annex l .doc



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIOUE DU NIGER                           Washington le 13 juin 1996
NflNTSTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIOUE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
N: 0001/MSP/SG/Wash                                 LE MINISTRE DE LA
SAiNTE PUBLIQUE
A
Mr CHARLES P. HUMPHREYS
Directeur pi
Afrique Centre Ouest
Banque Mondiale.
Washington DC.
3bjet: Documents de politique sectorielle.
Monsieur le Directeur,
Dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du Programme de developpement pour le secteur sanitaire au
Niger, jai I'honneur de vous transmettre les documents suivants:
- Declaration de politique sectorielle de sante adopte par le conseil de Cabinet en juillet 1995
- les annexes relatifs:
aux choix d'intervention dans les districts sanitaires
a la strategie de developpement du secteur prive sanitaire
a la gestion rationnneUle des ressources humaines du secteur sante.
Tout en vous souhaitant une bonne reception de ces documents, je vou   o     sicur
le Directeur, I'assurance de ma haute consideration
U: 4 documents.
AMPLIATIONS
-MF/P
- Mission Residente



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 13
REPUBLIOUE DU NIGER                           Washington le 21 juin 1996
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIOUE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
N: 0002/MSP/SG/Wash                                  LE MINISTRE DE LA
SANTE PUBLIQUE
A
Mr CHARLES P. HUTPHREYS
Directeur pi
Afrique Centre Ouest
Banque Mondiale.
Washington DC.
Objet : Documents de politique sectorielle.
Monsieur le Directeur,
Suite aux observations formule'es par I'Equipe sante lors des discussions techniques qui se sont
tenues du 17 au 19 juin 1996, j'ai l'honneur de vous transmettre les documents ainsi amendes. II
s'agit des annexes relatifs:
- aux choix d'intervention dans les districts sanitaires
* a la strategie de developpement du secteur prive' sanitaire
 a la gestion rationnnelle des ressources humaines du secteur sante.
Tout en vous souhaitant une bonne reception de ces documents, je vous prie d'agreer, Monsieur
le Directeur, I'assurance de ma haute consideration.
PJ: 3 documents.
AMPLIATIONS
- MF/P
- Mission Residente
- chrono .2



ANNEX 6
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER                Page 3 of 13
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
DECLARATION DE POLITIQUE
SECTORIELLE DE SANTE
ADOPTEE PAR LE CONSEIL DE CABINET
JuiUet 1995



ANJlEX 6
Page 4 of 13
ECI LARATION DE POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE DE SANTE
La presente declaration a pour objet d'exposer la politique de sante du Gouvernement de
la Ripublique du Niger qui sert de cadre au de'veloppement du secteur sanitaire.
1. LA SITUATION SANITAIRE
Au lendemain des independances la polidque sanitaire du Niger itait axec essentielaement
sur la me'decine curative individueUe. Les cIements essentiels de cette politique reposaient
sur la gratuite des soins, la faible paricipation des communautis t la gestion at au
financement des actions qui interessent kur sante, la pridominance de la medecine
curative et la concentration des infrastructures sanitaires dans lks grandes viles et Ics
grandes agglomirutions.
Par la suite las diffirents plans de diveloppement socio-iconomiques preconisaient une
approcha de poligique sanitaire consiquente, c'est a dire, une midecina dicentralise
intigrant l'aspect curatif et priventif, m!ai las conditions itakent loin d'etre riunias pour
atteindre les objectifs visis.
A pardr de 19741976 l'accent a ete mis sur une medecine de masse, preventive et mobile
intigrant de facon beaucoup plus claire l'aspect curati des soins. L'option fondamentaka
itait que la Niger devrait pratiquer une midecine globak et intOgrie, coordonnant Las
activitis priventives, iducatives, curaives et promotionneUes pour toutes ks communautis
at visant l'auto-suffisance sanitaire. Pour atteindre ct ideal, la politique de l'auto-
tncadrement sanitaire a iti developpe'c avec la formation des agents de sante' viUlageois sur
tout k territoire national dans k cadre du Projet Amiioaion de la Santc Rurale (1980-
1986).
Pour renforcer l'option fondamentalk de cette politique sanitaire qui se veut intigrie avec
la plcine paticipation de la communauti, la Niger a souscrit a plusieurs diclarations
rigionaks at internationales dont cellc d'Alma-Ata en 1978 oiu la politique des Souts de
Santc Prinaires (SSP) a iti initiee.
Le constat qui se digage apres plusieurs annies de mise en oeuvre de ces poliiques st:
*     Un taux pafliculierement ikvi de la moaati materneUa, infantile at infanto-
juvc'nik.
*     Une irrigulaoiti dans la disponibiliti des midicaments.
*     Un faibk taux de la couvefture sanitaire risultant d'une insufisanoc  de
l'occessibilit des populaions ax service de santc at d'une mauvaise utilizion d
ces derniers.
*     Un faible taux de couverlure vaccinale notamment pour Las enfants at ks femnus
en dge de procrier.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 13
*     Une inadequation entre I'accroissement demographique et les ressources mises' & la
disposition du secteur sanitaire.
*     Une grande disparite dans la repanition des ressources sanitaires entre zones
rurales et urbaines, entre activitis curatives et prfventives et entre secteur
hospitalier it non hospitalier.
*     Une insalubrite croissante du milieu
*     Une insuffisance de la sensibilisation de la popuation sur les problemes de santc.
*     Un iquilibre alimentaire de plus en plus fragile ayant des consequences sur l'eat
nutritionnel des groupes vulnerables ; particulierement les enfants en bas age, les
femmes allaitantes et lasfemmes enceintes.
- *   Une mauvaise gestion des services de sante et une insuffisance de la coordiation
de la participation communautaire et des autres aides exterieures.
* JUne insuffisance, voire absence de mecanisme intra et inter-sectoriels de
coordination des actions de santi pour une bonne intigration et gestion des
programmes sanitaires.
Au regard de ces constats, un changementfondamental s'impose qfln d'accilrer la misc
en oeuvre de la stratigic des soins primaires- et de l'objectif universel de la santi pour tous
d'ici l'an 2000 d'une part, de la prockmation contenue dans la constitution du 26
dicembre 1992 qui est de garantir k droit & la santi a tous las citoyens nigiriens d'autre
pail.
HI. ORIENTATIUN
Pour concritiser cette option, le gouvernement dicide de pnviligicr la prevention & trmvers
les actions d'infonmation et de sensibilisation des populations, Ik renforcement de l'hygicne
du milieu, l'accroissement du taux de couveiture vaccinale, la r'onientation des
investissements en vue d'une meilkure couveiture sanitaire du pays. Une attention
particuli2re sera podite aux actions de protection et de sauvegarde de la mire et de l'enfant
notamment dans Ik cadre d'une poitique approprile de planfication des naissances. La
politique de medicaments consistera h mettrc a la disposition des populations des
medicaments essentiels ginieiques de bonne qualit des prix accessibles; a amrliorer Is
outils de production et la poitique d'approvisionnemnent. Dans Ik cadre de cette politique,
ks couches sociaks ks plus difavorisies binificieront des effets de l'organisation de la
solidaiti nationalk dont l'object(f scra un recouvremcnt pariel et iquitable des cofts de
santi. Le programme deformation des agents de santE va Ire renaforcd ct tenir compte des
besoins riels. Le programme d'investissements dans lcs infrastructures sanitaires sera
poursuivi et diveloppipour assurer une meilleure dicentralisation et un rapprochement des
populations des centres de santi.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 13
III. OtIIECTIFS DE LA POLITIQUE SANITAIRE
L 'bjectif majeur de la politique est d'ameliorer l'etat de santc de la population d'ici l'an
2 0M)W. La realisation de cet objectif se fera a travers les objectifs intennudiaires. ci-apris:
1.    Rapprocher la population des centres de soinsa A ravers une dicentralisaon
effectve des services de sante baste sur k dbveloppement du district sanitaire, cadre
prioritaire pour la mise en oeuvre des soins de santi prmaires;
2.    Accroitre 1'efficacide du sysrOme de privention sanitaire base'e sur lc renforcement
de la vaccination, de l'iducation pour la santc dt de l'assainissement du mileu;
3.    Rationaliser la gestion des ressources humaines, nmatieriels dtfiaancicres mises A
la disposition des services de sante;
4.    Organiser la participation communautaire aux efforts de santc par la misc en place
de structure et. de regles de recouvrement partiel des co&4ts, appuyie d'une gestion
transparente, efficace et efficience;
5.    Assurer une meileure accessibilite et disponibilitc de prestations de qualitc a tous
les niveaux du systeme de sante;
6.    Rendre effective la collaboration inter-sectorielle pour la risolution des problmes
environnementaux ayant une incidence negative sur la santi;
IV. STRATEGIES DE DEVELOPPEMENT SANI
I. La Dicentralisation et la reorpanisation du Svstame de Santc
La dJcentralisation et la reorganisation du systeme de sante se traduiront par la misc en
oeuvre effective du "Scfnario de developpement sanitaire en trois phases' c'est-a-dire:
-   Ic niveau central chargc de l'appui stratdgique,
- Ie niveau intermc'diairc (departement) responsable de l'appui technique,
-   et le niveau district (arrondissement et commune) correspondant au soutien
opirationnel.
Cece approche est area sur le diveloppement effectif du district dont I'opinztionnaisation
nicessitera l'appui des deux (2) niveaux et la pleine panpon communautaire.
La dicentralsation permettra la criation de centres de gestion budgitaire au niveau district
at la misc en place de comitis de santi, d'organes de suivi dt de coordination des actions
dc diveloppement du secteur sanitaire en vue dc la pleine participation des populations A
la gestion at au controle des ressources.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 13
La pariicipation des populations devra itre organisie et reglementee et visera l'implication
des populations dans la gestion des services de santi et la prise de dicision concernant
leurs problkmes de sante dans l'optique d'une auto-responsabilisation.
2. Accroissement de la disoonibiliti des ressources
L'accroissement de la disponibiliti des ressources du secteur sante dipendra avant tout
d'une utilisation rationnele des ressources (humaines, mateinelles et financiares)
existantes, d'un apport substantiel de la part de la population, de l'itat et des autres
partenaires, de la mise en place de micanismes de gestion appropriis et d'une structure
efficace d'inspection et controle de la gestion des e'quipement et des moyens.
S'agissant des ressources humaines, la situation se caracterise non seulement par une
insuffisance globale, mais igalement une formation inadaptie aux besoins de la politique
des soins de santd prunaires; une grande mobiliti due aux affectations qui entrave la
continuite' des actions entreprises et une mauvaise repartition au detnment des zones
!          rurales oiu vivent les 80% de la population. C'est ainsi qu'en 1994, 33% des medecins et
40% des sage-femmes etaient concentris dans la seule ville de Niamey.
ni s'avre nicessaire de proceder a un rediploiement du personnel; au besoin, en recourant
i des mithodes incitaives en attendant l'avenement d'une politique de rigionalisation des
postes budgLtaires dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de la poiitique de dicentralisation.
Concernant les midicaments ils se prisentent giniralement sousforme de spicialitis sur
ie marchi t un cout inabordable pour la majoriti de la population. De plus la faible
couverture pharmaceutique at l'irrigularila de l'approvisionnement dues aux faibles
capacitis de gestion de L'O.N.P.P.C. riduisent leur disponibilite. n s'agirande reduire les
couits des midicaments pour les rendre accessibles au pouvoir d'achat des populations en
amiliorant la poltique d'approvisionnement et en utilisant des midicaments essentiels
gineriques tout en veiUant a la qualiti e a la formation du personnel pour garantir la
rationalisation de la prescription.
Dans k domaine du materiel, l'iquiti sera recherchee dans la ripanlition & travers
l'utiUsation de criteres adiquats et la difinition de nornes et quotas en fonction du statut
des formations stnitazres.
Des plans de diveloppement sanitaires seront ilaboris par districts, comme outil de gestion
et de rifirence pour les diffirents paflenaires. Leur mise en oeuvre se fera annueUement
, travers des plans d'action.
La participation communautaire aux couts des soins de santd organisie sous forme de
recouvrement partiel des co&ts, vise l'accroissement des ressources sanitaires et constitue
une condition sine qua non de la viabilite du systame de sante.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 13
3. Extension de la couverture sanitaire
Un accent parriculier sera mis sur l'extension geographique de la couverture sanitaire.
Cette extension permnettr  d'accroitre ipso facto l'accessibilite de la population aux
diffirentes structures de prestation. La prioriti sera accordie aux infrastructures du district
sanitaire qui s'adressent a la majorite de la population.Le renforcement du secteur
hospitalier et l'appoirt du secteur privi seront pris en considiration.
La couverture actuelle est de l'ordre de 32%. L'objectif visi est d'atteindre 45% dans un
rayon de 5 kIn d'une formation sanitaire d'ici I'an 2 000. Pour cefaire il convient de crier
de nouveUes infrastructures, de rihabiliter ceUles qui existent, d'amnliorer k cadre de
travail et la qualiti des prestations de services.
Ainsi chaque district sanitaire sera doti & travers un plan de couverture d'un riseau dit
cases de santi tenues par des agents de santi communautaires au niveau village, de ce
de santi intifr s. offrant un paquet minimum  d'activites, et d'un centre de rifirence
appeli hopital de district. Contrairement au centre midical actuel, l'h6pital de district
assure non seulement les activitis de midecine ginirale et de materniti mais igalement la
prise en charge des urgences chirurgicales et obstitricales. En fonction des situations
locales, des activitis foraines ou piriphiriques seront menies au niveau des Centres de
Santi Intigree (CSI) pour ieargir l'accessibiliti aux soins notamment priventifs.
Dans le secteur hospitalier, les hopitaux nationaux et les centres hospitaliers
dipartementaux assurent les soins tertiaires. Pour lks premiers ayant le statut d'EPA, il
s'agira de renforcer leur viabilite et pour les seconds de poursuivre la riflexion quant a
leur transformation en Etablissements & Caractare Administratif (EPA.)
S'agissant du secteur privi, il occupe une faible part dans la couverture sanitaire et reste
pour l'essentiel concentri dans la capitale. Tout en rieglementant l'ouverture des
itablissements privis a travers un code de sante publique, pour garantir la qualiti des
prestations, des mesures d'encouragement seront envisagies pour promouvoir le secteur
privi sanitaire au Niger.
4. Formation du Personnel
La riussite de toute politique en matiare de sante ripose en grande partie sur Ic
diveloppement des ressources humaines. Ainsi pour disposer d'un personnel sufisant et
qualifli, l'accent sera mis sur la fonmation de base a travers les trois itablissements de
formation i savoir la Faculti des Sciences de la Sante, l'Ecole Nationale de Santi Publique
de Niamey et Zinder. La revision des programmes de formation de ces icoles sera
poursuivie de facon a les adapter aux besoins de santi.
La spicialisation des cadres a tous les niveaux se poursuivra en donnant la priotci a
l'ouverture grogressive de diffirentes sections de sWicialisation sur place pour riduire Ik
coCa de formation et mieux adapter la spicialisation au hesoins du pays.



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 13
La reorganisauion de la gestion de laformation continue et l'intensification de la fortaiion
en cours d'emploi du personnel s'averent nicessaires. A ce niveau, il s*agira de renforcer
d'abord les acquis de Centre National de Diveloppement Sanitaire (CNDS) et de la
Circonscription Midicale de Formation et de Recherche (CIMEFOR).
Au niveau district, les iquipes cadres binificieront d'une formation en gestion et
organisation des services de santi, couplie d'un suivi sur le terrain. Laformation-pour une
mise & niveau en matiere de prise en charge des urgences chirurgicales et obstitricales sera
assuree.
Au niveau le plus operationnel tous les agents binificieront d'uneformation en stratigie
plainte-traitement qui leur permettra d'assurer une meileure pnse en charge des
demandeurs de services et une prescription plus rationnelle des midicaments essentiels
giniriques.
A tous les niveaux, un accent particulier sera mis sur l'amilioration du comportement des
aEents de santi face aux malades et sur lks principes diontologiques.
5. LUAmilwtion de la Oualiti des Services
L'amilioration de la qualiti des soins concernera & lafois-les soins curatifs, priventifs et
promotionnels. Ces soins respecteront lks caractiristiques des soins de santi primaires.
L'amiioration du plateau technique de l'hopital de district sera assurie. Dans le domaine
curatif, la globaliti, l'intlgration at la contipuiti des soins sera assurie a travers des
structures dicentnulisies & tous lPs niveaux d'activitis pour satisfaire ks besoins de santi
des populations at ripondre rationnellement a kur demande.
En matiere de soins priventifs, las groupes & risques, (mere et entfant) feront l'objet d'une
attention particulire a travers des activitis intigries de suivi pri et postnatal, -de
consultations des nourrissons, des mesures de vaccination, de rehabilitation nutritionnelle
et de planification familiale.
L'amilo,tion de l'itat nutritionnel des groupes vulnirables s'obtiendra a travers
l'ilaboration  et la mise en oeuvre des programmes concertis et inter-sectoriels
d'approvisionnement en micro-nutriments essentiels pour parer aux carences majeures
teUes que l'Avitaminose A at las Carences lodies, las Malnutritions Protiino-inergitiques.
La surveilance communautaire de la croissance det enfants appuyera cette action.
En matiere de plan&fication familialk, lk faiblk taux actuel de 4,4% (EDSN 1992) de
privalence contraceptive sera sign&ficativement rehaussie a 7%  par l'intigraton des
activites, la sensibilisation at k marketing social par voie midiatique at des discussions
dirigies avec lks populations. Ces actions seront complities par celles de promotion de
l'aUaitement maternel ainsi qua du bien etre familial.



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 13
La promotion de l'hygiene du milieu et son assainissement sefera sur la base de stratigies
definies dans le Code d'hygiene et d'assainissement de concert ayec les secteurs connexes
concernes et la pleine participation des populations.
6. Lutte contre la maladie
En matiere de surveillance et de controk des maladies notamment transmissibles la prioti
sera accordie aux affections infectieuses et parasitaires sivissant sous forme endemo-
epidimique et particulierement meurtrieres (QghldiMe infections respiratoires aiguij.
maladies diarrbiiaues d'une part et meningit  cho    d'autre part) et aux maladies
sexueUement transmissibles et Ic SIDA (MSTISIDA).
Concernant le SIDA un accent particulier sera mis sur la privention des transmissions
sexuelle, sanguine et peri-natale. Ces actions seront appuyees par des mesures relatives h
la promotion de l'information, l'education, la communication a travers lks medias,la
sensibilisation des compatriotes se rendant en exode, l'encadrement des groupes a nisque,
l'equipement et l'extension des centres de dipistages ainsi que l'eaboration d'une
ligislation en matiere de prise en charge des cas, de don de sang et des problames
d'ethique y affirent.
En matzare de vaccination la definition d'une nouvelle approche strategique combinant les
actions des services fixes avec des actions decentrais6es viendront accroitre la couverture
vaccinale des mres et des enfants. L'objectif est d'atteindre 80% de couverture vaccinalk
chez ks enfants de 0-S5 ans et chez ks femmes en age de procrier & l'an 2000. Une
attention particuliere sera accordie aux maladies cibles du programme Elargi de
Vaccination (rougeok, tetanos, poliomyelite, coqueluche, tuberculose) .
L'objectif d'trradication de certaines maladies (onchocercose, dracunculose,bilharziose,
lpre, poliomyilite) sera poursuivi et mime atteint dans certains cas d'ici l'an 2000.
7. Approvisionnement et diszonibiliti des Midicaments Essentiels sous Nom G6n6naue
Cette poltique vise a rendre disponiblk ks midicaments essentiels giniriques , travers des
structures adiquates d'acquisition, de distribution et de contrOle tel qu'inonci dans la
declaration de poLitique pharnaceutique Nationale. Cela suppose une restructuraion de
l'O.N.P.P.C. pour en augmenter l'effcaciti at la crEaion d'un corps d'inspecteurs de
phannacie et laboratoires.
8. Information Communication dt Education pour la Santc (IEPS)
Le changement de comportement favorable a la promotion de sante reposera
essentiellement sur le dlveloppement d'une strategic intEgri d'iducation pour la santc, base
commune & tous ks prognunmes de santc. Cette gestion se fera t travers:
-     la fonnation dt k recyclage du personnel en IEPS.



ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 13
la mise en place des matiriels d iquipements dans les structures rJgionales
et sous-rigionales d'EPS.
-     la production et la diffusion des su1.ports iducat(fs adoptis intgraAgt tous ks
messages cles & transmettre aux diffirents groupes cibks.
Une inigration ctlou une coordination des moyens et des strutures intervenang dams ce
domaine serarecherchie pour accroftre l'effcaciti des precations.
V. POLJIIQUE DEINANCEMENT
La pait du budget allouee i la santi est constante depuis ks indipendances, ellc reprisente
5 a 6 % du budget gdniral de l'Et. Face h l'inflation, la dvaluation, lafoale pression
dimographique, ce budget se rivlk htis insuffisant pour couvnr lks besoins de santi des
populatins.
Dans k cadre de la powlque de financement l'objectif vise' est la recherche d'un
pastenariat entre l'Eat, ks popuklions, ls privis t ks partenaires au diveloppement ofl
d'accroftre las ressources consacris au secteur et assurer la pirenniti des actions qui serent
eatrpnses.
5-1   Etat d Co&ecivitis
a)    Dans k cadre du pailenariat k r6la de l'Etat sera d'agir sur las disiquilibres
ri&nauz defigancement afin de gauuntdr l'iquiti ct lajustice sociale. Pendant la piriode
1995-2VO, lEtat cherchera h consacrer 6 a 10 % du budget ginimr au financement des
activiis de sad qui seront repaius sur la base des besoins rigionaux.
b)    Les CoUectivitis locales qui oat de tout tamps participi aufluancement de la santi,
.ais sous une fonne quasin/formellk, doivent standardiser kur pancipation en versant
clique anne ua pourcaentage significf du budget de la coUectiviti au Distnct. L 'objecif
ea d      'aeindre pendant la piriode du plan de Diveloppement Santaire un pourcentage de
SA 8 % du budget de la CoUcltiviti.
5-2   Le  b    do
A/In d'aurr wa meileure prize en chuage et compUtar ks actions de l'EAat dt des autres
intrnexanta am fmancemean, la particmiptiox flanci,re des populaions scra recherchie
& tuwer la poiique lc recouvrcment des cofits des sohns de santi.
La recouvrement des coUts est lafonne de pariipation communautair difinia dans la loi
sur Ilc recouvrement partil des coaits des soins de santi dans la milieu non hospitalaer.
L'apdriance manie dans lks zones tests a pennis de dicouvrir lks avantages et lks
ixconvEnients, de cerlaines mEthodes de recouvrement qui pourront ftre vulgarisies au
aiveau da l'ensemblk de La population.



ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 13
Le choix de la methode a appliquer sera laisse 4 l'appreciation de la population. Quelque
soit la mithode de paiement, le recouvrement des coats s'est aviri un outi efficace de
perennisation des prestations des soins avec une nette amilorntion de l'accessibilit; aux
soins populations.
a loi difinissant la politique de recouvrement de co(*tpernet non seulement de recouvrer
es couts au niveau desformations sanitaires mais aussi d'utiliser cesfonds par les services
te santi pour I'amilioration des prestations de santi.
lfin d'organiser La participation communautaire et la gestion des services de santi, des
omitis de sante seront mis en place et des textes servnt adoptis pour preciser leur cadre
V'intervention.
lu niveau hospitalier, une rivision de la twafication et de l'organisation s*vere necessaire
)our un meilleur recouvrement des couts de sente en milieu urbain. De mime,
l'organisation de mutuelles au niveau de l'Administration permettra de faire parficiper
effectivement les fonctionnaires a la prise en couts des soins de sente en assurant Ie
recouvrement du pourcentage qui leur est imputable (20%) conformiment aux textes en
vigueur.
5-3   Les Particuliers
Les particuCiers nationaux et itrangers, les ONG et les Associations participeront au
financement de la santi a travers la poursuite des investissements pour la rihabilitation des
infrastructures existantes et l'ameioration de la qualiti des soins. Is participeront
igalement ia l'extension de la couverture par l'ouverture de nouveaux itablissements privis
de soins ripondant a des normes d'implantahon et une riglementation approprie.
La mobilisation de moyens financiers dicoulant du principe de la "Zakatn sera expinmenti
au pmfit des hopitaux.
i-4 Les Partenaires au DiveloDpement
' Jappui extirieur continuera & itre soliiciti tant pour les in vestissements que pour l'achat
(es medicaments et la formation. En effet, la persistance de la crise iconomique et le
enchirissement des midicaments dt des soins de santi apres la divaluation du FCFA ont
Pour consiquence l'amenuisement des moyens que l'Etat peut ruisonnablement consacrer
zu secteur santi. C'est pourquoi le soutien extiieur en tant que compliment des efforts
-onsentis par l'Etat et la population est indispensable pour maintenir et surtout ameliorer
es prestations dans k secteur. Ces appuis doivent &tre coordonnis par k Ministere de la
;anti Publique et orientis pnodtairemcnt vers la misc en oeuvre du Plan de
Wveloppement Sanitaire 1994-2000.



ANNEX 6
Page 13 of 13
VI. LEGISLA TION
Un effort particulier sera consenti au cours de la periode pour combler l'insuffisance
actuelle dans le domaine de la legislation et la riglementation. Ainsi, i est prdvu
l'elaboration et/ou l'application:
- d'un code de la sante publique
- du code d'hygiene publique
- d'une reglementation sur:
* la medecine et la pharnacopee traditionnelle,
* le recouvrement des cou2ts des soins de santi,
* la production, l'importation, la commercialsation et l'utaluition des
medicaments
* l'organisation ginerale de la sante, etc...
VIl. CONCLUSION
La pre'sente declaration de politique sanitaire definit les grandes lignes d'une mission
exalante.et de grands difis a relever. II est propose d'entreprendre des actions vigoureuses
s'artculant autour de la decentralisation du systeme de sante a travers la strategie de soins
de santi pnimaires, avec un accent particulier sur la prevention, la protection de groupes
cibles, la participation organisee de la population au financement des couts de sande et la
gestion rationnelle des ressources.
Les effets conjugues de 1'extension de la couverture sanitaire, de l'amrioration de la
qualiti des soins et du renforcement de la medecine preventive assureront ineluctablement
une amelioration des indicateurs de santd.
Pour assurer une riussite des intentions proclamies et des objectifs diJinis, un systeme de
suivi/ivaluation sera mis en place. n permettra de mesurer periodiquement les progris
r&olisis dans la mise en oeuvre de la prEsente politique, d'en degager les succas et Ics
faiblesses, et d'y apporter les ri  ventucs.



ANNEX 7
Page I of 17
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Economic Analysis
With input from the public expenditure review mission, in the field at the same time as the health
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, and in collaboration with a health economist from the World Health
Organization, an economic analysis of Niger's National Health Sector Development Plan (PDS) was
carried out as an integral part of the project preparation process. This analysis, which evaluated the
appropriateness, affordability, feasibility and cost-effectiveness of reforms, approaches and activities
envisaged in the PDS, was carried out in conformity with guidelines issued by the World Bank's Human
Development Department (HDD), entitled Economic Analysis in the Population, Health and Nutrition
Sectors: A Conceptual Frameworkfor Task Managers, by Alexander Preker, January 2, 1996. In line
with the strategy agreed between the Bank and the Government to design the proposed operation around
a sector investment program (SIP) approach, Niger's entire program (vs. the IDA-financed project) was
the object of this economic analysis.
Linkages with Economic and Sector Work
Country objectives for Niger, reflected in IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), are to
strengthen economic competitiveness, and reduce poverty by reversing the downward trends in per capita
incomes and improving social indicators. Specific objectives for the social sectors are to improve
primary school enrollment from the current low level of 29 percent to 35 percent by 1999, and to
increase basic primary health coverage from 32 to 45 percent by 2002. This latter target is taken directly
from Niger's PDS. The strategy for attaining CAS objectives is based on four major building blocks: (a)
addressing long-term human capital (including poverty alleviation) and natural resources issues; (b)
building public and private sector institutions to promote private sector based growth; (c) increasing
efficiency of public resource management; and (d) supporting actions to accompany the CFA franc
devaluation. IDA's health SIP objectives and strategies are congruent with the CAS. Indeed, the policy
reforms and the investments envisaged in the PDS render the proposed SIP a unique instrument for
addressing key elements of the CAS objectives.
The Policy Framework Paper (PFP), agreed between the Bank, the International Monetary Fund
and the Government of Niger in April 1996, is closely linked to, and supportive of Niger's PDS, and
consistent with the Bank's health sector dialogue. In full endorsement of the objectives laid out in the
PDS, the PFP calls for the demonopolization and restructuring of Niger's ONPPC, with a view to
improving the affordability and availability of essential generic drugs to the entire population and to
opening up the market to private competition. It also calls for a doubling of the health share of the public
general budget over the next three years.
A public expenditure review mission visited Niger in April 1996, and focussed particularly on
the health sector, as a priority.  This mission evaluated budget and expenditure allocations and
recommended ways in which these might be reoriented to be more reflective of PDS objectives and
strategies. Implementation of these allocations will be monitored during the life of the project. This
mission also prepared estimates of investment and recurrent costs of implementing the PDS over the next
5 years and highlighted opportunities for cost minimization. In addition, human resources implications



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 17
of PDS implementation were assessed jointly with MOPH, taking into account limits on new
recruitrnents specified in the PFP, and a plan of action for addressing these implications was prepared by
MOPH and discussed and agreed during negotiations. Under the proposed project, this PER process will
be institutionalized. MOPH capacity will be developed to undertake periodic reviews of budgets, costs,
expenditures, financing and human resources needs. Dialogue with Ministry of Finance and with MOPH
on the process and results of the health sector public expenditure review was carried out jointly with the
health mission.
The Niger poverty assessment, A Resilient People in a Harsh Environment, highlights improved
access to primary health (and other social) services as an important component of a poverty strategy.
This report endorses the objectives and orientations of the PDS and recommends that Niger be supported
in its implementation. With regard to affordability of services, the report underlines the importance of
strengthening capacity to procure essential generic drugs on the international market to minimize their
cost to the public, and, as well, the importance of ensuring that cost recovery initiatives will not inhibit
utilization of health services by Niger's most vulnerable groups: women, children and the poor. The
proposed IDA operation will support efforts to these ends.
The policy framework for the health sector is deemed to be adequate, given Niger's health
problems and issues, and given, as well, financial and capacity constraints. The main components of the
PDS aim to: (a) improve the quality of existing services and extend service coverage from 32 to 45
percent; (b) improve the availability and affordability of essential generic drugs; (c) improve sector
efficiency through strengthening and decentralization of key management functions; and (d) expand
sector capacity through better utilization of non-governmental sector capacity. As described earlier in
this section, the policy framework is fully coherent with the macroeconomic dialogue.
Analysis of Alternatives Guiding Project Design
Health vs. Non-Health Investments. It has not been feasible, within the framework of the work
undertaken for the proposed IDA operation, to examine the relative health benefits of health sector vs.
non-health sector investments. The main option would lie in the field of education, with focus on
expanding primary education with a particular focus on girls. As a practical matter, such investments
should not be seen as alternatives to health sector investments in Niger, because the Bank and other
donors wish to finance education investments in exactly these areas regardless of the investments being
undertaken in the health sector. Both basic education and basic health services investments and
development programs are needed, and are not in competition for donor funds. Another option would be
a broad-based attack on food security and nutrition issues. Nutrition services are included within the
minimum package of activities (PMA) specified in the PDS and will be supported under the IDA
operation. Food security issues merit greater attention, as is indicated in the above-mentioned poverty
assessment. The PDS lies entirely within the responsibility of MOPH to implement and so the proposed
IDA investment is not the appropriate vehicle for this.
Alternatives within the Health Sector. Several alternatives for investment strategy within the
health sector were considered.
The Status-Quo Alternative. It is reasonable to assume that maintaining the status quo in the
sector would result in a further deterioration of the already poor provision of health services to the
general public: (a) consumers in rural areas would not gain access to acceptable health services; (b)
quality of health services, particularly at the primary level, would remain very low; (c) the lack of
information and low levels of meaningful community participation would continue to hamper rational



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 17
decision-making by consumers and would not prompt improved client orientation and accountability of
the health system; (d) expenditures by private households on traditional healers and drug peddlers could
not be recouped in favor of better services; and (e) preventive and promotional (public health) services,
such as immunization or vector control, would continue to be supplied below optimal levels.
Indirect vs. Direct Interventions. An important theme in the PDS is the gradual reorientation of
Government interventions and expenditures away from direct supply of services towards indirect
interventions that stimulate the actors for better health at the household and community levels to
encourage increasingly healthy behavior, whether through health promotion, regulatory action, or
provision of funds as close as possible to the operational level, rather than through a heavy, vertically-
oriented bureaucracy. An orientation towards demand variables is evident in policy changes in favor of
decentralization and community participation in strategic management and management of resources.
This will imply a considerable evolution in the institutional culture of MOPH, which is,still excessively
centralized and vertical in its organization of programs and services.
Supply Options for Broad Access to Health Services. The private-for-profit sector is not a
meaningful option, for the present and foreseeable future, for substantially expanding access to basic
health care, especially in the less densely populated rural areas. Private-for-profit care in urban areas,
both through drug sales and through establishment of private practices, does show some potential and
MOPH, in its letter of sector development policy outlines its vision for exploiting this potential. The
drafting and adoption of phannaceutical law will permit the private sector to compete in the drug sector,
with some regulation. This being said, the market failure of the private sector must be kept in the
forefront. Health services, particularly those of a public health/preventive nature, are not lucrative.
Neither are the sale of essential generic drugs, compared to brand-name and luxury pharmaceutical
products. The public mission of basic services provision does not make for meaningful substitutability
of private for public care in a poor country like Niger except in certain very specific situations such as
providing for the wealthiest members of the community in the urban area.
Private voluntary organizations have historically been weak in Niger, but MOPH has recently
changed its perspective by welcoming NGOs as partners. In this light, the private voluntary sub-sector
should be seen not as an alternative, but as a complement to public sector provision, and as a factor likely
to grow in importance in the future. Under the proposed operation health initiatives of community-based
organizations in support of objectives laid out in district health plans will be pursued through contracting
arrangements.
Recent reform has transformed the three national hospitals and two schools of public health into
"etablissements public a caractere administratif", thus granting them financial and managerial autonomy
and status as essentially "contractors" to MOPH.   This could provide these institutions with great
opportunity to achieve improved efficiency and financial sustainability, but this can only be done with
sufficient management capacity. The proposed operation will support and nurture this process. The
legal status of peripheral facilities (CSI) is a topic that is being discussed and pursued. Experimentation
in the country on according them an association or cooperative status (vs. their current status as public
facilities) is being pursued and should bear interesting results.
Fiscal and Financial Impact
Program Costs. The total cost of PDS implementation over the next five years is estimated at
about US$275 million equivalent, of which US$135million equivalent is for investment and US$140
million equivalent is for recurrent costs. Over 75 percent of total costs will support district (basic and



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 17
first-referral) health services. Appendix 1 to this Annex provides detailed costs and the basis for
assumptions and unit costs.
Program Financing. Government is expected to contribute US$116.4 million equivalent over
the program period, of which US$7.8 million for investments and US$108.6 million for recurrent costs.
Local administrative budgets (collectivites locales) will contribute some US$5.7 million for investment
(US$3.1 million equivalent) and recurrent (US$2.6 million equivalent) costs. In addition, revenues
generated from cost recovery are estimated to finance some US$10.4 million equivalent of recurrent drug
costs. These estimates are based on MOPH's health financing policy, as proposed in the PDS (and
supported in the PFP), which specifies that: health's share of the State recurrent budget should increase
from its current (1996) level of 6.6 percent to 10 percent by the year 2000; that a minimum of 5-8
percent of local administrative budgets should be allocated to health; and that revenues generated from
cost recovery should eventually cover 100 percent of drug costs at the primary level, and a progressively
smaller percentage for the higher levels of care. IDA will contribute US$40.0 million equivalent, and the
balance of PDS costs (US$103.0 million equivalent) will be covered by the various external partners
active in the sector (multilateral and bilateral agencies and NGOs), as laid out in their program
commitments. MOPH's challenge will be to manage effectively external aid coming into the sector and
to channel it directly to cover activities included in the PDS. Given the quality and appropriateness of
the PDS document, donors have expressed willingness to contribute to its objectives and are keen to
achieve better coordination in the sector. Annual review meetings of Program costs and financing (para.
3.27 of SAR), and a possible Donors' Round Table in 1997 will be important vehicles for this work.
Financial Sustainability. By the end of the initial five-year period, recurrent costs of health
system functioning (encompassing already existing and incremental recurrent costs) will amount to about
US$33 million equivalent annually. National contributions to recurrent costs by the end of the Program
period are projected to exceed this amount, encompassing the annual financial participation of
Government (US$24.8 million equivalent), local administrative budgets (US$0.8 million equivalent) and
revenues generated from cost recovery (US$5.4 million equivalent, covering virtually 100 percent of
annual recurrent costs). These estimates are based on the assumption that the projected financial
contributions of the various national partners, as laid out in the PDS will in fact be realized. This
objective is feasible but at the same time, a challenge, and will be monitored very closely over the
Program period. It must be noted that, given Niger's very precarious economic and financial situation,
implementation of an eventual second phase of the PDS will require the support of external partners over
the medium-term. The health financing policy laid out in the PDS is cognizant of this very real
constraint and takes into account the programmed contributions of external partners, including NGOs,
who have contributed, and will continue to contribute both to investment and recurrent costs.
These estimates are tentative, at best, and provide only a basis for continued monitoring and
refinement in light of experience. The public expenditure review and health missions provided an
opportunity to collect information and establish a data base on costs and financing of the PDS. This
work represents an important, albeit initial, step. A crucial next step will be the ongoing review and
refinement of program costs, objectives and financing plans in light of experience. The PDS, with
assistance from the proposed project, will strengthen MOPH capacity in programming, budgeting and
financial planning, monitoring and evaluation to this end. An important instrument in monitoring and
evaluating program sustainability will be the annual reviews of program performance, which will review
Program costs and financing (actual and projections) and pace of implementation. Depending on
Program experience and perspectives for the future any one or several of these variables may well be
revised to ensure the feasibility and financial sustainability of Program content.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 17
In June 1995 a law was passed requiring that cost recovery be applied at the primary health care
level. Based on a number of pilot activities, mechanisms for cost recovery are being refined and will be
extended nationwide during the initial five-year period of the PDS. The goal of cost recovery is to
recover 100 percent of the costs of drug stock replenishment at the primary level. This goal is based on
experience thus far in many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. A number of inputs are necessary to
contribute to successful cost recovery, among which: the establishment of appropriate pricing
mechanisms for essential generic drugs, in coordination with the private sector, and the refinement of
tools and mechanisms for the management of drug stocks and for the collection and management of
revenues generated from cost recovery. The correct application of criteria to exempt true indigents from
fees will also be a challenge. Close monitoring and evaluation, supplemented by operational research to
be supported under the project, will support a learning process and allow finetuning to optimize cost
recovery results.  Until better information is gotten, it is estimated that cost recovery, once fully
operational, will cover 100 percent of drug costs at the primary level and 50 percent of drug costs at the
district hospital level.
Cost-Effectiveness
The 1993 World Development Report (WDR) evaluated the cost effectiveness of various health
interventions and found two clusters of selected interventions to be highly cost effective: (a) public
health interventions (immunizations, family planning, improvements to household environment, AIDS
prevention, and school-based services); and (b) clinical services (pregnancy related care, family
planning, STD prevention and control, control of tuberculosis, and prevention and treatment of diseases,
which most severely affect adult, infant and child mortality: acute respiratory infections, measles,
malaria and acute malnutrition). Africa region-specific economic analysis carried out in the context of
Better Health for Africa (BHA), has revealed that the transformation of these cost-effective interventions
into a minimum package of services, provided through a well-functioning district system, with proper
referral capacity, should (a) enable African countries to manage more than 90 percent of health care
demands; and (b) reduce the burden of disease by 30 percent.
Because of the time and cost involved, and because of the broadly similar epidemiological and
socio-economic conditions among African countries, in lieu of undertaking a separate cost-effectiveness
analysis, the preappraisal and appraisal missions compared Niger's minimum package of activities
(PMA) with minimum packages recommended by the Bank in WDR 93 and in BHA. Broadly speaking,
this analysis shows that Niger's PDS is in line with recommendations of WDR '93 and with BHA for
achieving cost effectiveness, both through its choice of interventions (minimum package of services
responds fully to health priorities of Niger and include the most cost-effective interventions) and through
its proposed mode of delivery (GON has opted for a district health system). The results of this analysis
are presented in Appendix 2 to this Annex.
Discussions with the Government of the results of this economic analysis have brought to light
the following insights, which have served to finetune project design and interventions and which also
should serve to guide the transformation of the national and district PDS into a detailed Program, which
would be feasible, affordable, and cost-effective. In summary the cost-effectiveness analysis has
culminated in the following recommendations:
* There is scope for further consolidation and prioritization of the minimum package of activities to
respond more fully and effectively to Niger's priority health concerns: maternal and child health
care.



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 17
*  There is also scope for minimizing costs of infrastructure through: (i) minimization of unit costs; and
(ii) elimination of plans to create district hospitals in chef lieux des departements, which already
have CHD.
*  Scarce human resources can be more effectively mobilized and used through redeployment and
through the provision of specialized training to nurses and other paramedical staff to work in district
hospitals.
*  Phasing of rehabilitation and extension activities can be revised to prioritize the most cost effective
interventions, as follows: improving existing services, and phasing construction of new services,
starting with facilities that would cover the largest populations: CSI 2 (serving population of 10,000
within a 5 km radius), CSI 1 (serving population of 5,000 within a 5 km radius), and CSI 2 and CSI I
serving populations within a 10 km radius.
*  For reasons of equity, investments in extension of service coverage should be targetted with a view
to bringing all regions up to the 45% coverage target rather than investing heavily in areas that have
already achieved this target.
*  A fuller assessment of constraints and risks will equip MOPH to plan realistically and to develop
strategies to manage and overcome such risks
*  Decentralization and partnership initiatives will provide considerable opportunity for expanding
capacity and for more effective utilization of capacity. However, they also present considerable
risks.
Sensitivity Analysis Linked to Major Risk Factors
Political Stability and Ownership of the PDS. The ICR on the first health project noted that
political instability during the life of the project caused activities in all sectors to slow down and even
come to a standstill during the various crises inherent in the process. In addition, and more specifically,
the high turnover of health ministers during the life of the project (8 ministers in 9 years) caused
numerous delays, as each new minister revisited and questioned project objectives and implementation
progress. The coup d'etat, which took place in January 1996, precipitated another change in ministers;
and the presidential elections, recently completed may result in more changes at the ministerial level, and
possibly even among some of the more highly placed technical staff. While this is likely to generate
some disruption costs, it is not likely to threaten in a serious way the ownership of the PDS. Thanks to a
very participatory process in the preparation of the PDS, and, in addition, to the decentralized (district)
planning and programming process, ownership of PDS objectives is broad-based and strong, among
many important stakeholders, including: the population, decentralized MOPH personnel (both service
providers and decision-makers), local authorities, and NGOs.
Institutional Resistence to Reforms. There is some resistence within MOPH to reforms
envisaged under the PDS. Most particularly, decentralization of management and administration, and
integration of programs and services, is seen as threatening by some senior officials in MOPH central
level, who feel that these initiatives may cause them to lose resources and decision-making authority to
the lower levels of the system. Strong ownership by many important stakeholders (described above) and
the continued involvement of those resistent to impending changes to highlight opportunities in their
evolving roles are strategies to mitigate this risk.
Donor Assistance. PDS implementation will necessarily be dependent on external assistance to
the health sector at least for the medium-term. In reaction to the coup d'etat of January 1996, virtually
all bilateral assistance was suspended. However, now that the July 1996 elections are concluded, it is
expected that development of new projects will resume.  If donor assistance were not in fact
forthcoming, as is currently projected, the PDS may have to be scaled back to focus exclusively on



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 17
efforts to strengthen existing services so as not to exceed limited capacity to finance investment and
recurrent costs of the PDS. As noted earlier in this Annex, national capacity to finance the incremental
reccurrent costs generated by PDS investments would be adequate if all national financing sources
[general budget, local administrative budget, and communities through cost recovery] respect obligations
laid out in PDS. While a challenge, fulifilment of these obligations is feasible and will be closely
monitored. In the event national financing sources fall short of projections, investments will be cut back
accordingly.
Institutional Capacity Analysis.
The quality and effectiveness of Niger's health system are seriously constrained by weak
management capacity. Roles and responsibilities for management and decision-making are excessively
centralized, particularly with regard to management of resources. Those best placed to make informed
decisions on the optimal use of resources (i.e., those at the more decentralized levels of the system) have
neither the authority, the means, nor the essential skills for carrying out key management functions. In
fact, there is a lack of capacity at all levels of the system to carry out functions which are crucial to the
efficiency and effectiveness of health sector operations, notably: planning, programming and budgeting;
resource mobilization and aid coordination; management of human, physical and financial resources;
training and supervision -- both of a technical and of an administrative nature; quality control; and
monitoring and evaluation. Furthermore, roles and responsibilities at each level of the system for
carrying out key management functions have not been clearly defined (although it must be noted that
recent initiatives are addressing this issue.).
Management tools, systems and processes are ambiguous and underutilized, if they exist at all,
thus further inhibiting sector effectiveness. There are neither national norms nor rational criteria for the
effective and equitable allocation of sector resources. Budget allocation is based on past patterns without
due consideration of real needs and equity concerns. Management of material and financial resources is
inadequate due to the lack of a performing accounting system at all levels of the system. There is no
system or tools for the evaluation of health personnel. The setting up of a National Health Information
System (SNIS) with the assistance of USAID has been a major contribution to improved sector
management.  Established at all levels of services its objective is the collection and analysis of
information, its wide dissemination and its effective utilization in management and decision-making. It
provides information on the extent of health problems of Niger's population and key information to
facilite, at all levels of the system, the management, evaluation and improvements to program
performance. Considerable effort, however, will be needed to exploit fully the utility of this tool,
including: ensuring adequate human resources for its use; building capacity at DDS and district levels in
its use; and encouraging its full analysis and use in decision-making by managers of health facilities.
Community Participation and Intersectoral Coordination are basic principles of the primary
health care approach, embraced by Niger's health policy. Neither of these principles are as yet fully
applied, however, although efforts are underway to improve performance in this regard. With the
assistance of the first IDA-financed health project and that of USAID, pilot studies tested community
participation in the financing of primary health services. These studies have demonstrated, as is the case
in other countries, that community participation in the financing of health services and in the
management of collected revenues provides communities with some leverage in their demand for quality
services and incites the health system to be more client oriented and thus improve that quality. UNICEF
(through the application of its Bamako Initiative) and projects financed by other partners have also
applied various notions of community participation in the financing and management of primary health
services. From this experience, the MOPH is now challenged to develop a framework for eliciting and



ANNEX 7
Page 8of17
applying nationwide the participation of communities in the financing and management of primary
health services, in line with their comparative advantages, to render the system more accountable to its
clients. Again, considerable efforts are being initiated by MOPH to this end.
The National Health Committee and its extensions at the departmental, arrondissement and
commune levels (COTEDEP, COTEAR, COTECOM) (see para. 2.12 of SAR) have not sufficiently
focused on the review of health policy and its application. This is due primarily to two factors. First, its
mandate is intersectoral and holistic in nature, which does not permnit it to provide sufficient time to
focus exclusively on the health sector. Second, even in the application of its intersectoral mandate, the
lack of clear direction on how to focus on the key issues leaves it ill-equipped to carry out its functions
concerning the health sector.   While there is much scope for community participation, intersectoral
coordination and collaboration with other partners (NGOs, private-for-profit sector, academia, etc.),
particularly at the operational level, no organizational structure exists currently that would effectively
elicit and coordinate such partnerships.
Human Resources. While crucial to achieving national objectives of improving the quality and
coverage of services, many issues surrounding human resources for health severely dampen efforts in
this regard. Human resources for health are inadequate in terms of numbers (ratios of technical staff to
population are far below WHO standards) and distribution (80 percent of technical staff are in and
around Niamey). Their skills are inadequate due to a number of factors. Basic training curricula are not
well adapted to the real demands and responsibilities of service provision at the various levels of the
system in Niger. Neither does inservice training respond to the urgent needs to strengthen service
delivery quality. Health personnel are very demoralized: salaries are not received regularly; the system
for management and evaluation of human resources is excessively centralized and is not designed to
monitor performance and to reward or sanction such performance. The lack of a supervision system
leaves technical staff isolated and does not give them the opportunity for fine-tuning of their skills and
constructive feedback on their performance. Capacity for manpower planning is very low. Inadequate
systems and skills for human resources management render MOPH hard-pressed to compile the most
basic information on numbers of technical staff currently employed, their levels and allocation across the
country. The human resources implications of the new reforms envisaged under the PDS had not been
assessed, until the World Bank public expenditure review mission (April 1996) initiated this process.
This task is a first, crucial step in ensuring that the feasibility and pace of objectives to decentralize,
restructure and expand health services can be fully appreciated and amended in light of human resources
constraints and in reviewing and revising human resources policy and strategy to assure the success of
these reforms.
The PDS is essentially a capacity building program, which intends to address the myriad
weaknesses in management and institutional capacity described above. Among the most pertinent of its
capacity strengthening interventions are: strengthening and decentralization of strategic sector
management and management of sector resources, expanding sector capacity through more effective
utilization of non-governmental partners in sector management and support services and in service
delivery, and improving regulatory capacity and legal environment for more competition and lower
prices in the pharmaceutical sector. In addition, sector dialogue is well coordinated with macroeconomic
dialogue and thus not limited to MOPH but also, necessarily, encompasses Ministries of Civil Service,
Ministry of Finance and Plan and the High Commissioner in charge of Decentralization, all of whose
decisions and support of health sector reforms are crucial to their success.



ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 17
Poverty Alleviation Impact Analysis
A recent poverty assessment entitled, A Resilient People in a Harsh Environment: Niger Poverty
Assessment (April 3, 1996), presents a consensus among policymakers and development partners on a
three-pronged approach to poverty reduction: (i) sound macroeconomic policies that stimulate labor-
intensive and sustainable growth, (ii) better access to basic social services, and (iii) safety nets. Investing
in education and health (including nutrition and family planning) is the starting point to fulfilling the
second key element of the poverty reduction strategy. In Niger, greater human resource development
will help restore conditions for economic growth. Improving health by lowering the incidence of
infectious and parasitic illnesses, especially among children, and fertility by reducing demand for large
families, are critical to obtaining a strong path toward growth. Despite Niger's efforts to expand
investments in the social sectors, much remains to be done to increase access by the poor, who are most
in need. Expenditures need to be retargeted toward rural areas, where 80 percent of the poor live; and the
intra-sectoral expenditure allocations need to be retargeted toward the primary levels in both education
and health.
The poverty assessment strongly endorses Niger's 5-year health sector development plan (PDS),
noting that its strategy aims to reallocate resources to address the four imbalances in the health sector,
which weaken its efficiency: curative care versus preventive, hospital versus primary health care, urban
versus rural areas, and regional disparities. The above-mentioned report also highlights the following
aspects of PDS strategy, which are critical for poverty alleviation. All of these points will be pursued
and supported under the Program and Project:
*  Rural areas and areas with the worst health coverage and infrastructure should receive priority for
public investments and a larger share of current expenditures. Health personnel need to be given
incentives to relocate to rural areas.
*  MOPH  should be more effective and client-oriented through decentralization and increased
community participation.
*  Although an estimated package of health care can be provided in most low-income countries for
about US$8 per person, in Niger it costs more, given the immense size of the country and the
population dispersion.  The planned increase in the total government budget is an essential
prerequisite for basic health care services in Niger.
*  Efficient procurement and distribution of essential generic drugs across the country is a priority to
improve availability and keep costs low.
*  A law on cost recovery for primary health care has been passed. Studies in some countries,
including pilot trials in Niger, have shown that cost recovery schemes improve service utilization if
they incorporate improvements in service and quality, such as better drug availability, staff
upgrading, better deployment, and extended hours. Under the PDS, monitoring and evaluation
activities will be undertaken to assess its impact on the poor.
*  MOPH's intention to encourage the efforts of partners in health care (NGOs, communities,
academics and others) is likely to benefit the poor, as many of these partners target their activities to
areas of greatest need.
*  Careful monitoring of selected health indicators (both process and impact), supplemented by
operational research, beneficiary assessments and periodic evaluations, would enable MOPH to learn
from experience and improve basic service delivery to the poor.
*  Programs to provide universal access to safe water and to improve environmental sanitation should
be launched with community participation.



ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 17
The inclusion of all of these points in Niger's PDS demonstrate that this country's health strategy is
poverty sensitive.
Environmental Assessment
The Program will have a positive environmental impact through activities promoting human and
household waste disposal and sanitation. The health promotion activities by the health district teams and
community management committees will create greater community awareness of the measures needed to
protect the environment and keep public places (health facilities, schools, and markets) clean and
provided with basic sanitation facilities. In-service programs under the Program will include training of
clinical staff in proper procedures for handling and disposing of blood products, needles and other
hazardous materials and in mobilizing communities to improve the environment for better health. The
Program will also provide safe water supplies in all health facilities that it covers.
Performance Criteria for Monitoring and Evaluation
See Annex 8 of SAR.
Overall Judgement of Project Justification
Previous health missions have already acknowledged the quality of the PDS document, and the
appropriateness of its goals, objectives and strategies. It has also been confirmed that both the content of
Niger's minimum package of activities, and the system through which these services will be delivered
are in line with Bank's recommendations for the sector and thus economically justified. Our missions
have also noted, however, that national and district PDS goals appear to be very ambitious given a
number of constraints, including: timeframe, management and absorptive capacity, human resources
implications, recurrent financing implications. An important lesson learned from the implementation of
the first IDA-financed health project was the need to set goals and objectives that are cognizant of and
commensurate with implementation constraints. An important objective of this economic analysis was
thus to provide concrete guidance on where and how the costs of implementing the PDS might be
minimized, and how the effectiveness of proposed interventions could be maximized, and to provide
guidance on how to set priorities and phase interventions, in light of these constraints. This analysis also
highlights risks and suggests a process approach to minimization and better management of these risks.
Costs and financing of the PDS will need to be monitored closely; and objectives and activities should be
reviewed periodically in light of real constraints with a view to scaling them back, if necessary, and/or to
increasing the timeframe for their implementation to be more in line with Niger's absorptive capacity
and financing capacity.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 1 of 17
APPENDIX I a
Govemment's Provisional Prolections for Health Sector Financing (USS Million)
(assuming full respect of the financing plan presented In the PDS)
1997    1998   1999   2000   2001      TOTAL       2002  LIKELY COST CATEGORIES
I. INVESTMENT                                                  1997-2001
- MOPH a/                    1      1.4     2    2.4    1.7          8.5       1.4 construc./rehab./equipment
- Local Administration      0.3     0.7    0.8    0.7    0.6         3.1       0.6 construc./rehab.
- Donors                   16.3    28.4   32.5   26.8   20.3       124.3      16.3 construc./rehab./equipment
Sub-total I. a/        17.6    30.5   35.3   29.9   22.6       135.9      18.3
II. RECCURENT
A. GOVT. BUDGETh/        226.8   234.8  238.3  243.1  247.9       1190.9    252.8
. % share for health c/     8       9      9      10     10                   10 Salarles/drugs/superv. costs/
. Health rec. budget      18.1    21.1   21.4   24.3   24.8       109.7      25.3 maint. and operating costB
B.LOCALADMIN.d/          12.27   12.68   13.1  13.53  13.98        65.56    14.44
.% share for health e/     7.5     4.5    3.9    4.8    5.7                   5.8 Salaries of non scilied workers
. Amount for health       0.92    0.57   0.51   0.65    0.8        3.45      0.84 operating costs
C. COMMUN. cost rec. f/
H.N. level               0.66    0.66   0.66   0.66   0.66         3.3      0.66 Drugs
% of recovery             10      10    20       25     30                   35
amount                   0.06    0.06   0.13   0.16    0.2        0.61       0.2
C.H.D. level             0.99    0.99   0.99   0.99   0.99        4.95      0.99 Drugs
% of recovery             10      20     30     40     50                    50
amount                   0.1     0.2    0.3    0.4    0.5         1.5       0.5
H.D. level                0.3     0.5    0.7      1    1.2         3.7       1.4 Drugs
% of recovery             10      20     30    40      50                    50
amount                  0.03     0.1   0.21    0.4    0.6         1.34      0.7
C. CS.1. level             1      1.5    2.2    3.2   4.1           12        5 Drugs
% of recovery             20      40     60     80    100                   100
amount                   0.2     0.6   1.32   2.56    4.1        8.78        5
sub-total ll.C              0.39    0.96   1.96   3.52    5.4       12.23       6.4
Sub-total II. A,B,C       19.41   22.63  23.87  28.47   31.0       125.38    32.64
D. DONORS
contribution               4.0     3.9   4.1    4.1    2.6         18.7       2.1 Contractuals salarieu/drugs/
superv.rosts/operating costs
Sub-total II.         23.41   26.53  27.97  32.57  33.60      144.08     34.64
GRAND TOTAL I. & II.      41.01   57.03  63.27  62.47  56.20       279.98    52.94
Footnotes:
a/ Data for Govemment represent counterpart funds on investments In the health sector. The Programme d'InvesUsrement de
I'Etat 1996-1998 (September 1995) indicates that for year 1997 and 1998, the totals for MOPH and Donor are projected at
US$17.8 and US$14.8, respectively. Bank's estimates exceed these figures as they reflect those obtained from several donors
through Bank's interviews during the appraisal mission.
b/ Source: Ministere des Finances et du Plan. Programme d'Investfssement de I'Etbt 1996-98. September 1995. Data for 1999
2002 based on average estimate of 2 percent Increase throughout the period (staff estimate).
c/ Based on Govts PDS target of 10 percent by year 2000.
di Annual figures based on calculation of population growth and actual levels of contribution.
e/ Based on a 5-8 percent commitment to health from local administration [inv. + rec.].
f/ Percentages of recovery for each level of reference based on local cost recovery pilot tests, and sub-regional Bamako Initiative
experience



ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 17
APPENDIX I b
PDS Proaram Costs and Financing Plan by Year (USS Million)
1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     Total    2002
1997-2001
I. Government budget
- Investment                             1       1.4      1.9       2       1.5       7.8    1.4
- Drugs                                0.7      0.9       0.6      0.5      0.3       3.0    0.5
- Supervision costs                    2.3      2.4       2.5      2.5      2.5      12.2    2.5
- Maintenance operating costs          6.2      6.3       6.4      6.5      6.6      32.0    6.7
- Salaries                             9.8      10.4     12.3     13.4     15.4      61.3   15.4
Sub-total                   20      21.4    23.74    24.94     26.3     116.4   26.5
II. Local Administration
- Investment                           0.3       0.7      0.8      0.7      0.6       3.1    0.6
- Salaries                             0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.5    0.1
- Operating costs                      0.3       0.3      0.4      0.5      0.6      2.14    0.6
Sub-total                   0.7      1.1     1.34      1.3      1.3      5.74    1.3
Ill. Community
- Drugs                                0.5      0.6       1.4      2.9       5       10.4    6.1
Sub-total                   0.5      0.6      1.4      2.9        5      10.4    6.1
IV. Donors
- Investment                          16.3     28.4      32.5     26.8     20.3    124.3   16.3
- Salaries                            0.02     0.02      0.02     0.02     0.02       0.1   0.02
- Drugs                                3.1      2.9       2.8      2.8      1.2      12.8    .2
- Supervision costs                    0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2        1      .6
- Operating cost                       0.7      0.8       1.0      1.1      1.2      4.84    1.3
Sub-total                 20.32    32.32    36.56    30.92    22.92    143.04  18.42
RECURRENT COSTS                23.92    24.92    27.84    30.56    33.12     140.4  34.02
INVESTMENT COSTS                17.6     30.5     35.2     29.5    22.4    135.2   18.3
TOTAL GENERAL                41.52    65.42    63.04    60.06    55.52      275.6  52.32
Health Development Program  Costs 
40          (US$million)
35
30
25
2 0
1 5
10
0
1997    1998   1999   2000   2001
+~ nvestmrrnt costs   -Recurrent costj



ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 17
APPENDIX 1 c
Estimated Donors' Assistance to the PDS a/
(USS million equivalent)
Financiers                                                  Total
Bilateral Agencies:
ACDI                                                         2.3
Belgium                                                      7.2
GTZ                                                          1.3
The Netherlands                                              1.3
USAID                                                       40.0
Subtotal                                           52.1
Multilateral Agencies:
African Development Bank                                    13.5
IDA                                                         46.3
Islamic Development Bank                                     0.1
European Union                                               4.7
UNFPA                                                        1.8
UNICEF                                                       9.8
WHO                                                          1.7
Subtotal                                           77.9
Non-governmental Organizations:
Africare                                                     0.9
Care lnternational                                           1.0
Caritas                                                      0.1
HKI                                                          0.3
Subtotal                                            2.3
Total Donor's Assistance                                   132.3
a/ Estimates, final amounts will vary depending on donors' evolving position following elections in Niger, on
annual negotiations with donors and on the outcome of a health sector Round Table planned for 1997



ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 17
APPENDIX 2
Comparative table of minimum packages of care
Health system levelVPDS Program/        In PDS    In BHA Package       In WDR93 Package
Intervention or Service                  (Y/N)    and/or Priorities          (Y/N)
Y/N               Y-C Clinical
Y-P Public
and/or WDR Priorities
TECHNICAL PROGRAMS
A. PRIMARY CARE
1. Maternal and child health                 _           _
Ante-natal                         Y          Y                 Y-C
Delivery                           Y          Y                  Y-C
Post-natal                         Y          Y                 Y-C
Micro-nutrient supply              Y          Y                 Y-P
Family planning                    Y          Y                 Y-C
School health                      Y          Y                 Y-P
ORT                                Y          Y                 Y-C
Growth monitoring & promotion      Y          V                 N
Breast feeding                    .                    y        Y-P
2. Common ailments
Treatment/Referral                 Y          l                 2
Drugs/Supplies                     Y          V                 Y
First Aid/Referral                 Y          Y
Education on food selection & ;                        y        Y-P
preparation
Public and patient info.           Y          Y                 Y-P
3. Communicable disease control
Immunization
BCG                            Y          Y                 Y
EPI                            Y          Y                 Y
Yellow Fever                   N          N                  Y
Hepatitis B                    N          N                  Y
Preventive services
Onchocerciasis spray           Y          Y                 N
TB Chemo.                      Y          ?                  ?
Blood bank safety              y          3                 N
AIDS/STDs                      Y          Y                 N
Curative services
TB                             Y           Y                 Y
Leprosy                        Y          N                 N
I Basis trauma, malaria, diarrhea, local infection.
2 Assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma.
3 Not to imply 100% testing.



ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 17
Health system levelVPDS Program/            In PDS         In BHA Package        In WDR93
Intervention or Service                      (Y/N)         and/or Priorities    Package (Y/N)
Y/N            Y-C Clinical
Y-P Public
and/or WDR
Priorities
STD                             Y                 Y                   Y
ARI                             Y                 Y                   Y
Helminths                       Y                 Y                   Y
4. Water sanitation
Well digging                        Y                 Y                   N
Latrine construction                Y                 Y                   N
Piped water system                                    N                   N
Sewage system                       YN                                    N
Solid waste                         Y                 N                   N
5. Nutrition & dietetics
Nutrition education                 Y                 Y                   Y-P
Nutrition rehabilitation            Y                 Y                   Y-C (0-5 yrs.)
Diet therapy                        Y                 N                   N
Micro-nutrients
Vitamin A                       Y                 Y                   Y-P
Iodine                          Y                 Y                   Y-P
6. Health education & communication
Community health education          Y                 Y                   y-P
Printed materials                   Y                 ?                   ?
Drama and songs                     Y                 ?                   ?
Mass media                          Y                 Y                   Y
School health education             Y                 Y                   Y
B. SECONDARY CARE
General in-patient services         Y                 Y                  __
Mental health care                  Y                 N                   N
Limited care for chronic diseases   Y                 Y                   Y
TB treatment                        Y                 Y                   Y
C. TERTIARY CARE
4 Responsibility of Ministry of Public Works.
5 Maintenance after devolution.
6 Health education and communication interventions were included in the WDR interventions for alcohol, tobacco,
and school health.
7 Assessement, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma, other treatrnent as resources
permit.



ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 17
Health system levelUPDS Program/           In PDS         In BHA Package       In WDR93
Intervention or Service                     (Y/N)         and/or Priorities    Package (Y/N)
Y/N           Y-C Clinical
Y-P Public
and/or WDR
Priorities
Research & data collection         Y                 Y'                 Y
Cost recovery/Pricing              Y                 Y                  y-P
Quality control                    Y                 Y                  Y-P
SUPPORT PROGRAMS
A. DRUGS AND SUPPLIES                                         .
Selection/Quantification           Y                 Y                  Y-p
Procurement                        Y                 Y                  Y-P
Storage/inventory                  Y                 Y                  Y-P
Distribution                       Y                 Y                  Y-P
Rational drug prescription & use   Y                 Y                  Y-P
Drug regulation/Control            Y                 Y                  Y-P
NGO, private sector                N                 Y                  Y-P
B. CLNICAL LAB SERVICE                 _                 __
Promotion of safe blood            y                 ylu                N
C. MANTENANCE & REPAIR (M&R)
MOHSA-level unit                   Y                 Y                  N
District units                     V                 Y                  N
Norms for M&R/Equipment            N                 Y                  Y
Planning & M&R skills              N                 Y                  N
D. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(_  M                               _ _
Long-term planning                 Y                 V                  N
Training plans                     Y                 N                  N
Coordinating mechanism for         Y                 Y                  N
training/management development   _
Develop HRM capacity               Y                 Y                  N
Public health monitoring and surveillance provided outside tertiary care.
9 Drungs and supply services were included implicitly as part of the WDR essential care package.
' May not be a lab service; PDS foresees provision of safe blood BHA encourages promotion of safe blood but
does not see provision of safe blook as a proority intervention.



ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 17
Health system leveUPDS Program/             In PDS         In BHA Package        In WDR93
Intervention or Service                      (Y/N)         and/or Priorities    Package (Y/N)
Y/N            Y-C Clinical
Y-P Public
and/or WDR
Priorities
Employee relations strategy/pay     Y                 Y                   N
Computerized PMIS                   Y                 N                   N
Changing mix of staff               Y                 y                   y
Redeploying staff                   Y                 Y                   y
Changing training curricula         Y                 Y                   Y
Leadership/Supervision              Y                 Y                   N
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT/COORD.
Training staff in info. management  Y                 Y                   N
Establish district M&E capacity,    Y                 Y                   N
including at hospitals
Operational research                Y                 Y                   Y
Collection/dissemination of         Y                 N                   N
info./reports
Assist in district health plans   I                   _
Epidemiological data                                    
Monitoing/health finance
upport community management         N                 Y                   Y
m:4expMjohanne/niger/health2/ecoan.doc



Repubic Of NAe
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Key Nedth Swbw Phlunaie Idlm
OUJECTWU                                  ovum                              EPLENENTATON IMICATORS                           RMC  AND CRNCAL                  OUTCOESIMPACTS
R-            d                             (Go a,d Svice                                 ASSUMPTT                       (of            l
Ior p      )e mde)                        p        by ft pred)
1. hIus_  Quaid C              ow           Cost:   q S  UlUu                    1.e Aw  ofSim 5 ,eabd god e ed                    Construction Co rew I                      _a
ofic Noh Savle                     IDA Crdit        40.0 On                   M  of beNO  cws 1vctmd ai iq.ped by  ftrict    wbe eviwd awwidy i It                CoVWg:              %          %
u-ma0gI On Ioulwnai and            DONo:          $1t.0 Mion                                                                    d lop    r       _                G :                 15.0            31.4
_S*pot of no H_hl                  Got:    *       1 16.4 1                  OhAlk.:       RuIhb             Nw                 ih   d mross  e     d nTO                            24.4 432
Loal Adn.Wcmm.i: S16.1                                        c HO  Cl * CSI I    CJI i    CSlU1                                                   23.3            301
Gur    1   4        4         3      3            Nlrd rrws                         D4h-                44.7            402
-S"rb*   w     Al DWici       %fCm mt VdGto bbl cot 87.7%                T_rP    I   1        2        1 0     3      d     loc_ldto bf h_M  4ewMr                                25.01           43.8
%of dA lo Com   w       79.0%             3                    0        12      2
DM1      1   a      1        3       0               Scy of bcl TrAlg               L         _: b be _no --md
-311ralihainI P_4  ridmnal q mg      FW         S1  Uetd To:        4                    I   5       2        7      0            b                for uc G:
of H_ft.                                                                      Teib    4  24        *       36       *           mNnb wE be tv N    htug           T :nL
a Upg nLtieofM  oeupos&  hehaJth                                                             OdV   oo                           e 1 d d 
~~~~~~~LPUd/nh@5AiW5 Mid r  RPu35 Dhed
4dlktn  People. forBTOAMS            weanid awnVuc nowe locs                   Rehab-36                                                                             Dt
hi e        fo nonb ai h        i          Nr Coiukbmlti43                                   4
q sidb d kor hieelucs.
, t   Mb d h_h                                                                                                          Cm  bMO*N*
lo abI  Sin to dw                                                                                                       G     :
m psdus dt WvIm Tdst
Ii. PD5. PrJet am   5 dei e.              _        __                  _        _
h Trin wid ul:sleft    d1 dsev            l.  1a6wefCS)adECDswv  dOdllwCs_e_y af asedi                               l
d at lot Mid 2rid Wm1, hel c             D
Astsnal prhtoco bi lo
-PeWFrowIela                                       574
-P naron Cat.e                           aim       723
4PT                                     Oh-        352
4RAIPALU                                   5       524
4JAE                  Tetd:    311ep                                                                                                              byIh3
-Tuba&w* e                                of CM and ECD ervie deNvhdy stAf ked
-Mdib Amu requmPF                       By Trdna_ Proools:                                                                    er 
4+tge_ eala:PrwarhVriSi                      erotod                                    219                                    op       pd  t .
-#c*Uon  niiwVt                           4-Pvevm Cecll                                217
-UTSFSIDA                                  4165                                        360
IEC                                        -SPT                                        235
4RAIPALU                                    233
4jAD                                        233
.Tub                                        233
-Masmils we riewPF                          169
4       _ 0Mi ewsentordsvm                  395
Niion d     xakew                           206
-WTSISIDA                                   201
4EC                                         342
Total:                                    3033
JNumtw of HoDZider )Trafned In li:
Foov
Anew"Noto0et                                  6
4%gkdAide                                     6
4Pibhc Heath                                  3
4Rt* gy Aide                                  3                                                                                  >
Total                                        18                                                                               X  z
-Number of CHO(DWl ainde) Staf Trained In Am:                                                                                 8   X
-Gyrno4o                                      4
-Surgey                                       41                                                                                    C
-Publicil HaA,                                2
_____________________________________        Total                                        10
R4w#*hw-Jnq-ndt2/dcxX                                                                                                                                                                                             W



OBJECTIVES                                   INPUTS                             IMPEENTATION INDICATORS                 RISKS AND CRITICAL          OUTCOUSE3APACTS
(ResoLrces provided                          (Goods and Servioes                   ASSUMPTIONS              (ofd ole  acties)
br pre actvi)                               produc  by the pro
hov      Supply and DlSlbon                                                          La Avability hi heM   fti  of drup          -Failure tD Demonopolze    (See utation raw under
of esWitt ger  dnrgs.             Toal Cost:      $275.5  UlobK                             h In Gov/emXnts oWcMI                                                    1)
IDA Croft       540.0 MIOn                      es_iW *gf     k *W bt
Dao:           $103.0 Millon
- S,agen  DPhl ndeigned In          Govt:           $116.4 hUman                     Lb Frequency of ordwri for srt
Nabonel PhTneoi_Al Plan(NPP)  Locl Adrr.&Conrm.: $16.1 Million 
-Support Impbementat  Plan i       %d Component    ll oot  2.5%             2c Nuer end duaUon of rupEze hi
deOnopoPC e an reaucture        %of IDA to Component      9.0%                   easenbl drup stock
ONPPC
Funds WMi Be tJ Toe
EL EsWabh a Regitation Systm br Drugs
D. Eslblish a Phmacutlical Inrpection Sevice
Eabbish a Phwmcuuic Docmentaio  Service
d. Eibiu a rid Legl Frmo
dLConp*srz to thick MWegsmat SYSAeM
* Edblsh a FlnnrslAcounring Sydtm
pElsh a Sywimn fr Puriae of Speciaity Drugs
OQ Z
0 m
N|
L.



OIJECTIVE8                                No=TS                                ILEMATION  OIICATOS                               FIMKS AND CTICAL           OUTCOrE_APACTS
(Rse-mw  prode                                 (Goods Ni Senoe                                ASS WIPTK)NS             (Of Prd  eatle)
br   ducl) pd                                        byllneFp eA
baUh_g Capewy md FoehiL NumroVWdCtW Aed  b_e &abed haflcd eAhg:
Pus         hi Supptd rt   hi    ToW Cost:         7&s                                        1_                             .        * Decm*lzalion Procm         A     lawed aienidres td
S5o Ren_:                         IA C,el         540.0 mOn                        -Tewn Fiqn                                      55  Is dowed or           h     d     o     lm_ e  m
Doo.:          $103.0 Muon                      -audlensei55  enei5Onvn newNh rIel annua
GWA:           $1 16.4 lokn                     -Role&R                                          56 *IuffxiIe Reeoumv.    c on
Locenm.&Co .: $16.1 Muon                                           to&                           55  _bdnkihm p,"d
-llniuiong Devdopmet of MSP                                                         -Fhinidi Mi50                                                                   A      i nD  conhbuon s of
at Cnid, DDS. &d Diold           %of Conoed CaI   aoste     00.8%                 -SupeNn                                          30                             key bmnia    we comemis
i&ydb                            - of IDA to Cmopont    12.0%                    -Operonl Remd                                     30                             whdlh nui&g  plma Prole
-MnhiVb  & ECuden                               50                               - cod recy
,4n ig PatiaVin hi Fnl                 d W  Be LJ                                   -Co:  Rovy                                       55                               - bcod coleddle
Pmicin Flinix A                                                                   -Vehie Meldemmim                                  5                s               W*  budge
Role o Piled. Se                   SIsngue enIsoc  -e nhlugensn wid                Tdi: 440
n      _eno   -t ofkor ruoum  el d  leel                                                                                         Im*  of  u  ed    pIena
4-vjcd Mena u                      d1AMOPHs dnreWW:                            3.b Numbw of Cond de Sail (CS) menbem balned:                                        P    d
eVs
1. hayrowe modoalon mid elmolve uzalon          -S4qervIsIon                                    260                              Nunder at tNnd onhr
of d  memi    e                                  4MorofMnr*g                   353                                               conwruedy naegmsnt ca_ -
-kg                                            220
2.81in  mad demi*dze pinig.                     -Cd Rwagy                                        314
poon qw 6nid *_dolon                             Toed                                          1157
B. Delnt at mpe:                            3.c Nu dw CS memembed
1. Edells   I       fwu onnml                 -Goae                                              215
id p0_s ee _ ivwvn   hI                 -Teu                                               202
h_r    of PDS                                -&eh                                              335
-00                                               146
2. ZInd - cbdb                   1.Scoo
Tos:                                             117
~Id e'.4buiA%pmI g &     uAowmmM  1sellboe:
-Awivd ~L Is     hind 
_ "La  t W&t_ wt
by dli_e1 berv   wkwcal peom
_aq z
I JL4e~~ll4aliinmeAllgerAiselhZdnd3Jb                                                                                         mt~~I
Co



ANNEX 9
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
IDA Supervision Plan
Bank supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in the following table. This
project will also receive continuous supervision from Bank staff located in Niger to handle specific tasks
such as review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement actions, audits reviews, etc., and will
require total of six staffweek per annum.
Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities
Approx.                                                Skill              Staff Input
Date (MIY                  Activilv                  Requirments           StaffWeek
9/96                Project launch workshop, and   PHN Specialist                  10
first supervision mission to   Project officer
review project start-up and    Architect
procurement                    Project Management
Health Financing
4/97                Supervision Mission            PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Health Financing
Project Management
10/97              Supervision                     PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
4/98                Supervision                    PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Health Financing
Project Management
10/98              Supervision                     PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
4/99                Supervision                    PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Health Financing
Project Management



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Approx.                                                 Skill              Staff Input
Date (M/Y)                 Activity                   Reuiment               Staffweek
9/99                Mid-Term Review                 PHN Specialist                  20
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
Health Financing
4/00                Supervision                     PHN Specialist                   8
Project officer
Health Financing
Project Management
10/00               Supervision                     PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
4/01                Supervision                     PHN Specialist                   8
Project officer
Health Financing
Project Management
10/01               Supervision                     PHN Specialist                  8
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
3/02                Completion Mission              PHN Specialist                  20
Project officer
Project Management
Architect
Health Financing
MA PHEXCH\Johannc\Niger\Health2\SPVM.Doc



ANNEX 10
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Technical Assistance
I. SERViCES DE CONSULTANTS                        Unite   1      2     3      4     5      Total
A. INTERNATIONALE
- Composante 1: Am6lioration de la qualit6
et de la couverture des services de sante
Specialiste ICE                                 h/m    6     4      3     3     3       19
Specialiste epidemilogie                       h/m     6     3      2     2     3       16
Sp6cialiste gestion du programme MST            h/m    2     2      2     2     2       10
Counseling                                      h/m           2           2              4
Specialiste en equipement                       h/m    1                                 1
- Composante 3: Renforcement des capacit6s
institutionnelles et du partenariat
Specialiste en gestion                          h/m    2      3                          5
Sp6cialiste recherche operationnelle            h/m    2                                 2
Specialiste systeme evaluation et suivi         h/m           3                          3
Specialiste participation communautaire         h/m    I                                 I
Specialiste formation sur mesure                h/m    I                                 1
Specialiste recouvrement des coOts              h/m    1      1     1     1      1       5
Specialiste passation des march6s               h/m    1      1     1     1      1       5
B. NATIONALE
- Composante 1: Am6lioratlon de la qualit6
et de la couverture des services de santi
. Bilogiste MST/Laboratoire                     h/m     6     6      4     6     8       28
- Composante 2: Amelioration du systeme
d'approvisionnement et distribution des MEG
. Mission d'appui technique                     h/m     1      1                          2
- Composante 2: Am6lioration du systeme
d'approvisionnement et distribution des MEG
. Reorganisation comptabilite                   him     2                                 2
- Composante 3: Renforcement des capacit6s
institutionnelles et du partenariat
Specialiste en gestion                         h/m     2     4                           6
Sp6cialiste de la sante                        h/m     2                                 2
Specialiste en evaluation et suivi             h/m           4                           4
Comptable                                       him    12    12    12    12    12       60
Suivi du systeme comptable                     h/m     1      1     1                    3
Audit du programme                              h/m    2     2      2     2     2       10
Contr6leur financier                           h/m    12    12    12    12    12        60
Conseiller MSP                                 h/m    12    12    12    12    12        60
Total g6n6ral                           75    73    52    55    54       309



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
UnIt6   1     2      3     4     5      Total
11. ETUDES, RECHERCHES ET ENQUETES
- Composante 1: Am6lloratlon de la qualito
et de la couverture des services do sante
. MST/SIDA/Evaluation des ben6ficiaires         nbre    1            1            1       3
. MST/SIDA/Sensibilisation a propos des m6dicaments  nbre    1       1            1       3
. MST/SIDA/Enquetes quantitatives               nbre           1           1              2
. MST/SIDA/Appui aux enquetes sentinelles       nbre    1      1     1     1      1       5
- Composante 3: Ronforcement des capacit6s
instUtutionnelles et du partenariat
. EnquAte pour la mise A jour de Iinformation   nbre    1      1     1     1      1       5
. Enquetes sur les beneficiaires                nbre                 1            1       2
. Preparation 2eme phase du projet              nbre                 1                    1
. Evaluation A mi-parcours du projet            nbre                 1                    1
. Evaluation finale du projet                   nbre                              1       1
. Niveau central/Evaluation periodique          nbre    1      1     1     1      1       5
. Niveau DDS/Evaluation periodique              nbre    2     2      2     2     2       10
. Niveau district/Evaluation periodique         nbre    4     4      4     4     4       20
Total g6n6ral                           11    10    14    10    13       58
m:4exph/johanne/niger/health2/atngr.doc



ANNEX I I
page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
National, Regional and Overseas Training Plan
No. de participanb/an
Dunke   1     2     3     4      5     Total
A. FORMATIONS LOCALES
- CSI/management
Technique de supervision                       5j   141           15    24            188
. Micro-planification                           5j   210           23    24    62     319
. Budgetisation                                 5j   101   18    23    24    54       220
. Recouvrement des coOts                        7j   141   36    23    24    90       314
- Technique de soins CSI et ECD
. PEVtFroidNaccination                          10j   74    40    23    18    58      213
. Prevention cecite                             5j    54    58    23    23    58      216
. SNIS                                          7j          148   23    23    78      272
. SPT                                           10j         122   23    23    66      234
. IRAtPaludisme                                 5j          42    23    23    66       154
. LMD                                           5j          120   23    24    66      233
. Tuberculose/1-pre                             1Oj         120   32           84     236
. Matemite sans risque/PF                       1oj         80    23           66      169
.Hygiene, assainissement et prevention          1Oj         136   114         136     386
. Nutrition/Allaitement                         5j          104   61           80     245
. MST/SIDA                                      5j          61   116           96     273
IEC                                            5j          71   140   15   108       334
ECD/Management
. Consolidation equipe                          5j    55                               55
. Management/Qualite                           1Oj   55                                55
. R6letResponsabilite                           5j    55                               55
. Planification/Organisation/Controle           1Oj   55                               55
G Gestion financdere                            5j    50                               50
T Technique de supervision                      5j    30                               30
. Recherche operationnelle                      5j    30                               30
. Evaluation/Suivi                              5j    50                               50
. Recouvrement des coOts                        1 0j   55                              55
. Entretien des vehicules                       7j    35                               35
- Niveau Central/Management
. DPHUStage centre de documentation            3m                                      0
. DPHLfrechnique d'inspection                  6m      2     2                         4
. DPHLUEnregistrement des medicaments                                                  0
. Atelier de senbilisation aux changements      2j   150   150                        300
. Atelier de planification et programmation     2j   105                              105
. Atelier de sensibilisation MEG                20                                     0
. Organisation communautaire                    2j   2250  2250  2250  2250  2250   11250
. R6Oe et responsabilite gestion sante          2j   2250  2250  2250  2250  2250   11250
. Renforcement ONG/competences PDS              2j   150   150   150   150   150      750
. Voyage d'etudes                               3j    30    30    30    30    30      150
Niveau DDS/Management
. Atelier sur recherche et supervision          5j    36                               36
. Atelier sur structure organisationnelle       1j   225                              225
. Atelier planification, organisation et controle  1Oj   36                            36
. Atelier sur supervision des ECD               5j    36                               36
. Atelier sur gestion du personnel              5j    36                               36



ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 2
No. de participants/an
Dur6e   1     2      3     4     5      Total
B. FORMATIONS DANS LA SOUS-REGION
- Composante 1: Am6lloratlon de Ia quallte
et de la couverture des services de sante
Aide-anesthesiste                              24m    5      5     5                   15
Aide-chirurgien                                24m    5      5     5                   15
Infirmier en santb publique                    12m    4      4     4                   12
Manipulateur radio                             12m    5      5     5                   15
MST/SIDAIDiagnostic                             3j    35    35    35    35    35       175
C. FORMATIONS A L'ETRANGER
- Composante 1: Am6lloratlon de la quallte
et de la couverture des services de sante
Gyneco-obstetrique                              12     2     2     2     2              8
Chirurgie                                       12     2     2     2     2              8
MST/SIDAtEpid6milogie                                                                   0
MST/SIDA                                                                                0
Composante 2: Amellorafton du systeme
dcapprovisionnement et distribution des MEG
*LANSPEX/                                                                                0
* ONPPC/Enregistrement des medicaments                    I                              1
- Composante 3: Renforcement des capacit6s                                                0
instUtutfonnelles et du partenariat
Niveau DDS/Planification et gestion            2m        1                              1
Niveau central/Planification et gestion        Im       2                              2
m:4exph/johanne/niger/health2/fomgr.doc



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements                        Profile
Regional
IDA Fiscal                                                                   Sector
Years and          By Semester       Cumulative              Project         Profile
Semesters          (US Milbon)       (US$ Million)            1%)
1997        1            0.0               0.0               0.0%               0.0%
2           0.6                0.6               1.5%               0.0%                  40
1998        1            2.6               3.2               8.0%               3.0%                   35
2           6.2               9.4               23.5%             10.0%                       -                      - _
1999        1            4.8              14.2               35.5%             14.0%                   30-                  _ -
2            6.2             20.4               51.0%             22.0%                   25
2000        1            4.8              25.2               63.0%             30.0%                c                             /                                        -4--Projed Profile
2            4.2             29.4               73.5%             38.0%                    20   __    __Regioal Profi
2001        1            4.2              33.6               840%              50.0%                , 15 -                                                                 --   R          Pf
2            3.2             36.8               92.0%             58.0%                 D 10                           z _/
20D2        1            3.2              40.0               100.0%            66.0%
2                                                                 74.0% 
2003        1                                                                  82.0%                    0
2                                                                 86.0%                             P       Co     Ch      g      O             t
CD  b      0          0      0
2004        1                                                                  98.0%                                                   cm Ns  a   IN   tNI
2                                                                100.0%                                          Fiscal Years
m:4exphlohannge r/elthth7ldsb,ds
eh4~
>-



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
I.    Bastos, Dr. Rui. Rapport de mission MST/SIDA au Niger. Niamey. September 1995.
2.    Departement de Diffa. Plan de developpement sanitaire du district de Maine-Soroa. 1995.
3.    Departement de Tillaberi. Plan de developpement sanitaire du district de Filingue. 1996.
4.    Departement de Tillaberi. Plan de developpement sanitaire du district de Say. 1996.
5.    Departement de Zinder. Plan de developpement sanitaire du district de Goure; 1996-2000. July
1995.
6.    Departement de Zinder. Plan de d6veloppement sanitaire du district de Mirria; 1996-2000.
October 1995.
7.    Departement de Zinder. Projet de Plan de developpement sanitaire du district de Tanout; 1996-
2000. January 1996.
8.    L 'experience du recouvrement des cotuts de soins au Niger (Say et Boboye). Sante des
Communautes. No. 00 du ler trimestre 1996.
9.    Fargier, Marie-Paul. Composante pharmaceutiQue. May 1996.
10.   Perrot, Jean. Analyse economique du PDS: mission d'6valuation. May 1996.
11.   Piotte, Femand. Composante renforcement institutionnel. February 1996.
12.   Planning Assistance. Strengthening of MOPH Electronic Information System. May 1996.
13.   Ministere de la Sante Publique. 1D6claration de politique sectorielle de sante; Annexes 1, 2, and
3. 1996.
14.   Ministere de la Sante Publique (with Planning Assistance). Mise en oeuvre du Plan de
developpement sanitaire; estimation des coOts. re-evaluation des orientations et examen des alternatives.
May 1996.
15.   Ministere de la Sante Publique (with Planning Assistance). Nornes et standards du systeme de
ante. September 1995.
16.   Ministere de la Sante Publique. Programme national de lutte contre la tuberculose: rapport final:
1996.2005. February 1996.
17.   Ministere de la Sante Publique. Projet Sante IDA: Draft No. 2. April 11, 1996.



18.    Ministere de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du future H6pital de district: Dakoro. February
1996.
19.    Ministere de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du future H6pital de district: Diffa. February
1996.
20.    Ministere de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du future H6pital de district: Gourd. February
1996.
21.    Minist6re de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du fut;ie H6pital de district: Maine-Soroa.
February 1996.
22.    Ministere de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du future H6pital de district: N'Guigmi.
February 1996.
23.    Ministere de la Sante Publique. Schema directeur du future Hopital de district: Tanout. February
1996.






,BRD 2787'
N    I G    E  R                                                                                                 ----                      z          -         L   I   B   Y   A
HEALTH SECTOR PROGRAM                                                                              ,H
"K    PROGRAMME SECTORIEL DE LA SANTE                                                                                                                                                         c x                         -
N .                                                                                         - w                                                                                               RESEAU SECTEUR DE LA SANTE
NAINLHOSPITALS
O\"~ ILCOEILF5                                        HOPITAUX NATDONALUX
!7t  ,  -                                                ocori                                 .         G     LlNIVERSlTY HOSPITAL
.7                                                                      N            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTmEN TAL HEALTH
DIRECTORAT
DIRECTIONSDEFA'MNAU
DE SAINTEDEA"'"IS
AL    GE    RI   A                       .10~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ I T                                -                                             AED ROADS                 -
_.N    A-L  G   E  R  I A            /-                       ; 2 ' I r                                                 u | -                       g           RLOUTES PERMANENTES
-- EARTH ROADS
GMA                D        E        7                                          "OUTES EN TERRE
FLEUVES
SELECTED TOWNS
Ad,I~~~~~~~~~~~~~           -            ~~~~~~~R.6..                             T              I(LES SEIECTIONNERES
M         A         L                                                                                                                                                                           DISTRICT CAPITALS
j1                                                                                                     A  ______ ________ ___ _   ____   _____   _____   J   or)"  D EPARTMENT CAPITALS
- --- -- -- --- -- -- -ChEF-LIEU  DP  DEFARTEMENLT
j   \  tV                                                                                      0        69  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
TCuIGH  ZFRI.'LE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APTLENrINL
T \  r . H Z G H (Z E R I ,N .                       , _,      1                                         1      _ _ _ _ _ _ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.7    .                                       LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~MITrED ARBONDISSEMENTT
TCH        N-                         dz N-                                                                                               UMI1TE DE DEPARTEMENOT
THA NAADENE                                                         V                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
."FRONTIERES INTEBNATIONALES
A                                                                                                         DIFFA
?~~~~~~~ A.,O._.A  9TcH.di.(......... ''>/                                                                                                                                     TB.7 bcc40,.s- ''' _-I  c,_,
A,dfrc.,b.dc..  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
,-                                                iT.               G     U R E                                  / 
\/ Tchc0 t' C/ TA
A A8S0O0FF-                                                           g-3 -  NHI                                                                                                   ALGERIA                 LIBYA
0   _.       B          *R N ., I.' N,c, /                                                                                                                                         ccHccccd'c,,.:ewCqF9u
S _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  ,0cZ ccc.c \ P 1 0
I.MHcH..c  c,,A.    '''o   HA"A~
s    .-  .,-'- -   .  ----                                                                                               4 NIGER /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAD
FU KN An-    4wR0                                                                                                                                                                                      NIGERIA      rX
FASO  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        N          I     ~~~~~~~~~G     E         R         I         A/r                                               RWIR
/ CENTRAL
BENI N                                                                                                                                                                        C IT  RZT  ~    PI   0T









IMAGING
Report No:       15443 NIR
Type: SAR



