Report No. PIC3884
Project Name              Cote d'Ivoire-Urban Land Development and...
Housing Finance Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Housing
Project ID                CIPA44912
Borrower                  Republique of Cote d'Ivoire
Implementing Agency       Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
Tel (2) 44 28 05
Environment Category      NA
Date PID Prepared         February 28, 1996
Project Appraisal         June 15, 1996
Projected Board Date      December, 3, 1996
Peer Reviewers            Bertrand Renaud, FSD
Alain Bertaud, TWURD
A.   Background
Country and Sector Background
1.   Cote d'Ivoire is one of the principal countries of the West African
Monetary Union (CFA zone), with a population of about 13 million and an
estimated gross domestic product (GDP) of US$ 22 billion in 1995.
Following the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1993, the country
has successfully implemented a stabilization program that was supported by
the IMF. Inflation has been brought under control and has been reduced to
pre-devaluation levels of 0.3 percent - 0.5 percent per month. In 1994, the
country registered its first positive real growth of 1.7 percent in seven
years. Prospects for 1995 are even better and the government expects to
attain a growth rate of 6.5 percent.
2.   Population growth in the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire (RCI), averaging
3.7 percent a year, is among the highest in the world. At this rate, the
population is expected to double about every 20 years.     Over the last three
decades, Cote d'Ivoire has experienced an irreversible social transformation
from a predominantly rural society to an increasingly urban one. For the
first time in the country's history, half of the population is living in
cities, which account for nearly two-thirds of the GDP (Abidjan by itself
contributes half of the GDP) and their productivity is about 2.5 times that
of rural areas. Seventy percent of capital accumulation in urban areas is
financed by private savings. As in many developing countries, housing
construction remains a primary means for mobilizing private savings.
Rapid, low-density expansion has made the delivery of infrastructure and
services very costly. In addition, some cities, such as Abidjan, are
expanding toward peripheries that have difficult terrain, adding to the
already high per capita cost of infrastructure and creating some
environmental concerns.



3.   Widespread urban poverty is a relatively recent phenomenon in Cote
d'Ivoire. Recent data (from the 1992 priority survey) suggest that aost half
of Cote d'Ivoire's population now lives in poverty, a figure greater than
that in any period since independence. In 1993 the average poor person
had an expenditure level that was 38 percent below the poverty line, a level
lower than that during the 1980s. Since 1985, during the period of
austerity a larger percentage of the total population (about 45 percent)
became poor, and the gap between their average income and the poverty
line (the poverty gap) increased. By 1988, the incidence of poverty had
risen from 30 percent to 46 percent, and by 1992 this figure had increased
to around 55 percent. The urban land management system has made living
conditions of the urban poor less bearable. Many households have no
alternative to overcrowded and illegal slums. Legal land and housing
development is affordable only to the highest 15 percent of the population.
4.   Housing demand:   In Abidjan an average of about 15,000 houses     are
built each year, 75 percent in non-serviced areas (habitat spontane). Only
1,300 (8 percent) of this housing is officially recognized with building
permits (permis de construire), which represent the houses built in the
modern sector, according to legal construction standards, and located on
titled land. In 1992, of the total production, 13,000 houses cost less than
CFA franc 1 M (US$ 2,000), while only 1,600 cost between CFA franc 15
M and CFA franc 35 M (US$ 30,000 and US$ 60,000). This indicates
that squatter settlements are growing by 14 percent each year, and 65
percent of the total population of Abidjan lives in these areas.
5.   Land management.   A dual system of land management still prevails
in Cote d'Ivoire, which prevents land owners from obtaining a title, which
is a condition of getting a loan. Under the Law dated July 20, 1900 and
still enforced, the State owns all the 'vacant' or 'unused' land, and can
'sell' it for private use such as housing. However, before selling it, the
land has to be registered in the Land book (livre foncier). To do so,
customary rights over this land have to be 'paid off' to customary chiefs
(purge des droits coutumiers), by the State. Negotiations with customary
chiefs (chefs de terre) can take years, postponing land registration. Then,
since the registration has to be made by a critically understaffed central
administration department (Direction de la Conservation Foncijre), from
data given by another understaffed department (domaine foncier), this
registration (immatriculation) is further delayed. Due to these registration
delays, thousands of hectares of vacant land cannot be made available by
the State to the households.
6.   The registration of a transaction by the State creates a title first in
the name of the State. The private purchaser has then to be agreed to by the
Minister of Urban Development himself. However, this titling is done first
on a temporary basis (titre provisoire) to be converted to a permanent basis
(titre definitif) when a house is constructed according to costly (see para. 8)
official standards and an acknowledgment of construction (Constat de mise
en valeur) is issued by the State. Land development by itself does not
entitle its owner to obtain the title. As a result, the purchaser (called the
'attributaire' of the land) cannot have access to the 'final' title or a
mortgage before a house is built. In fact, because property registration is
optional, individuals have no legal obligation to register their property at
all, and may continue to hold their property indefinitely under the regime
of the Civil Code which rules private transactions (concession provisoire -
-2 -



no legal title given by the state) or under customary law. While this
protects their ownership, it creates no collateral for mortgage lending.
7.   The allocation note (lettre d'attribution) remains the most common
practice of access to land in Abidjan (70 percent). About 3,000
applications come to the lands department every year and more than 78,000
applications are pending. The poor who do not then apply, often 'buy'
directly a piece of land from customary chiefs, which is illegal, and allow
the state, under the pretext of regularizing the land tenure, to demand the
destruction of any construction which is not built according to the legal
standards.  The rapid increase of squatter settlements is therefore the result
of the system's inability to meet the land demand. In these areas,
households lack basic services, (since the illegal squatters cannot be
serviced) and are under the threat of being removed as soon as the
customary owners of the land have completed their negotiations with the
state.  Therefore, the current system not only favors those who can afford
the construction which will entitle them to a legal land status, but also
aggravates the situation of the poor who can only settle in illegal
settlements which cannot be upgraded.
8.   Legal private land development has been undertaken on a limited
basis, without financing and according to varying standards. Since most
private developers cannot gain the final title to land or sell the land they
develop (financing not being possible), developed land is serviced in
Abidjan through the 'Comptes de Terrains Urbains' (CTUs) scheme. The
purpose of the CTU, established by Decree no. 87-368 on April 1, 1987,
was, to finance improvements on building sites accessible to low-income
families.  It is also part of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA)
and does not have separate legal status. Its Management Committee plans
urban site development schemes, and sets the selling prices and terms of
sale.  Since it was established, the CTU has financed only two large-scale
operations covering 4,500 fully-serviced lots offered to real estate
development companies and individuals. The selling price was CFA franc
5,500 per m2, much more than the cost that low- or even middle-income
families can afford. Even when serviced land is available high construction
standards make the cost of legal construction beyond the means of most
urban households.
9.   The lack of mortgageable tenure is compounded by the difficulty of
enforcing foreclosure laws which, prevents commercial banks from
mortgaging the land and mobilizing long-term resources. The Caisse de
Mobilization pour l'Habitat (CDMH), was established by Decree no.
87/367 of April 1, 1987, to extend the initial maturities of loans provided
by commercial banks to home-owners. It is part of the CAA and has no
separate legal status. Commercial banks are currently providing financing
only for wage-earners in the formal sector. However, extension of housing
finance with linkage to the financial sector will require improved mortgage
instruments, foreclosure laws.
10. The land management and housing finance system is therefore
characterized by:
Inability, especially by poor households, to gain mortgageable land
tenure;
High land development and construction standards which make legal
-3 -



housing unaffordable to more urban households;
Dependence on government or external sources of funding since there
are no linkages to the financial sector;
Lack of adequate means to regularize and improve existing illegal
settlements.
11. Cote d'Ivoire is emerging from a severe economic crisis. The
Government is restoring macro-economic equilibrium and boosting
economic recovery through private sector development. The proposed
project would be part of this effort as outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). By helping create a well functioning land market and
enabling private savings to be invested in land and housing development,
the proposed project would contribute to the objectives of the Second
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit or FINSAC II. It responds to the
Government request, and financial institutions to address urgent reforms,
both in the regulatory environment and in the financial sector. The
resumption of the construction sector, which is key for the urban economic
growth, will also be supported by the project.
B.   Objectives
12. The project would prepare the reform package to complement
FINSAC II, with the multiple goals of facilitating private investment in
housing by moderate income households, helping to develop a market for
large-scale efficient provision of housing, and deepening the financial
system by developing a long-term, low-risk financial asset. The project
would also consider measures necessary to secure property rights of the
poorest urban households living in slums. Its detailed objectives would be
the following:
To increase the provision of serviced land in urban areas by the
private sector through the improvement of the land titling and
regulatory system, including the enforcement of foreclosure laws,
lending at positive rates and improved loan instruments.
To broaden the 'concession' system which allows private developers
to develop the land and sell plots that they would have divided
under certain conditions.
To adapt housing and land development standards to reduce
construction costs.
To replace the current and unsustainable, Compte de Mobilisation de
l'Habitat (CDMH) housing finance program by an autonomous,
and privately managed Secondary Mortgage Facility.
C.   Description
13. The project would support a Technical Assistance program to (i)
reform the land registration system (currently implemented by the Land and
Cadaster Administration) and proceed with the registration of land owned
by the state but not yet registered under its name; (ii) set up a database of
state-owned land which is developed but not yet sold, and a database of
privately-owned developed land which has not been built upon after 4 years
and therefore is considered illegal, (from rough estimations, this land,
ready to be built represents at least 1500 ha, e.g. approximately two years
of land demand in Abidjan); (iii) establish the regulatory environment
which will allow private developers to sell the land they would have been
- 4 -



authorized to develop (Concession d'amenagement), (iv) reform the
'Constat de mise en valeur' system; (v) ensure that land registration
improvements would also benefit existing squatter settlements of the type
being upgraded under the Municipal Support Program (MSP); (vi) reduce
construction costs, (vii) design realistically enforceable foreclosure
regulations; (viii) reform the existing financial institutions, draft their
operational manuals, staff them, launch the first operations for mobilizing
private funds and savings; and (ix) provide vehicles and equipment and
operational support for sector reform and project management. FINSAC II
would, on its side, provide a line of credit to finance the first lending
activities of the Second Mortgage Facility (CRH), and a line of credit to
finance the Mortgage Insurance Fund (FGH). Given the involvement of
the private sector in housing finance, IDA would coordinate with IFC.
D.   Financing
14. The proposed studies will cost approximately US$ 1.3 (11 percent of
total project cost). Reorganization of administration services will cost
US$1 M (8 percent of total project cost). Registration of state owned land
will cost US$ 3 M ( percent of total project cost ). Studies on reform of
financial institutions would cost approximately US$ 1 M (8 percent of total
project cost). Short-term technical assistance to make them operational
would cost US$ 3 M ( percent of total project cost). Training would cost
US$ 1 M (8 percent of total project cost). Hardware, software and
vehicles will cost US$ 1.7 M (14 percent of total project cost). The
Government, IDA, and the Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (CFD)
would assist in the financing of the development program estimated to cost
US$ 12 M. The European Union and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC) might also be interested in funding short-term technical assistance
and land management reforms. Close cooperation with donors will be
maintained during project preparation.
E.   Implementation
15. Project preparation and coordination would be supervised by the
Steering Committee set up within the Ministry of Construction and Urban
Affairs. The Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO),
Commercial Banks, as well as potential institutional investors (such as
insurance firms) would be involved in the discussions. Drawing from this
committee, a Housing Policy Committee would be set up later on to
overlook the project implementation.
F.   Sustainability
16. A market oriented system of Housing Finance and construction, based
on a practical land registration system and affordable standards, would be
much more sustainable over time than the present highly constrained,
highly subsidized system. Provided there is no unreasonable expectation as
to the possible access of lower income households to housing finance
provided by commercial banks without government subsidies, there is no
reason why the financial instruments to be created should not become in
due course financially viable, given the market demand for housing and the
number of potential creditworthy subborrowers.
G.   Lessons from previous Bank/IDA involvement.
- 5 -



17. During the implementation of the Third Urban project (closed on
June 30, 1994) the CAA/CDMH was not able to mobilize funds locally by
issuing long-term bonds to institutional investors. The shortfall in the
government contribution during the life of the project, as well as the
delinking of the refinancing rate from the BCEAO preferential discount
rate, prevented the CAA/CDMH from generating the surplus necessary to
become self-sustaining after the project, as was expected at appraisal.
Institutional development and public sector management objectives were not
achieved. The conversion of CAA/CDMH into a housing finance
institution with direct borrowing authority was not examined, as was
envisaged in the SAR. The main lessons from this experience are:
A project relying on private sector participation should not be
designed without extensive consultation with the private sector
itself and/or without conclusive evidence that the government is
indeed committed to privatization.
A private-sector-oriented housing finance system, encompassing the
production of plots and the construction of houses, cannot be fully
successful if the policy environment (particularly the regulatory
environment) is not conducive to private sector participation.
H.   Poverty Category.
18. The project would have an impact on poverty by establishing a land
market to facilitate access to serviced land, foster housing supply, and
contribute to creating employment opportunities in the construction sector.
By increasing the supply of houses, the project would also expand the
rental market, and therefore offer housing opportunities with minimum
sanitation and basic services to lowest income families. Lastly, the Land
management reforms would enable the poorest living in squatters
settlements to regularize their land tenure, and allow them to participate
in slum upgrading operations.
I.   Environmental Aspects
19. Although oriented towards financial institutions and the regulatory
environment, the project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment, by providing serviced land to low-income families, who now
have to settle in squatter settlements without basic services, such as
sanitation drainage or water supply.
J.   Participation
20. An urban sector strategy review was carried out during 1993 and
1994. Successes and shortcomings of land management and Housing
finance schemes were reviewed by working groups and participants of the
private sector (Bankers, 'Notaires', and home builders). The aim was to
involve the government and the private sector in the strategy formulation
and the subsequent internalization of the strategy's recommendations. The
successful involvement of stakeholders allowed for data and information
gathering that led to detailed recommendations for the proposed project's
objectives.
K.   Project Benefits.
-6-



21. The proposed TA project, as linked as it is to the Financial Structural
Adjustment loan, will leverage donors funds effectively. By reducing the
financial risks of providing mortgage finance, the TA project will set-up an
environment which will encourage private sector financial institutions to
invest their own resources (both deposits and capital) into housing. By
tying the provision of housing assistance to the individual savings, the
project will encourage the creation of additional savings in the economy
and increase use of the financial sector in their allocation. Finally, this
project is part of a broader effort including improved development
procedures and infrastructure provisions designed to make the shelter sector
more effective in meeting the pressing needs of urban households in RCI.
L.   Project Risks
22. Although the private sector has shown its willingness to provide the
vast majority of housing finance in many countries, it is by no means a
foregone conclusion in RCI. Commercial Banks are reluctant to provide
housing finance because they perceive high levels of liquidity and credit
risks in such lending. Liquidity risk arises from the long term nature of
housing loans, and the short term character of bank deposits. Credit risk
refers to the likelihood of default loss arising from either borrower
specific circumstances or systemic reasons (widespread unemployment or
political disruption). In addition, affordability of housing is low for
many RCI households due to the relatively high cost of housing. The TA
project would address these concerns through the creation of specialized
institutions to reallocate a portion of these risks and enhance the
affordability of housing. Significant risks also relate to legal and
political difficulties with foreclosure and would be addressed under the
project through short-term technical assistance and training.
Contact point:       Task manager
Jean Mazurelle, AF4IN
The World Bank
1818 H. Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473 49 36
Fax: (202) 473 82 49
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 7 -



