Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23267
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0360)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR AN
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT AND HOUSING FINANCE REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 19, 2001
Water and Urban 2 Division
Africa Region
Tl2is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective CFAF)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 718 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1 = CFAF.0014
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEF          Agence de Gestion Fonciere (Land Management Agency)
CAS           Country Assistane Strategy
CdC           Cellule de Coordination
CDMH          Caisse de Mobilisation de l'Habitat
CGH           Caisse de Garantie pour l'Habitat
CGMH          Caisse de Garantie Mutuelle pour l'Habitat
CTU           Comptes des Terrains Urbains
CU            Coordinating Unit
HSC           Housing Steering Committee
IFC           International Finance Corporation
PAPH          Projet d'Appui Institutionnel a la Politique de I'Habitat
SRH           Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire
SVI           Societe des Ventes Immobilieres (Real Estate Sales Company)
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager/Director:  Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT AND HOUSING FINANCE REFORM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
10. Additional Information                                                             11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044912                                       Project Name: URBAN LAND MGMT
Team Leader: Catherine D. Farvacque                       TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN LAND MGMT                                L/C/TF Number: IF-N0360
Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                        Region: Afiica Regional Office
Sector/stubsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/19/96                                Effective: 03/22/97           04/06/98
Appraisal:  01/16/97                                  MTR: 12/01/99              10/01/99
Approval:  11/05/97                                Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Cote d'lvoire/Cellule de Coordination (Inter-ministerial)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Mamadou Dia                                Shigeo Katsu
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                           James 0. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:  Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic               Jean Mazurelle
ICR Primary Author:  James Wright
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This technical assistance project was intended to support the detailed definition and initial
implementation of a package of reforms for improving the efficiency and equity of urban land and
housing markets in CMte d'Ivoire. As stated in the President's Report and the Technical Annex,
the project would:



(i) promote the development of a market for the provision of serviced land and housing, especially
to moderate and low-income households; (ii) foster private investment in housing by developing a
market-oriented housing finance system; and (iii) strengthen the capacities of public and private
sector institutions involved in the development and management of urban land and housing
delivery.
Despite attempts by government over the previous 20 years to provide developed land and
housing for the urban population, living conditions worsened, especially during the late 1980s and
the 1990s. The existing Comptes de Terrains Urbains (CTU), a government land development
mechanism, and the Caisse de Mobilisation de l 'Habitat (CDMH), a government housing finance
mechanism, partially succeeded in making urban land and housing available. The project was
intended to assist the government to plan and begin to implement a new land development policy
and a housing finance system as part of a broader privatization program already underway.
The objectives of the project were targeted at constraints that had long hindered urban
development in Cote d'Ivoire: (i) Land Markets. There was no functioning urban land market.
Most households could not gain tenure to serve as security for obtaining a loan. Customary land
rights had to be settled when the government acquired land. Even afterwards, land had to be
registered in the name of the state by the Ministry of Finance before it could be made available for
development, which was a long process. (ii) Construction and development standards. High
construction and development standards made it difficult for developers to subdivide and develop
land affordable to most of the urban population. (iii) Housing finance. The only long-term source
of housing finance was from the government's Caisse de Mobilisation de l 'Habitat (CDMH). It
served as an apex housing finance mechanism, providing long-term housing loans through
commercial banks. However, it lacked linkages to the financial sector and had limited funds
available. Because of all these constraints, the vast majority of housing was being built in
unserviced, illegal settlements.
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in June 1994, had included the
priorities of (i) maintaining economic stability and public finance reform; (ii) promoting private
sector development and trade liberalization; (iii) improving human resources; and (iv) intensifying
environmental action. Although somewhat at the periphery of these CAS objectives, the
proposed urban land and housing project was relevant to the priorities of public sector reform and
private sector development. However, these urban development issues had long been debated
between the World Bank, other international donors and the Government of C6te d'Ivoire, and
progress in addressing them had been slow. In fact, at the time of appraisal, the government
seemed to be backtracking on some of the project objectives by considering the forceful removal
of slum dwellers rather than providing them with tenure. Achieving this ambitious reform agenda
through a limited technical assistance project was clearly an ambitious undertaking.
A matrix entitled "Project Objectives, Program of Measures and Performance Indicators" that was
included with both the President's Report and the Technical Annex also reflected the
ambitiousness of the objectives. It described ten "objectives" related to land management reform,
six related to housing finance reform and eight related to capacity building, a total of 24. Many of
these "objectives" involved actions to test the new urban land management arrangements and to
- 2 -



improve the likelihood of success of the new housing finance agencies (Societe de Refinancement
Hypothecaire and Caisse de garantie) by strengthening foreclosure procedures, encouraging
household savings, etc. Capacity building involved improved land administration, data collection
and real estate tax management. These many objectives (and the many "measures" derived from
them - see Section 3.3) complicated the understanding and implementation of the project from the
beginning.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The three broad project objectives remained largely unchanged, although the third objective
involving capacity building was largely abandoned at the end of the project in order to focus on
the first two.  Also, because of problems encountered during project implementation, the
sub-objectives described above and the components and actions derived from them were focused
more narrowly or eliminated during implementation (see Section 3.4).
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives, the Technical Annex stipulated three main components:
(i)   land development and management reform: creating and launching the Land Management
Agency (Agence de Gestion Fonciere -AGEF), introducing private land development through
concession contracts, clearing the land titling backlog, reducing the cost of serviced land and
construction, and accelerating the privatization of state-owned land and housing;
(ii) housing finance reform: creating a secondary mortgage financing facility, Societe de
Refinancement Hypothecaire (SRH), creating a Guarantee Fund (initially referred to as Fonds de
Caution, later Caisse de Garantie Mutuelle pour l'Habitat - CGMH) to improve access of
low-income households to housing finance, strengthening the legal enforcement of foreclosures,
stimulating the real estate market and stimulating household savings; and
(iii) a capacity building program: streamlining the administration of land management,
broadening the tax base, upgrading the management of community housing developments,
providing training and specialized advice and strengthening project management.
In a technical sense, these actions were appropriate for meeting the objectives of the project, but
they were far reaching. They called for the creation of land management and housing finance
institutions following completion of studies. But given the limited size and short timeframe of the
project, the limited implementation capacity, the political nature and intransigence of vested
interests, achieving such a broad reform agenda proved to be an ambitious task.
In fact, the components were much more complex than described in the text of the President's
Report and the Technical Annex.  The "Project Objectives, Program  of Measures and
Performance Indicators," matrix outlined 15 "Reforms and Actions to be Undertaken" to achieve
land management reform, 10 for housing finance reform and 14 for capacity building, a total of
39. Many of these actions were related to pilot operations and changes in laws and incentives to
improve land taxes, savings incentives and data collection. To achieve all of the above, the matrix
outlined a total of 92 "tasks to be carried out." These tasks involved specific steps to be taken to
achieve the objectives but there was no attempt to package the tasks into consultant contracts
ready to be procured and monitored, which led to confusion and poor performance during
implementation.
-3 -



The complexity of the project was compounded by the structure of the implementing
arrangements. Three ministries were responsible for project implementation, Housing, Justice and
Finance, and activities were to be coordinated through a Housing Steering Committee (HSC)
chaired by the Minister of Housing. The project was to be coordinated by a Coordinating Unit
(CU) with staff paid by the project in each of the participating ministries responsible for
implementing their respective components of the project. Each of the three ministries was
represented by an appointee to the CU. The head of the Coordinating Unit was also the secretary
of the HSC.
3.4 Revised Components:
The complexity of the project and inadequate management and supervision in the early stages
resulted in the CU being unable to address all of the project components. Poor contract
packaging and procurement and disbursement problems appeared from the beginning of the
project, and there was a lack of quality control by the CU. Disbursements proceeded slowly.
Only seven percent of the credit was disbursed by mid 1999 when the task manager was changed
and a mid-term review was held. Because implementation had become very difficult, the new task
manger invited the CU (during the mid-term review in October 1999) to simplify the project by
deleting tasks that were not feasible to complete within the remaining implementation period. The
initial list of 39 "reforms and actions to be undertaken" was reduced to 27. Modified terms of
reference were prepared for a pilot addressage component in Abidjan, for pilot land development
operations and for SRH and GMH development.
In June 2000, six months before the completion date and faced by continuing slow progress, there
was another major effort to simplify the project by focusing on key actions to meet, in part, its
two main objectives: creating a viable urban land market and developing market oriented housing
finance. Most of the pilot and other peripheral operations were to be dropped. The project would
focus on only 15 actions allowing for the completion of the three main pillars of the project: (i)
the creation of AGEF, transferring assets to it; (ii) adoption of a law "Loi sur la Concession
d'Amenagement" and its implementation manual; and (iii) completion of the studies for SRH and
CGMH development. A final attempt to refocus the project took place in November 2000. At
that time, an action plan for possible extension was developed by the Bank team, which involved
eight key activities. This action plan was not endorsed by the Project, which kept pushing for a
full-fledged work program infeasible within the time frame.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Three issues can be raised with respect to quality at entry: (i) the quality of preparation of
individual components; (ii) the commitment of the borrower to the project; and (iii) the
complexity of the project.
Quality of Preparation of Components. Some of the groundwork for reform was laid during
preparation with preparatory studies and terms of reference. These studies included: (i) an outline
of constraints in land markets, especially how they affect the poor, and the legal reformns necessary
to make land markets function; (ii) an assessment of existing housing finance in C6te d'Ivoire,
including a preliminary outline of concepts for the Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire; (iii)
an outline of the purposes and effects of taxation on housing; and (iv) an outline of the functions
- 4 -



of an agency, which would acquire and manage land in behalf of the state. Consultants also
drafted a detailed law on land concessions and terms of reference for taxation reform, creation of
the SRH, evaluation of the existing CDMH, an information campaign, support to the real estate
legal system, and creation of a land management agency. Preparation also included tenms of
reference for pilot operations on a housing database, land registration, minimum land development
standards, development concessions, and a land reserve. These studies provided background
analysis but they also reflected the conceptual complexity of the project (which later led to
implementation problems).
Commitment of the Borrower to the Project Objectives. The aide-memoire of the appraisal
mission also included a draft Sector Policy Letter to be signed by the Ministers of Housing and
Planning. In the letter it was recognized that past efforts by the state to manage land development
and provide housing and housing finance had not met the needs, particularly the needs of the
poor. Under the new policy, the state would withdraw from direct land and housing finance
development, and allow the development of a private land and housing finance system. This
would require more effective demand for housing through improved land titling and housing
finance, an improved supply of land and housing and for the state to focus on policy. However,
although the content of the Sector Policy Letter had been negotiated with Ivorian officials at the
ministry level with some ministries clearly supporting the project, it is not clear that support for
policy change existed among all the government agencies.
Complexity of the Project. The most critical problem, however, was the complexity of the project
(see Section 3.3). The many peripheral pilot operations and data collection activities that were
included in the project slowed implementation efforts from the start. The expectation of creating
several new agencies as a result of a technical assistance project, with no prospect for capital
assistance, for initial implementation was optimistic.
Although there was a large effort to prepare studies and mobilize support among government
agencies, project implementation quickly became difficult due to complexity. On balance, quality
at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives were achieved only in part. (i) With regard to the objective of promoting the
development of a market for the provision of serviced land and housing, AGEF has been created
(see Section 4.2). In addition, a law enabling concessions for land management (Loi sur la
Concession d'Amenagement) was passed in September 1997, which should improve the land
development process. Its manual of implementation has been finalized after being presented and
reviewed at a stakeholder meeting, which took place in March 2000 in Abidjan, involving private
land developers, bankers, central and local administrations. Studies for the creation of SRH have
been completed. A "market oriented housing finance system" has not yet been fully attained, but
there is interest in C6te d'Ivoire in proceeding with the creation of SRH (see Section 4.5). The
Caisse de Garantie pour l'Habitat (CGH) has not been created, but a study has been prepared
which assesses the types of guarantee possible for giving lower income households better access
to housing finance. The conclusions of this study could be useful if this subject is pursued further
- 5 -



in the future. (ii) There has been little strengthening of the capacities of public and private sector
institutions involved in the development and management of urban land and housing delivery.
The project has provided the governmuent with tools for land development and housing finance
which are available to be built upon in the future. However, because these developments are not
yet yielding concrete results and would require further government commitment to do so,
outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Land development and management reform: The land development and management agency
(AGEF) was created in 1997 and its statutes were adopted in May 1999. It potentially represents
a breakthrough for public/private sector land development in C6te d'Ivoire and in Africa. The
land law AGEF is based on (Loi sur la Concession d'A4mnagement) authorizes it to purchase
land (reservesfoncieres) by negotiating the acquisition of customary land rights (purges de droits
coutumiers) with traditional landowners. Once the land is acquired by AGEF, it can be sold to
developers. Most of the initial staff members of AGEF were relocated from the Real Estate Sales
Company (Societe des Ventes Immobilieres - SVI) to AGEF. AGEF has a technical manual,
which is intended to ensure transparency of action.
There have been several staffing, organizational and procurement problems. AGEF has had four
directors, and the staffing of many departments has not been as previously agreed with IDA. The
final version of the Manual of Procedures for financial management was not made available to the
Bank for a no objection before project closing. SVI's land and cash assets were transferred to
AGEF. Pilot projects for land management through concessioning, originally planned for AGEF,
were not achieved due to delays in project implementation and potential slippage of the closing
date. In April 2001, there was another change in AGEF's management and there appears to be no
immediate source of financing for any of the pilot projects envisaged under the project.
Housing finance reform: The project called for the creation of SRH, the Caisse de Garantie pour
l'Habitat, and a number of legal and institutional developments and training. The initial broad
reform agenda was reduced during implementation to a more limited set of studies. (i) At the
beginning of the project, a study was commissioned (without IDA concurrence) for a general
diagnosis of housing finance, which proved to be of lirnited usefulness. (ii) After restructuring the
housing finance component, a study for establishing SRH began in July 2000, five months before
the completion date. The proposal is for SRH to finance mortgages by banks and issue bonds to
the capital markets. The fact that banks have expressed interest in providing equity to SRH is an
indication of its possible eventual success. International Finance Corporation (IFC) is also
interested in providing financing. However, the portfolio and equity of CDMH would have to be
transferred to SRH, and the Ministry of Finance has not yet agreed to this. (iii) A study to
explore alternatives for the Caisse de Garantie was also contracted in July 2000 and finished near
the end of the project. The study was hampered by a lack of a clear understanding (at the
beginning) of what was required, given the variety and complexity of the potential mortgage
guaranty systems that could be considered. In spite of this ambiguity and the limited time
remaining before the closing date, the report produced was a useful examination of the options.
No guaranty fund was created as originally envisioned, as it would be premature to define a
-6 -



guaranty mechanism without first having the broader institutional and financial arrangements for
housing finance in place. Both the SRH and the Caisse de Garantie studies were completed on
time prior to a workshop which had been scheduled for December 2000. (iv) A planned study on
housing subsidies was never initiated.
Capacity building program: Because of efforts to focus the project on a doable set of activities
within the two main components, very little of the capacity building program was undertaken.
This component was focused during implementation to achieve a much more limited number of
achievable tasks. Little of the planned media campaigns, data collection, improved public housing
and improvements in the real estate tax base were undertaken. An exception was the pilot
addressage exercise undertaken in Cocody.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As this was a technical assistance project, economic rates of return cannot be calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return can be calculated for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
Although institutional development was not achieved to the degree called for at appraisal, some
important institutional progress has been made. A new land law has been passed (Loi sur la
Concession dAmenagement) and an implementation manual is available for use. AGEF has been
created and the staff and assets of SVI have been transferred to AGEF. However, the new
management of AGEF have very limited experience. These and other institutional limitations (see
section 4.2) will limit its effectiveness. With the closing of the credit, IDA cannot finance pilot
operations, and AGEF lacks its own resources for this purpose.
Only initial studies and discussions have been undertaken towards the establishment of new
housing finance arrangements (see Section 4.2), but the groundwork for the SRH has been laid,
and banks and other potential partners have indicated an interest in pursuing housing finance
development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic and political situation in C6te d'Ivoire was unsettled especially during the latter
part of the project. There were five changes in government and many changes of key officials
within the concerned ministries that adversely affected project implementation. There was a coup
d'etat during the final year of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the final year of the project Cote d'Ivoire fell into non-accrual status with IDA which led
to disbursement problems at the end of the project, particularly affecting payment of the
consultants undertaking the housing finance studies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were problems within the agency with the initial implementation of the project. There were
also recruitment, procurement and audit problems (see section 7.6).
- 7 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
See Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
There have been several delays and obstacles in the development of AGEF as a facilitator of the
work of private land developers (see section 4.4). There have also been recent suggestions that
AGEF should be transformed into a land developer, which would be contrary to its original
purpose.
SRH has not yet been created and there is some resistance within government to the transfer of
the assets of CMDH to SRH, which would be a serious constraint to SRH's development.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
AGEF has been created and staffed. It is not clear when regular operations will begin.
The housing finance initiatives have resulted in studies, and there is some interest in the financial
sector to implement the recommendations. However, there are no firm arrangements to make
them operational.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Several consultant studies were undertaken during project preparation to lay the groundwork for
the project. These contributed to the substantive design of the project. However, the project that
resulted from this effort was complex with too many components and studies. Long lists of tasks
were prepared, but the groundwork was not laid for easy implementation. Tasks were not
combined into limited sets of contract packages and agreed upon during project preparation so
that a concerted set of consultant studies could have been ready for bidding after signing (see
Section 3.5)
7.2 Supervision:
Initial supervision by the Bank was infrequent and insufficient. A full record of supervision
reporting is not available, but it appears that after effectiveness in April 1998 there were only two
missions before the mid-term review in October 1999. Aide-Memoires and other reporting by
these early missions are insufficient to gain a full understanding of the effectiveness of early
supervision. Procurement problems developed early. Much of the work of the early supervision
missions was focused on procurement, disbursement and financial reporting issues. Missions
noted a lack of experience (within the CU) in consultant recruitment and contract administration.
There also was a concern that CU's focusing on the details of each contract seemed to be
clouding the necessary overview of the reform process (see Section 7.6). However, very little
was done about the fragmentation of tasks, contracts and other issues until March 1999 when
much time had been lost. In spite of the mounting problems, the project was rated satisfactory
until early 1999.
-8-



The Bank did react to problems beginning in early 1999. Project expenditure and procurement
were reviewed in late March 1999, and the Sector Manager sent a follow-up letter to PAPH, the
project coordinating unit. Several irregularities in procurement of goods, works, consultants and
personnel were pointed out. Ineligible expenditures were identified on items including office
equipment and personnel costs. No objections concerning project implementation were suspended
until these issues were solved. Incoherence of the work program was also noted. A new task
manager (in July 1999) pressed to resolve these issues, and most were dealt with within a few
months. The first task at hand was to clean up the situation of the CU. Some of the staff were
civil servants paid twice , by their government and by the project. The Bank team proceeded to
review (for no objection) every contract of the CU personnel, terms of reference, performance
indicators, salary range, as well as streamlining and cutting down the CU's operating costs. The
second task focused on streamlining the work program. The preparation team was invited to a
one-week brainstorming session with the main objectives of (i) evaluating what had been done
since appraisal; and (ii) defining a feasible work program for the remaining phase of the project.
During a mid-term review in September 1999, there was an effort to focus the large number of
dispersed tasks on a limited, more feasible plan. Out of 39 tasks initially planned, 27 were
retained with some modification. A summary justification and timeframe was prepared for each
task. Terms of reference were agreed upon for the main studies remaining, and the budget for
supervision was increased. In March 2000, a workshop was held in Abidjan among stakeholders
(bankers, private developers, ministry officials, representatives of local governments) to discuss
changes in the land law. When implementation remained slow, a subsequent mission in June 2000
further reduced project activities to 15 focussed around the two main components (land
management and housing finance). Subsequent interventions (in June and July 2000) from the
resident mission reviewed project checklists and AGEF's financial management system. Further
modifications have been made to the financial manual by AGEF and received the Bank's no
objection. This led to the decision of postponing the implementation of pilot activities until issues
were resolved. Bank specialists followed up well on the housing finance component. These
initiatives contributed to salvaging part of the project outcome.
Because there was enormous effort to restructure the project starting in 1999 and considerable
follow up during the later stages of supervision, including very extensive efforts after closing of
the project, on balance supervision is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Project preparation by the Bank led to a complicated agenda that proved very difficult to
implement. Initial supervision efforts were inadequate and could not identify and confront all of
the problems that arose. During the later phases of supervision, the Bank reacted proactively to
problems, which had a positive influence on some of the outcomes. Nonetheless, the final status
is short of the original objectives. On balance, therefore, overall performance by the Bank is rated
marginally unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Ministry of Housing showed commitment to the project during preparation. It was unclear if
all agencies concerned were equally committed to the project and prepared to cope with its
complexity of design. Preparation by the borrower is rated marginally satisfactory.
-9-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
There were five changes of government during the project period, which were detrimental to
implementation, and numerous changes at the ministerial level. The Ministry of Housing, which
was the main stakeholder, maintained consistent interest in the project. However, the effects of
the changes led to inadequate oversight. On balance, perfornance was unsatisfactory.
7.6 fmplementing Agency:
The project was beset by mismanagement problems from the beginning, which slowed progress
during the early stages. A mission in early 1999 noted that the CU lacked a clearly organized set
of tasks. This seemed to stem in part from the large number of tasks (which was later reduced)
and from a lack of a clear vision of the ultimate objectives of the project.
CU was not familiar enough with procurement procedures. In April 1999, the CU was instructed
by the Bank to stop procurement until a new procurement plan could be agreed upon.
Documents for equipment procurement were insufficient. Works for setting up CU offices were
done on the basis of shopping, not as called for in the Credit Agreement, and were not eligible for
reimbursement. In some cases, ineligible expenses were presented for reimbursement.
There were also staffing issues within CU. The recruitment of CU personnel did not follow
agreed procedures. Some were civil servants receiving two salaries.
There were problems with the CU's financial management. Review of expenditures revealed a
number of ineligible expenses which the government had to repay (March 1999 and October
2001). In addition, audit reports were not received on time and lacked auditors' opinions. When
the project was completed in December 2000, there were outstanding audit issues from the 1998
and 1999 audit reports. Auditor's opinions were lacking on the special accounts for those years
as well as reports on internal control. In the meantime, Cote d'Ivoire came under a general
suspension of disbursements after October 30, 2000. Payments on two large contracts (SRH and
CGMH) were delayed because CU was unwilling to use the special account for this purpose,
preferring to use it for its own operating expenses. Cote d' Ivoire has been on non-accrual status
since April 2001, which further complicates the payment of these contracts. The Bank staff
continues to work to resolve this problem.
Near the end of the project period, there was a lack of agreement between the CU and the Bank
on possible extensions of the closing date of June 30, 2001. The Bank indicated it would agree to
an extension if a work program could be agreed upon that could feasibly be implemented within
the remaining project period. The CU continued to propose a work program with 25 activities
which was inconsistent with the need to focus the project on a limited number of tasks that could
be undertaken by the closing date.  The Bank then maintained that extension would not be
possible but certain activities (the borrower completion report, audits, and final disbursements)
could be undertaken until the closing date.
Performance by the implementing agency is rated unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 10-



The initial complexity of the project created a challenging environment for implementation.
Nonetheless, given the implementation problems outlined above, borrower performance is rated
unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* It is very difficult to address land management issues in Africa. It requires full government
commitment and should be addressed with a step-by-step approach beginning with basic
building blocks before proceeding to a broader agenda.
*   Reform is more likely to be achieved by focusing on key policy and institutional improvements
rather than a broad-based detailed reform agenda. The project should have been conceived
more simply from the beginning.
*   When new agencies are being established there need to be intensive supervision missions,
especially at the beginning, to carefully follow up on the agreed work program with the
implementing agency. This is especially important during the initial phases of the project and
particularly so when a new agency such as AGEF is created.
* A carefully prepared procurement plan is necessary from the time of appraisal to enable
implementation to begin quickly and smoothly and to monitor the agreed agenda.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
At time of finalization of the ICR, the Government's report has not been received. Should the copy be sent
to us, it will be filled in the project's file.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA.
10. Additional Information
NA.



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndlcatortMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Separate outcome and output indicators were not provided in MOP or Technical Annex
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
Issue law creating AGEF                                                      Done
Adapt land agencies for plot production                                      SVI Transferred to AGEF
Publication of law on concessioning                                          Done
Test concessioning system                                                    Not done
Test production of building plots                                            Not done
Land rights regularizing texts                                               Not done
Regularize land in two pilot districts                                       Not done
Model sales contracts & const. standards                                      Not done
Audit CMDH                                                                   Done
Establish SRH                                                                Not done
Law establishing a guarantee fund                                            Not done
Fiscal incentives for real estate market                                     Not done
Encourage savings for housing                                                Not done
New regulations for land management                                          Not done
New housing finance policy creation and                                      Not done
publication
Publicize manual for land development                                        Done
process
Decree for real estate levels                                                Not done
Improve real estate base by strengthening                                    Not done
finance law
Publication of co-ownership code for public                                   Not done
housing
Promote knowledge of the law through                                         Done
training program
Media campaigns for housing policy                                           Not done
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
COTE D'IVOIRE - URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement of the ITF Credit
(US$ million equivalent)
Categories of          Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
Expenditures              US$ million         US$ million
Civil works                  2.80                0.00                0.00%
Equipment                    0.40                0.03                7.50%
Consultants' Services        4.90                1.27                25.92%
Operating costs              0.30                0.20                66.66%
Unallocated                  1.60                0.12                7.50%
Total                    10.00                1.62                16.20%
Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal/Actual Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
ITF Financed
Expenditure                   Procurement Method                   |    Total
Category       ICB           NCB           Other          NBF
Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual
1. Works    2.45   0.00   0.39   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   2.84    0.00
2. Goods    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.36   0.03    0.00   0.00   0.36    0.03
3. Services  0.00  0.00   1.40   0.00   3.53    1.27   0.00   0.00   4.93    1.27
4. Operating  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.28   0.20    0.00   0.00   0.28    0.20
Costs                I__
5.          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.59   0.12    0.00   0.00   1.59    0.12
Unallocated
Total       2.45   0.00   1.79   0.00   5.76   1.62    0.00   0.00   10.00   1.62
-13 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
As this was a technical assistance project, economic rates of return cannot be calculated.
- 14-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/96                         5   Urban Finance (2), Urban
Planner, Housing Finance,
Lawyer
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/98                         8   Urban Finance, Urban
Planner (2), Urban Mgnt.,
Lawyer (2), Urban Land
Mgnt., Land Taxation
Supervision
6/98                         3   Urban Spec., Operation            HS             S
Officer
1/99                         4   Urban Spec., Lawyer, Training     HS             S
Spec., Operation Assistant,
Infrastructure Operations Officer
4/99                         3   Sr. Financial Officer, Financial   HS            S
Officer, Operation Officer
10/99                        5   Urban Spec. (2), Infrastructure    U             U
Operations Officer, Land
Specialist, Housing Finance
Specialist
3/00                         4   Urban Spec., Financial Officer,
Infrastructure Operations Officer,
Procurement Specialist
6/00                         1   Infrastructure Operations          U             U
Specialist
7/00                         1   Financial Officer                  U             U
12/00                        2   Housing Finance Specialist (2)     U             U
ICR
6/01                         6    Urban Spec., Operations           U             U
Officer, Financial Mgnt.
Specialist, Sr. Procurement
Specialist, Procurement
Assistant, Disbursement
Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               50.1                       144.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    13.5                        34.2
Supervision                             114.7                       333.7
- 15 -



ICR                                      5.7                        19.7
| Total                      |           184.0         |             531.7
- 16 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(HHigh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
E Sector Policies                      O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
O Physical                             OH   OSUOM      *N    ONA
El Financial                           O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
a Institutional Development            0 H  O SU * M   0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
C Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      * N  o NA
El Gender                        OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)              0 H  O SU O M   0 N   * NA
- 17 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
OI Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS       * u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS       O  U  O HU
OI Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
3 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS       *  U  O HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
- 18-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoire ICR mission June 2001.
- 19-



