Document of
The International Development Association
acting as
Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
Report No. T-7108-IVC
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT AND HOUSING FINANCE REFORMS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
August 21, 1997
Water, Urban - 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US $1.0  CFAF 510
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEF             Agence de Gestion Fonciere
BIC              Benefices Industriels et Commerciaux (tax on)
BNETD            Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques pour le Developpement
CAA              Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Service Agency)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CDMH             Compte de Mobilisation pour l'Habitat
CFAF             CFA franc
CFD              Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CTU              Comptes de Terrains Urbains
DCFHC            Direction du Domaine, de la Conservation Fonciere, du Cadastre,
de l'Enregistrement et du Timbre, in MEF
FSD              Financial Sector Development project
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
HSC              Housing Steering Committee
ITF              Interim Trust Fund
MEF              Ministere de I'Economie et des Finances
MJPL             Ministere de la Justice et des Libertes Publiques
MLCVE            Ministere du Logement, du Cadre de Vie et de l'Environnement
MSP              Municipal Support Project
PFP              Policy Framework Paper
PSD              Public Sector Development
RCI              Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
SDU              Service du Domaine Urbain, in MLCVE
SICOGI           Societe Immobiliere de Construction et de Gestion de C6te d'Ivoire
SOGEFIHA         Societe de Gestion et de Financement de I'Habitat
SRH              Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire
SVI              Service des Ventes Immobilieres
UEMOA            Union Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
VAT              Value Added Tax
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director: Shigeo Katsu
Technical Manager: Letitia Obeng
Task Team Leader: Jean Mazurelle / Noel Carrere



TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of contents                         Page
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Project Design                                                                   I
A. Background                                                                1
B. Project Objectives                                                       2
C. Project Description                                                      3
D. Project Financing                                                        4
E. Project Risks                                                            4
F. Project Benefits                                                         5
G. Project Sustainability                                                   5
11. Project Components                                                              5
A. Background                                                               5
B. The Urban Land Management Reform                                         6
C. The Housing Finance Reform                                               9
D. The Capacity Building Program                                           11
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
1.  Project Administration                                                         14
11. Project Costs and Financing                                                    15
111. Procurement                                                                   16
IV. Disbursements                                                                  17
V. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting                                              19
Tables
Table 1.       Summary of cost estimates and financing plan
Table 2.       Key performance indicators
Schedules
Schedule 1.    Documents in the Project File



REPU1BLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT AND HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Implementing        Ministry of Housing
Agencies;           Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Justice
Beneficiaries:      Urban middle and low-income households
Poverty:            Design and experimentation of low-cost land development schemes
Credit Amount:      SDR 7.3 million (US$ 10 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity
Commitment Fee:    0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balance,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:    NA
Financing Plan      See Schedule A
0 : --SQurces iof financing-0 (003.7  -0C 0- fin JS$S mi-lion)--- 0-
Government                         1.70
ITF                               10.00
Japanese trust Fund               0.20
CFD                                0.10
0  Total -12.00
Net Present Value:    of revenue generating components       NA
of all project components                NA
Technical Annex
Report No.          T-7108-IVC
Map:                IBRD No. 26952



SECTION                                  a PROJECT  N  e......|
I.    PROJECT DESIGN
A. Background
1.    The social and economic consequences of urban growth in Republic of Cate
d'lvoire (RCI) are well documented. The expansion of cities has resulted in high
infrastructure costs, and the inadequacies of land management, construction standards and
housing finance have resulted in the multiplication and growth of squatter settlements --
which, in turn, has heightened environmental and public health concerns. Despite
attempts by the Government and local elected officials over the past 20 years to provide
decent living conditions to the urban population, conditions have worsened -- especially
in the late 1980s and early 1990s, due to the downturn experienced by the economy.
Aware that housing is critical to the general welfare and to social cohesiveness, the
Government intends to implement a broad land development policy reform. As part of
this new approach, the Government also intends to help modernize the mechanisms of
housing finance -- a process already under way under the privatization policy.
2.    The substantial social housing programs implemented by SICOGI and
SOGEFIHA in the 1970s and 1980s, the land development operations implemented by
the Government under Comptes de Terrains Urbains (CTU) and the creation of Compte
de Mobilisation de 1 'Habitat (CDMH) have not prevented a deterioration of urban living
conditions. As a consequence, emergency measures focusing primarily on squatter areas
(e.g. under the on-going Municipal Support Project) are now necessary to improve the
living conditions of the poorest segments of the population. The factors responsible for
the persistent deterioration of these conditions remain: (i) the absence of a land market,
which makes it almost impossible for the vast majority of urban dwellers to have access
to land or to collateralize land for shelter financing purposes; (ii) high construction
standards, which make legal developments unaffordable for most households; and (iii) the
absence of a housing finance system linked with financial markets to provide a reliable
source of funding for home financing.
3.    An Integrated Approach for Reforming the Sector. The Government's past
strategy of subsidizing land development and housing and providing subsidized housing
credit has not worked. Experience in many other countries has established that, even if
more resources could be allocated to subsidize housing development, such a policy would
still remain ineffective, essentially because it would not prevent the most creditworthy
segments of the population from appropriating most of the subsidies. Thus, improving
the housing conditions of low-income households appears achievable only through the
implementation of a new, broader and more diversified Government strategy for the



- 2 -
housing sector, encompassing major improvements to both land management and housing
finance, and relying on the private sector.
4.    Urban Land Management.  While rehabilitating the housing sector can be
achieved only through a major increase of the allocation of private resources to the sector
(i.e. a major increase of the mortgage market), a prerequisite for such an increase is a
reform of the land management system whereby land can be identified, transferred and
mortgaged. For this purpose, a revision of related laws and regulations and an overhaul
of the land management services are necessary. Such changes, however, will need to be
made while taking into account local traditions. Also, building on existing structures will
be desirable, to instill confidence among the operators in the housing market as well as
the authorities responsible for monitoring its development. Such undertakings, therefore,
should involve all participants from the private and public sectors, and only a process
seeking a consensus on the conceptual framework of the reform can lead Government,
banks, developers, realtors, lawyers, magistrates and notaries to participate in the reform.
5.    Housing Finance.  The various forms of Government housing subsidies
(SICOGI, SOGEFIHA, CTU programs, CDMH) have catered for the middle class,
contrary to their initial objectives, and should be replaced. Basically, housing finance
should be provided through financial institutions and market offerings -- with public
subsidies kept strictly for the poor and managed separately in a way ensuring that their
purpose is effectively met. Relying on financial institutions (inter alia a secondary
mortgage facility, to be created) and market offerings should simultaneously: (i) increase
investment options for savings -- thus contribute to the mobilization of savings -- and
help regulate the flow of investments; (ii) contribute to the broadening and strengthening
of the financial sector; (iii) increase the volume of resources available for housing loans;
and (iv) allow public funds to be better directed to the poor -- particularly through
investments in priority infrastructure and squatter settlement upgrading. Furthermore, by
reducing the risk of mismatch and allowing competition between institutions, the new
system should result in a reduction of management costs and, therefore, of the cost of
housing finance for the households. In parallel, risks to financial institutions will be
reduced through measures such as the effective enforcement of foreclosures, and will be
better distributed.
B. Project Objectives
6.    The project will support the detailed definition and the beginning of the
implementation of a reform package for improving the efficiency and equity of urban
land and housing markets. Specifically, it will:
promote the development of a market for the provision of serviced land and
housing, especially to the moderate and low income households;



- 3 -
*  foster private investment in housing, by developing a market oriented housing
finance system; and
*  strengthen the capacities of public and private sector institutions participating
in the development and management of urban land and concerned with
housing delivery.
To see that new institutions build up their capacity and that new systems, standards and
regulations are adopted, the project will also support testing these new elements through
pilot operations in land titling, management and development, and in data management.
C. Project Description
7.    Under its land management and development chapter, the project will help: (i) set
up a Land Management Agency for providing land to developers; (ii) establish a
regulatory environment allowing private developers (through concession d'amenagement)
to have access to and develop land, then sell plots; and (iii) regularize the legal status of a
large fraction of existing properties. The project will also support improvements in land
registration to benefit squatter settlements (of the type upgraded under the Municipal
Support Program, MSP, financed by the IDA Credit 2704-IVC), and the definition of
land development and construction standards compatible with the financial capabilities of
low income households.
8.    Under the project's housing finance chapter, the system will be reformed by: (a)
creating new institutions and mechanisms (a secondary mortgage facility -- Societe de
Refinancement Hypothecaire, SRH -- and a mortgage insurance mechanism (Fonds de
Caution) to improve low-income households' access to credit) and preparing manuals to
orient their operations; and (b) launching the first operations of private funds
mobilization. In parallel, the project will support reforms ensuring that foreclosure
regulations are enforced and collaterals can be effectively mobilized to provide security
to lending institutions.
9.    The project will support pilot operations through which the Government will have
the opportunity to assess the benefits to be drawn from the different elements of the
reforms and improve on the latter. The project will also help the Government improve its
capacity to monitor its housing policy, through establishing the Housing Steering
Committee (HSC), designing and creating a data base for monitoring the new policy and
streamlining the agencies involved in land management. Finally, the project will provide
equipment and operational support to the sector reforn and project management.



-4 -
D. Project Financing
10.  ITF will contribute US$ 10 million equivalent to the financing of the project. The
Government will provide US$ 1.7 million equivalent to finance part of the project's
operating costs and to support its capacity building component. The Japanese Trust Fund
has contributed US$ 0.2 million to finance the establishment and early operation of the
project Coordination Unit (para. 46). France's Caisse .Franqaise de Developpement
(CFD) will contribute US$ 0.1 million equivalent in parallel financing for technical
assistance, essentially for auditing CDMH. CFD is likely to expand its contribution to
integrate CDMH in SRH and assist in setting up its operational procedures once the detail
of a SRH setup satisfactory to CFD is known. IFC has also expressed interest in
participating and supporting SRH, and will clarify its position when detail of SRH
structure as well as of its conditions and modes of operation becomes available.
E. Project Risks
11.   For years, the issues of land management and development and housing finance
have been raised with the Government by the Bank and other donors, with limited
success. However, as evidenced by its participation in recent urban sector work, the
Government would now be committed to reorient its policies -- notably, to privatize land
development and marketing and to reach lower income households, which can only come
with a strong and sustained political commitment. However, as the private sector
develops further, the Government's disengagement from the housing sector might be
perceived as a threat by groups with vested interests arid, under their pressure, the
Government might opt for short-term stop-gap measures against fundamental reforms.
Should the Government follow such a course, serious rejpercussions would ensue for
poverty alleviation and the development of the financial sector. ITF then should, at the
time of the mid-term review, reconsider its support for this operation and for possible
subsequent operations in the sector.
12.   Other risks relate to housing finance. Although the private sector in many
countries has shown its willingness to provide funds for housing finance, such a
willingness has yet to be demonstrated in Cote d'Ivoire. As of a recent period,
commercial banks were still somewhat reluctant to provide housing finance because they
perceived high liquidity and credit risks in such lending: liquidity risks arising from the
long term nature of housing loans and the short term character of bank deposits, and
credit risks arising from possible defaults due to either borrowers' private circumstances
or broader causes (e.g. rise in unemployment, or political disruption). The project will
address these concerns through the creation of specialized institutions and regulations to
reduce and redistribute these risks and to improve the affordability of housing. Finally,
significant risks also relate to legal and political difficulties in enforcing foreclosures, and
these will be addressed under the project through short-term technical assistance and
training to the institutions involved in such enforcements.



-5 -
F. Project Benefits
13.   The proposed project will improve development procedures and the provision of
infrastructure designed more appropriately to meet the needs of shelter of the middle and
low income urban households. By reducing the risks attached to the provision of
mortgage finance, the project will also help ensure that the financial environment does
not hamper anymore private financial institutions from allocating resources to housing
finance. Thus, the project will facilitate and encourage the mobilization of private
savings, investment in housing and, therefore, some further growth of the economy and
the financial sector. Finally, the proposed project should lead to a very significant
leverage of donors funds.
G. Project Sustainability
14.   Experience in a number of other countries has established that market-oriented
systems of housing finance and development, based on an effective land registration
system and affordable physical standards, adapt to evolving needs and circumstances and
prove sustainable over time, because they are not constrained as highly subsidized
systems are. Given in RCI (a) the panting demand for housing, (b) the large number of
creditworthy borrowers (once housing investments compatible with households resources
become eligible for financing) and (c) the significant reduction and more equitable
sharing of financial risks, the new financial instruments and institutions should prove
both viable and durable.
II.   PROJECT COMPONENTS
A. Background
15.   Redefining the Role of Government. Past land management and development
and housing construction programs implemented according to regulations and physical
standards set by the Government and marketed at below market prices, have proved
inappropriate to address the housing crisis. These programs have acted as disincentives
for the mobilization of private housing producers, have failed to regulate the supply of
housing both in terms of costs and volume, and have created rationing. In practice, these
programs have benefited a small number of households and had an adverse economic and
social impact, as they have encouraged speculation and tied-up capital unproductively.
16.   Whereas the Government used to fund public real estate companies and was itself
a real estate developer, now -- because of the need to reduce its budget deficit -- it cannot
provide any meaningful support to the sector. It must, therefore, create the conditions
needed to mobilize funds from the private sector. For this purpose, clear legal and fiscal
policies are needed to facilitate the emergence of a housing market in which properly
informed real estate developers, financial institutions and investors will participate. The



- 6 -
Government's new approach has now been spelled out in a Sector Policy Letter submitted
to IDA as a condition of Board presentation.
17.   Creating a Real Estate Market. Households with monthly income of less than
CFAF 150,000 represent at least 80 percent of Cote d'Ivoire's urban population and their
demand for housing can be met only by a market that would ensure the large scale
availability of both serviced land and housing loans. Since making land available is the
first step towards meeting the demand for housing, the Land Management Reform,
described in section B below, is key to establishing this new environment. The next
bottleneck rests with the real estate finance system, which should not be constrained by
shortcomings in financial risks coverage arrangements and/or related legal setups, or by
State budgetary considerations. Where Government assistance might be needed, it should
be earmarked for the poorest groups and effectively targeted towards needy households;
also, to minimize possible slippage and ensure the desirable transparency, such assistance
should be fully distinct from the commercial credit system. The Housing Finance
Reform, described in section C below, is essential to see that the demand for housing
finance become explicit, and can be met.
B. The Land Development and Management Reform
Detailed Design and Implementation Startup
18.   Background.  Cote d'lvoire's new housing policy rests squarely on the
management of land. While the State should have a role in urban development, it must
also be recognized that, in the past, the State has proved not to be sufficiently effective in
guiding the transition from customary to private land ownership, or in organizing
mechanisms to pave the way to private real estate ownership. The situation still
prevailing facilitates practices that undermine common law principles and, therefore,
expectations are that the State should experience increasing difficulties overseeing the
transition to private ownership.  The growing ascendancy of real estate and land
promoters, is a recent phenomenon and strongly argues in favor of removing the
production of serviced lots from State prerogative. The large-scale production of serviced
land can be achieved only if the private sector is involved in land development. Towards
this end, in the future, the development of land according to agreed upon specifications
will be contracted out to promoters by the State, through a land management agency, to
be created under the project.. The measures and reforms listed below should contribute
significantly to improving the supply of serviced land.
1. Creating and Launching a Land ManagementAgency (AGEF)
19.   The Urban Development Department (Service du Domaine Urbain) in the
Ministry of Housing, traditionally responsible for implementing the land reserves policy,
will continue to hold title to land reserves. However, in the future, the Department will
delegate the operational responsibility of assembling land reserves through purchasing
land from customary chiefs (purge des droits coutumiers), to a land management agency,



-7 -
Agence de Gestion Fonciere (AGEF) to be created no later than December 31, 1997.
Under this arrangement, AGEF will be a service provider to Service du Domaine Urbain;
it will also help local governments establish and manage land reserves. The project will
help define AGEF's functions, responsibilities and resource needs and draft the agency's
bylaws. Furthermore, an inventory of Service des Ventes Immobilires (SVI) will be
made and its resources allocated to the AGEF, and a Law will convert CTU into a Land
Development Fund. The cost of this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measures #1-2)
is estimated at US$ 250,000.
20.   To start building some experience in its land assembly function, AGEF, under the
project, will undertake a first operation of land acquisition, testing how effective it is at
carrying out settlement of customary land rights (purge des droits coutumiers). The cost
of this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #3) is estimated at US$ 100,000.
2. Introducing Private Land Development Thtrough Concession Contracts
21.   In the future, land development will be carried out by private developers under
contract with AGEF. For developing a site, AGEF will have consultants define the
technical and financial specifications (Cahier des Charges) to be annexed to the
concession agreement, call for bids from developers, analyze and compare the bids, then
award a development concession. Developers, once awarded a concession, will become
temporary owners of the land, will develop it according to Cahier des Charges, and be
allowed to sell building plots with clear title, without having to obtain a certification of
edification (constat de mise en valeur) as done at present. Service du Domaine Urbain
will oversee the compliance with all the contractual clauses in the concession agreement.
Procedures for the above modus operandi are detailed in the draft implementation decree
of the Law on concession. This will ensure diversity and autonomy of, as well as
competition among potential concession holders and compliance with the Law on
concession. Promulgation of the above Law and decree -- already approved by the
Parliament and the Council of Ministers as a condition of Board presentation -- is a
condition of Credit effectiveness. A model deferred delivery sales contract will also be
prepared under the project, for use by land developers in their sale of serviced plots,
which should help them reduce their needs of prefinancing. The cost of this project
subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #4) is estimated at US$ 50,000.
22.   To test the new practice of land development through concession contracts, the
effectiveness of such contracts and their enforcement by the Administration, the project
will finance technical and financial studies for two operations. These pilot operations
will provide an opportunity to test the assessment by AGEF of developers' potential
capacities and its process of selecting developers, and to assess the time needed to turn
the stock over and AGEF's ability to control the quality of such operations. The cost of
this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #5) is estimated at US$ 2.8 million.



- 8 -
3. Clearing the Land Titling Backlog
23.   The primary obstacle to the development of a mortgage market in C6te d'lvoire is
the scarcity of mortgage guarantees secured by a land title. According to Cote d'Ivoire's
law, even if a plot has been developed, a concession provisoire (temporary land title,
transferable, in principle) on this plot can be canceled by the State. As a consequence,
financial institutions are hesitant to accept temporary titles as security. A priority,
therefore, is to increase the number of legitimate land titles that cannot be legally
contested. This can be achieved readily by regularizing the status of all properties with a
temporary land title or properties of an otherwise uncertain legal status. This should have
the effect of (i) increasing substantially the size of the market; and, as a consequence, (ii)
permitting more pertinent assessments of the quality of mortgage guarantees.
24.   Under the project, the backlog in legal registration would be caught up with by
adopting streamlined procedures recently drafted by the Government. In accordance with
these procedures, (a) plots awarded more than five years ago and still undeveloped, or the
development of which is valued at less than CFAF 1 million, will revert to the State; and
(b) constats de mise en valeur will be delivered on the basis of fiscal evaluations already
available with the Administration. Estimates are that the status of at least 95,000
properties could be regularized in about 3 years. Support to this operation will be
provided under the project, through the provision of the necessary means to the
Directorates of Conservation Fonciere in the Ministry of Finance and Service du
Domaine Urbain (see Matrix: measure #6). This project subcomponent is estimated to
cost US$ 200,000.
25.   Under the project, a pilot operation in two districts will give an opportunity to test
the new procedures before they are adopted and followed throughout Abidjan. Under the
project, (a) regularization procedures will be finalized; (b) an inventory of the land status
will be carried out in the districts selected; and (c) the implementation of the procedures
will be fully documented so as to permit further improvements to these procedures as
deemed necessary. The cost of this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #7) is
estimated at US$ 150,000.
4. Reducing t/he Cost of Serviced Land and Construction
26.   Under the project, a detailed study will be carried out to define standards for land
development and housing construction (the latter, in consultation with the industry)
consistent with local conditions and constraints -- notably, on the basis of affordability
levels, to ensure that the market price of serviced plots and shelter units are affordable by
low income households. Also, in collaboration with the inclustry, (a) an analysis of the
impact of taxation on the building industry will be carried out to identify ways to remove
disincentives for builders to enter the formal sector, as most of them are presently in the
informal sector; and (b) specific actions will be undertaken to encourage a more intensive
use of labor and a greater utilization of local materials. Finally, the existing system of
duties on land transfers will be reviewed to identify ways by which transaction costs can



- 9 -
be reduced and thus the land market made more active. The cost of this project
subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #8) is estimated at US$ 240,000.
27.   To test the conditions of production and marketing of low cost developed plots,
the project will support two pilot operations to develop such plots to be sold at market
prices to low-income households, i.e. households with monthly income of less than
CFAF 200,000 in 1996 terms. Plots will be sold, or "rented" under a system of long term
allocation (baux emphyteothiques) payable in a single up-front payment. The cost of this
project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #9) is estimated at US$ 1.8 million.
5. Accelerating the Privatization of State Owned Land and Housing
28.   Compared with other countries in the region, C6te d'Ivoire has a relatively large
public stock of land and housing units. The use of this stock could be greatly improved if
its management were to be private; correspondingly, market growth and fluidity would be
greatly enhanced by such a transfer. Also, part of the demand -- particularly, that for low
and moderately priced housing units -- could be met by facilitating the purchase of this
stock. This would require that regulations be amended so that the State-owned stock can
be put up for sale. The prerequisite analyses, the preparation of such amendments and the
preparation of model sale contracts would be provided for under the project. The cost of
this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #10) is estimated at US$ 70,000.
C. The Housing Finance Reform
Detailed Design and Implementation Startup
29.   Background. The present "lease with option to buy" system often results in sales
below the market value. This is not a sound basis for market financing and affects
adversely the development of such financing. A system of mortgage lending with
transfer of property at the time of sale is far more appropriate and conducive to wider
market financing. Under the project, new regulations and contracts will be developed
(a) to facilitate the sale of new housing, as well as the turnover of the existing stock; and
(b) to make it possible for developers to secure prefinancing for their operations. Also,
the Government, to encourage investors to invest in jointly owned property, will revise
joint ownership regulations.
30.   Although a number of elements of a full financial system are already operational
in RCI, a market in housing loans does not yet exist. The project, therefore, will examine
means of increasing the mobilization of term resources, for the banking system to be able
to expand and diversify its operation in mortgage lending. Other objectives will be to
expand the range and depth of the financial sector and to enhance competitiveness among
lenders -- leading inter alia to lower costs of housing finance to households.



- 10-
1. Creating a Secondary Mortgage Financing Facility (SRH)
31.   Equipped with the necessary guarantees, a secondary mortgage financing facility -
- the creation of which no later than June 30, 1999 will be supported under the project, as
Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire (SRH) -- should be able to provide the banking
system with long-term resources in amounts less constrained than under the CDMH
State-funded scheme, and thus facilitate access to credcit for potential homeowners.
SRH's structure of capital, terms of offerings, borrowing capacity, etc. will be defined in
detail under the project -- seeing that the SRH operation be coherent with, and fully
integrated in the whole Ivorian financial sector reformed along the lines soon to be
defined under a separate ITF operation, the proposed Financial Sector Development
(FSD) project. Expectations are that SRH would basically be a private entity, mobilizing
funds on the capital market, in which financial and non-financial institutions would
participate. CDMH operations, as run in the past, will be discontinued. Government
assets in CDMH will be assessed and would probably be transferred to SRH.
32.  Improvements in cost transparency and in the quality of guarantees offered by
borrowers (para 35), combined with competition among lending institutions, should make
it possible for the cost of funds for borrowers to be close to that of medium term
resources. In turn, moderate costs of funds should result in expanding the borrowing and
investment capacity of households, and bring better housing within reach of the less
affluent social groups.
33.   Another important benefit expected from the establishment of SRH is the
introduction of new long-term savings products on the market, which will greatly
contribute to the modernization, and enhancement of the efficiency of the financial sector
as sought under the FSD operation. For, a better match could then be achieved between
the instruments offered and the needs and opportunities of participants in the market --
notably, insurance companies and pension funds. Setting up the SRH will be supported
by the project. The cost of this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #11) is
estimated at US$ 440, 000.
2. Creating a Guarantee Fund to Improve the Access of Low-Income Households
34.   The feasibility will be studied of creating a guarantee fund (Fonds de Caution) no
later than June 30, 1999 -- a mortgage insurance mechanism to improve households'
access to credit -- intended specifically to supplement the guarantees given by low-
income households.  Financed in comparable shares by borrowers' deposits and
allocations from the State, the Fund would be used exclusively to guarantee loans for
low-cost serviced plots or housing units (CFAF 5 million or less) meeting minimum
standards, yet remain affordable by low-income families. Funds would be used to cover
borrowers' defaults in the event of unemployment or disability -- death being already
covered by compulsory insurance or other ways. The cost of this project subcomponent
(see Matrix: measure #12) is estimated at US$ 240,000.



- 11 -
3. Strengthening the Legal Enforcement of Foreclosures
35.   To promote the realization of securities, the project will seek to strengthen the
role, capabilities and capacities of Courts, by training magistrates and legal assistants, by
computerizing court proceedings and by establishing an information link between the
Courts and the Land Management Department in the Ministry of Finance (see Matrix:
measure #13). The cost of this project subcomponent was estimated at US$ 220,000.
4. Stimulating the Real Estate Market
36.   The project will develop rules and procedures to enable private developers
awarded a Convention de Concession d'Amenagement to use it as security to obtain from
banking and financial institutions, loans to help meet their financing needs. As already
mentioned in para 23 and 28, model contracts of various types will also be drafted with
the project support.
37.   Under the project, a number of cases will be surveyed and analyzed, and
recommendations on tax exemptions for housing loans will be made. Similarly, an
analysis will be carried out of the likely impact of other possible exemptions (e.g. of
VAT, BIC) on real estate promotion, and recommendations will be submitted
accordingly. The cost of this project subcomponent (see Matrix: measures #14-15) is
estimated at US$ 100,000.
5. Stimulating Housing Savings
38.   The project will study the possibility of granting tax exemptions for borrowers on
the interests paid on SRH-refinanced housing loans, and of exempting SRH from BIC.
Also, after a careful review of the possible impact of such exemptions, recommendations
will be submitted as deemed appropriate on exemptions for revenues from bonds issued
by SRH, and for interest paid on housing savings accounts. The cost of this project
subcomponent (see Matrix: measure #16) is estimated at US$ 90,000.
D. The Capacity Building Program
39.   Background. Even after the Government has implemented legislative, regulatory
and institutional reforms giving new responsibilities to housing sector operators, the
Administration will still need to be the arbitrator. The State will not invest large amounts
of public funds in housing anymore, but it will continue playing a regulatory role and
ensuring that rules are understood by all the parties involved. It will also have to impose
sanctions occasionally to limit abuses that might result from a new freedom in real estate
transactions. Charts of sector performance will be developed -- based on performance
indicators -- for savings and investment, real estate market, the impact of taxation on the
level of investments, the fluidity of the market, and the success of Govermment agencies
in restructuring the land registration and development system.



-12-
1. Streamlining and Improving the Administration of Land Management
40.   Administrative services concerned with land management are distributed between
two ministries. Service du Domaine Urbain, Service de Z'Urbanisme and Service de la
Topographie, all responsible for managing land registered by the State, are part of the
Ministry of Housing. Direction du Domaine, du Cadastre, de 1'Enregistrement et du
Timbre (DCFHC), which guarantees private titles and assesses property taxes, is part of
the Ministry of Finance. The roles of these different services will be revisited and
redefined as deemed desirable in the context of the reforms undertaken. A preliminary
distribution of responsibilities -- to be confirmed under the project -- would be the
following: the role of Service du Domaine Urbain would be limited to the registration of
the land to the name of the State, and to overseeing the operation of AGEF. DCFHC
would remain the guarantor of property rights on plots purchased. Such changes should
have far reaching organizational consequences, -- including the transfer of Service du
Domaine Urbain to the Ministry of Finance. These will be examined in detail under the
project, and specific action plans will be developed accordingly (see Matrix: measure
#17). The cost of this project subcomponent is estimated at US$ 300,000.
41.   Under the project, three operations will be undertaken to support this
strengthening of the sector management. First, a prime data base will be established from
the documents of Service du Domaine Urbain, DCFHC and Bureau National d'Etudes
Techniques pour le Developpement (BNETD).  The data base will be used by
policymakers, by all administrative departments involved in land management and by
developers, and will facilitate the transfer of land (see Matrix: measure #18). Second, a
public information campaign targeting households and other groups -- e.g. professionals,
associations -- will be undertaken (see Matrix: measure #19) with the participation of the
actors concerned with the sectoral strategy. Third, a Real Estate Guide will be developed
and will be one of the main instrument in the information campaign (see Matrix: measure
# 20). Estimates are that these operations will cost in total US$ 1.0 million (0.1, 0.8 and
0.1 respectively).
2. Broadening the Tax Base
42.   The project will help rationalize procedures for assessing taxes on land and on
properties, by using surveys to determine benchmark premises (by zone, category of
housing, etc.). Such rationalization of procedures should lead to a substantial increase of
revenues from land and real estate taxation; estimates are that the tax return from
properties which would be registered in a simplified way (see para 24) could be in the
vicinity of CFAF 17 billion per year. The project will support the review of taxes on real
estate registration and transfers and the development of related recommendations. The
project will also finance the implementation of a computerized system for real estate
taxation purposes (see Matrix: measures #21-22). The cost of this project subcomponent
is estimated at US$ 190,000.



- 13 -
3. Upgrading the Management of Community Housing Developments
43.   The existing housing stock in C6te d'Ivoire, especially housing built by parastatal
companies, is deteriorating rapidly because of the lack of maintenance of buildings and
open spaces. In order to encourage implementation of a uniform system for managing
community housing developments, the project will finance a qualitative survey of a
sample of 200 Abidjan households living in SOGEFIHA and SICOGI housing
developments (which number 40,000 units); see Matrix; measure #23. The cost of this
project subcomponent is estimated at US$ 100,000.
4. Providing Training and Specialized Professional Advice
44.   To promote a broader knowledge of urban development planning and law, the
project will provide professional and research training on a variety of subjects and, in
particular, on urban and real estate laws (see Matrix: measure #24), addressing general as
well as specialized topics for the benefit inter alia of concerned professionals who wish
to improve their trade.  Advice will also be provided under the project for the
development, the organization and the supervision of the land developer profession. The
cost of the professional services involved in these supports is estimated at US$ 270,000.
5. StrengtheningProject Management
45.   To achieve the project objectives, an efficient coordination of all parties involved
in these reforms will be needed. For that purpose, three small Technical Units will be
established in each of the ministries primarily concerned: Housing, Finance and Justice.
The activities of these Units will be supervised by a Coordination Unit.  The
Coordination Unit will act as the project implementation agency; it will prepare the
decisions of, and report to the Housing Steering Committee (HSC), chaired by the
Minister of Housing and composed of the other Ministers concerned. A Coordinator has
been designated by the Government to manage the Coordination Unit. Recommendations
to the HSC will stem from the analysis and monitoring of various data (inter alia land
registration; inventories of allocation notices, undeveloped land, sites developed but not
built) managed by the agencies responsible.  Under the project, equipment and
operational support will be provided for the Coordination Unit, as well as technical
assistance to the Technical Units. Cost estimates for this project subcomponent are US$
1.8 million.



- 14-
: ::BXRR;..............   .......   ....................... ..... .... .......... ..... ... ... .. .... .
I. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
46.   The three Ministries involved in the preparation of the reform package -- Housing,
Finance and Justice -- will be responsible for overall program coordination and project
execution, through the Housing Steering Committee (HSC ) chaired by the Minister of
Housing. The HSC will meet at least once a month and its decisions will be prepared by
a Coordination Unit, on the basis of dossiers prepared by the three Technical Units
established in each of the Ministries concerned. The intenministerial order establishing
HSC, the Coordination Unit and the Technical units was taken as a condition of Board
presentation and its promulgation in the Journal Officiel will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The Ministries, through their respective Technical Units, will be
responsible for implementing the project in their respective areas of prerogative. AGEF
will not be able to take immediately full responsibility for the implementation of some of
the pilot operations and will, therefore, delegate temporarily this responsibility to the
Ministries of Housing and Finance. All agencies, following conventional procurement
procedures, will commission consulting firms and general contractors to design the
operations, execute the works and supervise the contractors. The Coordination Unit will
facilitate communication between the Technical Units, provide advice on procurement,
supervise contractual arrangements, administer disbursements and prepare project
progress reports on the basis of progress status notes prepared by the Technical Units. In
summary, individual agencies will be responsible for implementing the various project
components, as set out in the following Table.
Components:                           Implementing Aenies,
Coordination of Project Implementation   Housing Steering Committee, through Coordination Unit
Land Management Reform Program      Ministries of Housing and Finance
Housing Finance Reform Program      Ministry of Finance
Capacity Building Program           Ministries of Housing, Finance and Justice
Pilot Operations in Land Development  . AGEF through/and Ministries of Housing and Finance
47.   A Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to ITF, should be completed as a
condition of effectiveness. A draft detailed implementation plan for the first year and the
related budget, acceptable to ITF, was prepared and the adoption of a final version of
these plan and budget will be a condition of effectiveness. Thereafter, activity plans and
related budgets will be prepared each year and submitted no later than October 31 to ITF
for comment and approval. The project should be completed in December 31, 2000 and
the Credit should close on June 30, 2001.



- 15 -
48.   A series of progress indicators have been identified and agreed upon with the
Government (Table 2). A first set of indicators refers to the adopted implementation
schedule. The other set pertains to the progress achieved in adopting the policy measures
expected as part of the reform, in making theses measures effective, and in generating the
changes sought under the reform program.
49.   A mid-term review will be conducted about eighteen months after effectiveness
and no later than December 31, 1998. The review will assess progress in implementing
the project and determine what changes, if any, should be made. The review will include
an assessment of the impact of the land management and housing finance reform
programs, and a detailed assessment of the pilot operations. The Government, ITF and
CFD will discuss the actions needed to mitigate negative impacts. Based on the results of
the pilot operations, the Government is expected to confirm its plans for the
generalization of the reform program. Following the review of the Government's reform
plans and the feasibility of the institutions to be established under the project (Land
Management Agency, Secondary Mortgage Financing Facility and Guarantee Fund), ITF
will determine the extent of its support for the remainder of the project.
lI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
50.   The estimated project costs and financing plan are summarized below:
Project components                  Costs *
- Land Management Reform                     5.66
- Housing Finance Reform                     1.09
- Capacity Building                          3.66
Unallocated                                 1.59
Sources of financing             Financing
Government                                   1.70
ITF                                         10.00
Japanese Trust Fund                          0.20
CFD                                          0.10
Total                                 12.00
* in US$ million
51.   The detail of project costs and financing is presented in Table 1. The opening by
the Government of a Project Account for funneling its contribution to project financing
and the crediting of an initial amount (CFAF 300 million) to this account would be
conditions of Credit effectiveness. Proceeds of the ITF Credit used to prefinance pilot
operations, once recovered from beneficairies, will be credited to AGEF as a contribution
to its operating resources.



- 16 -
III. PROCUREMENT
52.    Expenditures under the proposed project will be distributed among the different
expenditure categories as shown in the Table below.
Expenditures, by Category (US$ million)
Project Components          C. works    Equipt.    Services   Op. costs           Total
Land Management Reform            4.06         0.18         1.42           -          5.66
Housing Finance Reform             -           0.04         1.05           -          1.09
Capacity Building                  -           0.30         2.56         0.80         3.66
Subtotal                      4.06         0.52         5.03         0.80        10.41
Contingencies *          .   0.84          0.08         0.57         0.10         1.59
..................................................................   ............... ................ .................--......... - -.......  .......  ............  .......................   ...   ..........
Total                            4.90          0.60         5.60         0.90        12.00
* Physical and price
53.    Civil Works. Contracts up to US$ 200,000, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$ 500,000 equivalent, will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
following procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts above US$ 200,000, works will
be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
procedures.  The resources concerned by the different categories and procurement
methods are summarized below
Resources concerned  (US$ million)
Expenditure Categories            by Procurement method                        Total
!BI         NCB      Other *'  NIF **
Civil works                          3.50        0.56         -           -         4.06
(2.45)     (0.39)                             (2.84)
Equipment                                                   0.42        0.10        0.52
(0.36)                 (0.36)
Consultants' services                  -         1.40        3,53       0.10        5.03
(1.40)     (3.53)                 (4.93)
Operating costs                       NA         NA         0.70        0.10        0.80
(0.28)                 (0.28)
Subtotal                         3.50        1.96        4.65       0.30       10.41
(2.45)     (1.79)      (4.17)                 (8.41)
,..... ....... .........    ............... .........   ...... .. ..... .
Unallocated                                  1.59                               1.59
(1.59)                            (1.59)
Total                                           11.70                   0.30       12.00;
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(10.00)                (10.00)
* i.e. shopping or qualification, or other    ** Not ITF Financed
Nota:  Figures in parentheses show amounts finaniced by ITF (and are net of taxes)



- 17 -
54.   Equipment valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, and not exceeding US$
400,000 equivalent in the aggregate, will be procured through national shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA. For goods valued at more than US$ 100,000 equivalent
and less than US$ 200,000 equivalent, and not exceeding US$ 500,000 equivalent in the
aggregate, will be procured through national competitive bidding using standard bidding
documents approved by IDA. No contract for goods in excess of US$ 200,000 is
anticipated.  (If such a need were to materialize during project implementation,
international competitive bidding using IDA-issued standard bidding documents will be
required). Prior review will be required for all competitive bid contracts.
55.   Consultants' services will be procured according to related IDA guidelines dated
January 1997. Procurement will be carried out by the Technical Units as needed. Draft
terms of reference for the major consulting contracts to be financed under the project
have already been prepared; they will be finalized following discussions with ITF and
will be available in the Project File and attached to the Project Implementation Manual.
IDA's standard consultant contract forms, including a short-form letter for direct
contracting of individual consultants for short-term assignments, will be used. Due to
the particular focus of the proposed project, highly specialized expertise will be needed
for a number of advisory missions (i.e. as regards SRH) and, therefore, a significant
number of related contracts will be passed on a consultants' qualifications basis.
Similarly, other support needed under the project (e.g. to help establish AGEF) will call
for consultants with an extensive first-hand experience in comparable undertakings, and
such services will be sought from individual consultants. Consultant contracts with
individuals in excess of US$ 50,000 equivalent and with firms in excess of US$ 100,000
equivalent (essentially related to the pilot operations) will be subject to prior ITF review.
IV. DISBURSEMENTS
56.   The project is expected to be disbursed over a four-year period. Disbursements
should be significant in the first phase of project implementation since the project
comprises a number of sub-components for which draft terms of reference are available
and contracts could be awarded in the first few quarters of project implementation.
Comparatively, other sub components -- e. g. that related to the establishment of SRH --
are likely to come to maturity at some significantly later date, as they involve participants
(e.g., commercial banks) that will need more time to come to closure on their
participation.
57.   ITF funds will be disbursed against the percentages shown in the Table below,
which are consistent with IDA practices under comparable technical assistance projects.
58.   Disbursements will be administered by the Coordination Unit on the basis of the
documentation prepared by the Technical Units. To facilitate project implementation:
(a) the Government will establish a Project Account through which its contribution will



- 18 -
be made available by regular replenishment, based on the plan of action and related
budget forecast; and (b) a Special Account in CFAF will be opened in Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA). The Special Account will be used for eligible expenditures
below US$ 100,000. The authorized allocation will amount to CFAF 600 million and
will cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon Credit effectiveness, CFAF
300 million, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, will be deposited into
the Special Account; the balance will be made available when needed as established by
the annual budget(s) submitted to ITF for comment.
Disbursement of the ITF Credit
oo% of expenditures against which ITF
Categories           ITF allocation    funds will be disbursed (expendit. in)
of Expenditures        (USS Million)    Foreign exchange    Local currency
Civil works                       2.80               n.a                70
Equipment                         0.40               100                80
Consultants' Services             4.90               100                100
Operating costs                   0.30       .       n.a                40
Unallocated                     1.60               n.a                n.a
59.   The Special Account will be replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications
fully documented except for: (a) contracts amounting to less than US$ 100,000 equivalent
for civil works, equipment and consulting firms' services; (b) contracts of less than US$
50,000 equivalent for individual consultants' services; and (c) operating costs which may
be claimed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs).  All supporting
documentation will be retained and reviewed periodically by ITF supervision missions
and external auditors.
60.   Retroactive financing -- up to a limit of DTS 730,000, equivalent to 10 percent of
the proposed amount of the Credit -- will cover the costs of eligible consultants' services
incurred after January 1, 1997.
V. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
61.   The maintenance of records and the preparation of accounts and progress reports
will be carried out by the Coordination Unit with the support of the Technical units. One
full-time professional, the Accountant in the Coordination Unit will be responsible for
maintaining records and preparing accounts. His appointment -- as well as that of the
Lawyer and the Procurement officer in the Coordination Unit  will be a condition of



- 19-
Credit effectiveness -- The project accounts, the Special Account and the statements of
expenditure will be audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. The
audit report will be provided to ITF within six months of the end of the financial year.
Audited financial statements prepared by auditors acceptable to ITF will also be provided
to ITF and the HSC. Terms of reference for the work of the auditors have been agreed
upon and are available in the Project File. The adoption of an accounting and financial
management system and the appointment of auditors, both acceptable to ITF, will be
conditions of Credit effectiveness.
62.   A full progress report will be prepared and submitted to ITF semi-annually, on
April 30 and October 31 at the latest. The report will detail all project and related
activities, report on progress against agreed upon schedules, and identify any problems
that may have been encountered and that could adversely affect the overall impact of the
project. The reports will also compare actual performance with target performance
indicators, using a range of performance monitoring indicators presented in Table 2.
Each of the Technical Units will provide information to the Coordination Unit in a
regular manner so that its reports can be prepared in a timely fashion. The format and
content of the reports, and the responsibilities of each Unit in relation to the report, are
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. For several indicators, specific targets
have been identified. For others, base line data are not currently available. An early task
under the project will be to identify base lines so that realistic targets at different dates
can be determined.



-20 -
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT AND HOUSING FINANCE REFORMS
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE) PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Part A. Estimated Project Costs * (US$ million equivalent)
rojet                      :Cost (USS million)I      Foreign as-
Components  Local   Foreign    Total    %  f Total:
Land Management Reform                  2.40      3.26     5.66         57.6
1. Creating and launching AGEF       0.04      0.21      0.25         85
Pilot operation                    0.02     0.08      0.10         75
2. Developing through concession     0.02      0.03      0.05         75
Pilot operation                    1.26      1.54     2.80         55
3 Clearing the titling backlog       0.04      0.16      0.20         80
Three year program                 0.04     0.11      0.15         75
4. Reducing development costs        0.06      0.18      0.24         75
Pilot operation                    0.90     0.90      1.80         50
5. Privatizing public real estate    0.02      0.05      0.07         75
Housing Finance Reform                  0.24      0.85     1.09         78.0
1. Creating and launching SRH        0.11      0.33     0.44          75
2. Creating a Security Fund          0.06      0.18      0.24         75
3. Enforcing foreclosures            0.03      0.19      0.22         85
4. Stimulating the Real Estate market  0.02    0.08      0.10         75
5. Stimulating housing savings       0.02      0.07      0.09         75
Capacity Building                       1.89      1.77     3.66         48.4
1. Land management (Administr.)      0.08      0.22     0.30          75
Support operations                 0.40     0.60      1.00         60
2. Tax base management               0.05      0.14      0.19         75
3. Public housing management         0.03      0.07      0.10         75
4. Training in R.E. + prof. organiz.  0.07     0.20      0.27         75
5. Project implementation             1.26     0.54      1.80         30
Base Costs                              4.53      5.88     10.41        56.5
Physical and Price Contingencies        0.69      0.90     1.59
Total                                   5.22      6.78     12.00        57.0
* Excluding Taxes and Duties



- 21 -
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Part B. Financing Plan * (US$ million equivalent)
Source.            Cost Component
of financing         Local    Foreign      Total
Government                  1.7         -         1.7
ITF                         3.4        6.6        10.0
Japanese Trust Fund         0.1        0.1        0.2
CFD**                        -         0.1        0.1
Total                       5.2        6.8        12.0
** Caisse FranVaise de De'veloppement
T Excluding Taxes and Duties



PROJECT OBJECTIVES, PROGRAM OF MEASURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Summary
A. LAND MANAGEMENT REFORM
N.          Obv0ai J'   |         Reforim and acdons        Execut           Tasks to be carried out           Perfornwnce Indicators        Timeframe
________________  to be undertaken         Agency
Provide the State and    Create a land management     ML        I. Definition of AGEF (corporate   I. Publication in J.O. of Law        Oct. 97
local authorities with    agency (AGEF)                        structure, bylaws, operational     creating AGEF
an autonomous                                                   procedures)
agency for creating                                            2. Creation of AGEF                2. Recruitment of Director           Dec. 97
and managing land                                               - draft and approve articles, bylaws
reserves                                                       - subscribe to capital
2    Adapt institutions      I. Transfer Service des J'entes  ML      I. Inventory of SVI's stock and    I. Decree on transfer of SVI stock   Oct. 97
that contribute to the    Immobifi&res (SVI) into land         professional capacities
production of          management agency (AGEF)                2. Reallocation of SVI human and   2. Ministerial circular to reallocate  Dec. 97
serviced plots                                                  physical resources                 SVI human resources
2. Transform Compte de
Terrains Urbains (CTVI) into   ML       Preparation of draft Decree        3. Decree transfonninig CTlJ into a  Mar 98
a Land Development Fund                                                    Land D)evelopment Fund
3     Improve land           Cany out a first operation of  MH        I. Improve the procedure of land   Time taken to carry out the operation    March. 98
availability for a     land reserve under improved             transfer from customary rights to  in view or the number of transactions
better operation of    procedures                               public ownership (reserves)       involved
the market                                                      2. CarTy out a first operation of land
reserve under new procedures
3. Update Abidjan Master Pan
4     Award concessions      Draft detailed regulations     ML        Produce texts that ensure:                                              Oct. 97
for development        (convention de concession               (i). Diversity of concession holders  Publication in J.0. of Law and
operations             and cahier des charges) to               and concessions                    application decree (including model
implement the Lawv on land              (ii). Concess. holders' autonom,y  cahier de charges) on land
development concession                  (iii). Temporary ownership of land  development concessions
by concession holders
(iv). Sale by concession holders of
serviced plots with clear title
5     Test the development   Carry out 2 operations to test  MH       I. Select sites (about SO and 10 ha)  1. Process of developer selection  June 98
of land under          all the procedures involved in          2. Prepare development scheme      2. Final cost of unit plot
concession system     the development of land                  3. Select developer                3. Process of beneficiary selection
through the concession                  4. Finalize financing plan         4 Income level of beneficiary
system                                  5. Supervise development, and sale
to households                     households
S. Time taken to tum the stock over



No.         Objecives             Ref ornw and actions      Exed.  .         Tasks tobecared 0iid               Po- -         catar -i.  :          am-ey
______________  .obeundertaken     Agenc~y.   :_:_._ _d_:_.-:. __:
Clear the land titling    1. Pilot clean-up of land     MF       1. Clean-up some 95,000 pending    Publication of texts on land rights   June 97
backlog         ~liabilities                    + ML      cases in Abidjan ,by conferring the  rglrzto
status of registered properties to plots  regularization
awarded and built upon.
2. Adopt appropriate                    2. Definition of appropriate methods
methods, procedures and                  procedures and institutional
institutional organization              organization
7     Test improvements to   1. Regularize some 95,000       MF       1. Select districts                 1. Arre d'application (on pilot      Oct. 97
the regularization     pending cases                            2. Do an inventory of land status in    districts of the Land Regularization
process                2. Test of land regularization          the districts selected              law
in two pilot districts in               3. Simplify regularization rules    2. Time taken to regularize titles  March 98
Abidjan                      ~~~~~~~4. Implement
Abidjan                                  5. Document the implementation of
the operation (premises, personnel,
equipment, public information)
8     Reduce the cost of     1. Adopt model sales            MF       1. Draft model contracts allowing   I. Model contracts made available to    March 98
land development and   contracts allowing partial               partial prepayment by purchasers of    notaries, associations of sector
housing construction    advance payments by allotees,           serviced plots                     professionals and commercial banks
for prefinancing developers
2. Adopt development and                 2. Review technical specifications  2. Availability of a set of new
construction standards                  with a view to making serviced plots   standards, and wide communication  March 98
compatible with middle and               and housing affordable by middle  to developers and builders
low income households'                   and low income households
financial capabilities
Test the production of   Carry out 2 operations to     MH       I. Select sites                    1. Final cost of unit plot            June 98
building plots at      provide serviced plots                   2. Prepare development scheme      2. Income level of beneficiary
market prices for low    affordable by low income               3. Select developer                households
income groups          households                               4. Supervise development, and sale    3. Process of beneficiary selection
to targeted household (if need be,
under the system of long-term leases
payable in one up-front payment)
10     Accelerate the          Adopt model sales contracts     ML       1. Drafting the model sales contracts                                    Oct. 97
privatization of State-   fo:+ MJ
owned land             (i). plots developed by        + MF      2. Securing the clearance by all legal,
concession holders; and                 judicial and professional authorities
(ii). plots resulting from               concemed
administrative subdivision



B. HOUSING FINANCE REFORM
NVO.        ObetvsRfrsadactions                             ExcLTsstb   aidot..Perovac  niao                                                  Tinfr
_to be underake       :Agenqc
11    Strengthen the         Substitute to the subsidized    MF       1. Evaluation of CDMH portfolio    Audit report on CDMH portfolio        Oct. 97
financial sector and   CDMH mechanism a durable                 with a view to offering it for buying
fin anacia setorn     mechanism responsive to                  SRH- shares                                                             June 99
mobilize long term     market conditions (SRH)                  2. Study to determine the parameters   Report of feasibility study
resources                                                       for launching SRI-
3. Drafting of Procedural Guide (for    Operational manual completed    June 99
loan and guarantee management),
model contracts and audit TORs.                                         June 99
4. Creation of SRH; capital paid in  I. Law establishing SRH; decree    J
(o.w. transfer of CDMH portfolio);    authorizing SRH to seize mortgage
installation of management; staff  claims held by bankrupt lenders
recruitment and training, equipment,  2. Transfer of CDMH portfolio
5. Initial bond issue                                                   June 99
Create a Security Fund (with a           1. Assessment, by income level, of  Law authorizing the creation of a   June 99
12    Facilitate access to                                   MFLaauhrzntecetinoa                                                               Jne9
credit for low income    State contribution) to improve        the extent of (i) additional guarantee    guarantee fund                                         >
access to housing finance by            needed to secure access to
households             middle and low income                    financing,, and (ii) capacity to
households                              provide mutual support and need of
State support
2. Identification of ceiling for
assistance eligibility (units costing
less than CFAF 5 m. and mneeting
minimum standards)
3. Draft bylaws, regulations and
operational procedures
13  Strcngthen legal   Strengthening the functions     mi       1. Training (magistrates and legal
13     Strengthen legal        and responsibilities of Court   MJ       assistants
foreclosures           clerks                                   2. Computerization (networked with    Computerization plan of Court      June 98
foreclosurIs Dept. of Land Conservation)                                      proceedings



Na.         Objectives            Reforms aid actions'      Execut,      ... Tasks to be carried oat          :Perfornnce idicateOrs          Timeframe
to be undertaken        Agency                                            .... ..
14    Facilitate access to   1. Authorize the use (by        MF        1. Develop simplified procedures   Formal agreement on procedures by    Oct. 97
credit                 concession holding                                                          commercial banks and association of
developers) of the concession                                               professional developers
award as a security to obtain            2. Develop a model contract --                                          Feb. 98
prefinancing from banks                 written preferably in everyday
language
2. Grant fiscal exemptions or  MF        1. Ex-post analysis of exemption   Publication in Annex to Finance Law  Nov. 98
abatements to stimulate        MF        cases since 1971, amount of
housing related borrowing                exemptions and impact on amounts
activities                               of housing loans
2. Develop recommendations on
taxes best eligible for exemptions
and levels of exemption/abatement
15    Stimulate the real     Adopt fiscal incentives to      MF        1. Assessment of the procedures of  Annex to Finance Law                Dec. 99
estate market          stimulate the market                    the Exemptions Committee
2. Assessment of the potential
financial impact of the exemptions
(of VAT, BIC) granted to developers                                                              Un
on real estate promotion
3. Recommendations on exemptions
(taxes subjected to, and levels of
exemptions/abatements)
16    Encourage savings       1. Exempt SRH from BIC         MF        1. Preparation of Finance Law      Annex to Finance Law                 Nov 98
for housing            2. Exempt from the IRVM the
SRH's revenue from its         MF
issuance of bonds
3. Exempt from TPS, the
interest on SHR-financed
housing loans
3. Exempt from the IRC the
interest paid on housing
savings accounts



C. CAPACITY BUILDING
No.  Objectives          R~efiormr and .actons     Eea               ak  ob  are  u                     efrac  nktr                   ierm
tobe ~undrakn           AgecKy
17    Improve Land            1. Diagnose the organization   MF        i. Assess level of activity (e.g.  Interministerial circular establishing  March 99
Management             of Domaine Urbain, Land        + MH      number of acts) and review         new working regulations of
Administration         Conservation, Cadastre, and    + Ml      competence in the departments      Conservation Fon siere and Domaine
Land Registration Depts.                 concemed                           Urbain
2. Define new functions and
linkages between departments
3. Define computerization needs
2. Draw up a plan and           MF       I. Autonomy of management and                                          March. 99
program to strengthen the     + MH       decision-making
Land Conservation Dept. to     + MJ      2. Remuneration for services of
enable it to fulfill its mission         Conservation
to record property and                   3. Retention of powers to make site
mortgages                                visits, launch inquiries, publish, have
access to topographical data, and to
Court clerks
3. Install the Secretariat of the  MH    Legislation to create Secretariat
National Housing Council and   + MF                                         Decree creating technical unit       June 97                 M
appoint Secretary
18    Improve the            Design and install a land data  MH        1. Stocktaking of data existing in the    1. Assemble data in a single base  Jan. 99
information base for    based in particular on docs. in         Depts. of Domaine Urbain, Land     accessible to providers of
information base for    existing Depts.                MF       Conservation and the DCGTX (card    accessible to providers of
mofhtouing the state                                            index of addresses)                mformation components
of the aousing seator                                           2. Udating the 1992 Housing        2. Elimination of redundancies and
statistics                         inconsistencies, rational
3. Definition of specifications,   organization, automation to facilitate
implementation procedures,         access and definition of controlled
resources and timetable            access, process of completing and
4. Execution of initial phase      updating
19    Introduce structures    Carry out media campaign:      MH        1. Design the scenario             Launch of the medis campaign
and tools for          Radio, Press., TV series on    + MF      2. Produce                         (under SHC aegis)
implementing the       land and housing                         3. Carry out the campaign          Hold a national Housing Forum        March 98
housing policy



Na          Objectives            Reforns and actions       Execut.          Tasks to be carried out            Performance Indicators        Timeframe
lo be undertaken        Agency
20     Publicize the land      Compile a manual for "land     ML        1. Develop a first version of the  1. Publication of a first version of the  June 98
development process    development through                      manual, focusing on its instructional    Manual
concession" in two stages:              quality
(i) a preliminary version to            2. Disseminate manual among all
facilitate pilot operations; and        participants in land development
and housing sector: professionals,
(ii) a definitive manual, drawn         banks, staff in ministries
up after a 2-year trial period          3. Monitor its pertinence, adequacy
and effectiveness re. legal, fiscal and
economic implications
4. Establish a final manual after a  2. Publication of the final version of  March 00
2-year trial period               the Manual
21     Bring the real estate   1. Prepare Annex to the         MF       1. Abolish cost-free land grants   Decree defining levels of duties and  Dec. 98
tax base in line with  Finance Law setting the price            2. Assess market prices by zone    taxes on land sales and transfers
the rienatio the of undeveloped State owned               (based on spot surveys)
the orientaion the     land                                     3. Revise prices of State owned land,
reform                                                          in Finance Law
1. Define procedures for regularizing
2. Prepare a legislative text for        and titling new plots
determining duties and taxes   MF       2. Rationalize the system of duties
on land titles, as part of the          (registration, transfers, etc.) in line
new land award procedures               with new procedures, seeking
reductions of duties and taxes
22     Broaden the real        1. Rationalize procedures for   MF       1. Surveys of benchmark premises,  Annex to Finance Law                 Dec.98
estate tax base        assessing real estate tax                by zone and category of housing
2. Develop tax schedule addressing
common situations (e.g. owner- vs.
tenant-occupied)
3. Financial simulation
4. Introduce new schedule in the
preparation of Finance Laws
2. Complete Abidjan            MF       Numbering of entries, and card index                                          97
addressing operation           + Ml     for addressing                      Semi-annual evaluation of the        Dec.(97
"address setting" operation           (first)
3. Implementation of                    Application of taxes                                                     June 99
computerized taxation          MF



iNo.        O t;0400 010tlypbjedwes;:;07-7~; fj : :: :Reforms andactons  Execut  Tasks to betcarid out                    I Perfrnce Indicators  Ti-frame
to be undertaken         gny_____
23 Promote management                                     MJ       I. Survey of 200 households in    Pbiaino  oonrhpCd                     ue9
23     system for public                                      MJ       SOGEFIHA/SICOGI housing           Publication of co-ownership Code     June 98
housing developments                                 + MH      developments
2. Promote a contribution system
graduated on levels of tax burden
24     Promote broader        1. Develop professional and     MJ1      1. Develop special. curricula; select    Advertising the training program  Jan. 99
knowledge of the law    research training at the    + Min. of  teachers and practitioners as trainers
University on urban and real  Educat.   2. Ensure open access for
cstate law                              professionals and practitioners
2. Promote the organization of
the developers' profession
_                .         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 29 -
S-bhdu1le 
:   E     Si>          H      w       WCAC   A                  ---HOU-N-- 
I - Production et Financement de I'Habitat - Elaboration d'une strat6gie d'intervention
pour l'Etat dans la filiere moderne - Rapport de Maitre Banny et Messrs Besne,
Horenfeld et Fian - Novembre 1995.
2 - Politique Sociale de l'Habitat - Proposition Cabinet MCU Fevrier 1995.
3 - Le role des Banques dans lefinancement de l'Habitat
- Note de la Commission Nationale de l'Habitat - J. Mc Gregor - Juin 1995.
4 - Politique sociale de l'Habitat - Proposition MCU - 23 mars 1994.
5 - Analyse des Filieres de production de terrains urbains et de logements
- Resultats de 1'enquete socio-4conomique aupres des menages.
DCGTx /AUA - Juin 1994.
6 - Base cartographique informatisee des indicateurs urbains
- Agglomeration d'Abidjan - Document de presentation - Juin 1994 - DCGTx AUA.
7 - Legislation et Riglersentation en matier defo;cier et d'urbantisme -
Recueil des textes domaniaux et fonciers - Novembre 1994.
8 - Ligislation et Reglementatdon en matiere defoncir et d'urbanismc
- Recueil des textes sur l'urbanisme. - Novembre 1994.
9 - Ligislation dt Reglementation en matikre defoncier et d'urbanismc
- Directlve no. 94-01 du 21 novembre 1994.
10 - Legisladon t Rigklmentation en matiire defoncier et d'urbanisme
- Directive no. 94-01 du 21 novembre 1994 - Fiches instrumentales annexes.
11 - Base cartographique Informatisle des indicateurs urbains
de l'Agglomeration d'Abidjan - DCGTx - Octobre 1994.
12 - Note intitulee "Critques par la Banque Mondiak de la gestdon domanlck et
fonciere" - Propositions de solutions - Note au Ministre des Finances par M. Le Directeur
G6n6ral des Impots - 12 novembre 1994.



- 30 -
13 - Le Compte de Mobilisation de l'Habitat et Il'amenagement des quartiers sous
equipes & AbidJan - Rapport de M. J.L. Venard du 15 juin 1994.
14 - Cote d'Ivoire - Stratdgie du Secteur Urbain - Banque Mondiale - 8 Juin 1994.
15 - Land Rigkts in C6te d'Ivoire - Survey and prospects ifor project intervention -
John R. Heath. World Bank Technical Paper No: 238 - December 1993.
16 - La Banque de l'Habitat de COte d'lvoire - Une Banque privee au service de
1'14abitat Social. La lettre de la Primature no. 17 - Mai 1993
17 - Enquete loyers sup l marchi libre sur l'agglomiration d'Abidjan
- Rapport de synthese - DCGTx - Novembre 1993.
18 - L 'Habitat Locatif e* Abidjan
- Article Villes et Developpement - M. Arnaud -1993 ?
19 - Habitat- Foncier en Cdte d'Ivoire
- Rapport de mission de M. Biancale pour le Ministere de la Cooperation et du
Developpement - Decembre 1992.
20 - Acceliration des procddures di'immatriculatdon des pirim w*cs de lotsesmnb.
Lettre du Premier Ministre en date du 14 avril 1992 au Ministre de la Construction et de
l'Urbanisme.
21 - Etude sup ka rforme de lImpdtfoncier
- Projet d'Appui Technique a la Direction Generale des Imp6ts - DCGTx - Juin 1991.
22 - Mithode t test d'application pour la creation d'unfichkersimplifid des parceUes
et du bati d'Abidjan. AUA -DCGTx - Mars 1991.
23 - Note de presentation de la Direction des Ventes Immobilires - DVI - Janvier 1991.
24 - Stcuritd Foncire ctDcveloppement Urbain - Le projet Sokoura - Aboisso en C6te
d'Ivoire - E4J AFVP Ministere de la Cooperation - Decembre 1991.
25 - Rapport de Mission de supervision des operations d'Habitat de la Banque mondiale
le 3 mai 1991 - Connaisance du march5 du logemwnt etproposidow pour ue
evolution de la poltque d'Habiat vers des objecdfs soclaux - Rapport de M. M.
Arnaud.
26 - Organisatdon du systcnh de production foncibre & Abidjan
- Rapport de mission ACT- ECOGES - Juin 1991.



- 31 -
27 - Politique de l'Habitat - Diagnostic et propositions - DCGTX - Mars 1991.
28 - Reforme de l'Imposition Fonciere et Immobilifre
- Note/ Compte rendu de I'AUA/DCGTx - 15 avril 1991.
29 - Impact d'une modulation des taux et des quotitis de refinancement
sur 1'activite du CDMH - DCGTx - Juillet 1990.
30 - Mission de supervision de l'Atelier d'Urbanisme de la ville d'Abidjan - Janvier
1990 - Jean Louis Venard - AREA International.
31 - Impact d'une riduction de la participation du BSIE sur l'activitd et la situation
financiereprivisionnelle du CDMH - DCGTx - Juin 1990.
32 - Dicret No 86451 du 25juin 1986 determinant la repartition des comp6tences en
matiere d'urbanisme et de construction entre l'Etat, les communes et la ville d'Abidjan.
33 - Etude sectorielle de l'Habitat en C8te d'lvoiwe
- RHUDO-USAID - PADCO - Mars 1983.
34 - Propositions pour le Financement de l'Habitat Social en C8te d'Ivoire -
Pierre Mayer (Inspecteur des Finances) - Cooperation et Am6nagement -
Decembre 1983.
3



A



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26952
>  K    o8o3- ko   MALI                                                  To Hobog  I
( _    ,  r 5  __-    (  z    ,-tie                                    2BURKINA FASO                         
M oMoniniW    r              -'          Begue                                                                                                                       COTE   D'IVOIRE
j   =d       (i     0 I         nrkes5edougou        J; <           >Tehini    \        a    t                                          _-    PAVED ROADS
K.,                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS
JO HOTIO                                                                                                                                                                              -'! - v A9o < = RAILWAY
D"                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
G U I NIE AA    j          8.\  V   '          t   0t         X       9  aodoFou    tFIr69'                  a                $     (>           g          f   To Bole                               3    DEPARTMENT CDPITALS
\ M ,<\ \                                                                                                                          0    OTHER TOWNS
+     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
<   /     a<   \  0>KooA  NiokoronT wo   oi, k                                                                                                t     OTHER AIRPORTS
Dobko                                                                               j..   PORTS
RIV> RIVERS
BH  <=,,}                                         ,\ /iKo sod /4rtolaV  X  > _ okdou\ -""-"  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES  H
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To NiH46Z  h 
0   20  40  60  80  100  120KILOMEIERS
GoelIR             ' ~~~To K-,!o
k  ~~~ ~d               I 0                                                 i                                                        %\ i / So  l                                                     Hn / ;" I p)a~~~~~~..u  i 
SSOUK                                                                                        Th. 6-dPc:  -.-, Gulf-tT -oo -dors o    o   D   yOt oh  GHooO j
ho 0 tOo mop 'i- otp ""T'T 00 ,d p   h h Wor ks Hok rop
:D.   -k.                                                                                  .                                                             -:   :.g- t -  t. 19.:   g-   ,f -'  Xoto -    -  . o, t 0
ulhlo   ORiO          r    , O      b                                          Di.bro       ,             I       : r 7''      '    G H A;' N A                            or ::0ptoo oP 'oh hiKo.- iGH
6p                                                                                                                        ~~2'                                                 0
6'                                                                                                     r             3   Adoopk -R                                                              MAURITAN A
D'  NA-         gboji                                                     H    I   <      SHEGAL\j                
u ly"             Nk1                                      ,NI     RATE
Ao0omo 0A6p6  *AbOSSO                                       OW 5r N- -% H,Gl U "I         UHKINA   "NN-
00]  6D9b96  'OH.  (    < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~FASO
GLOIN E  AOE                         ~            
N                                        v/        0  '~~~~~~~~~p-~~~~~~            ~~~                                                             ~~~'~~voinu       I ~~~~L  4GHANAIj
Mo BIo RtHA "S               k
JUNE 1 996









IMAGING
Report No.: I        7108   IVC
Type:     TAN



