Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N036 IVC
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Land Management and Housing Finance Reforms Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International Development 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of International Development Association
Dated December 22, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N036 IVC 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Administrator has received a letter dated March 24, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform 
urban land management and housing finance along market mechanisms (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Française de Développement 
(CFD) a loan (the CFD Loan) in an amount in French Francs equivalent to one hundred 
Page  2
thousand dollars ($100,000) to assist in financing Part B.1 (a) (i) of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CFD; and  
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
the term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
the terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
a new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator from time to time; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries.”; 
(d)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”; 
(f)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity; and 
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
Page  3
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“CAA” means Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement, a public financial 
institution of the Borrower;
(d)
“ML” means Ministère du Logement, du Cadre de Vie et de l’Environnement, 
the Borrower’s ministry responsible for housing;
(e)
“MF” means Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, the Borrower’s 
ministry responsible for finance;
(f)
“MJ” means Ministère de la Justice et des Libertés Publiques, the 
Borrower’s ministry responsible for justice;
(g)
“HSC” means the Project Housing Steering Committee established by the 
Borrower’s Arrêté Interministériel No. 97-436/MLCVE/MEF/MJLP, dated May 30, 1997; 
(h)
“Coordination Unit” means the unit established by the Borrower’s Arrêté 
Interministériel No. 97-436/MLCVE/MEF/MJLP, dated May 30, 1997; 
(i)
“Service du Domaine Urbain” means the service within ML in charge of the 
management of the private property of the Borrower in urban areas; 
(j)
“Office of Cadaster” means the Directorate responsible for Conservation 
Foncière, Cadastre, Enregistrement et Timbre within MF; 
(k)
“Concession d’Aménagement Foncier” means the concession entrusted by the 
Borrower or the Borrower’s urban communes to a private or public sector developer for 
developing an area of urban land pursuant to an agreement (convention de concession 
d’aménagement) setting forth the rights and obligations of the parties thereto and 
including technical specifications, all in accordance with the provisions of the Law 
and Decree referred to in Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement;
(l)
“AGEF” means Agence de Gestion Foncière; 
(m)
“SRH” means Société de Refinancement Hypothécaire; 
(n)
“Fonds de Caution” means the fund to be established and operated as a 
security fund; 
(o)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual outlining the procurement, 
disbursement and other arrangements for the implementation of the Project, adopted 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; and 
Page  4
(p)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2008 and ending July 15, 
2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
Page  5
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Administrator determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through ML, MF and MJ, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
urban land management and housing finance practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution for the financing of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF an account (the Project Account) in 
CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF three 
hundred million (CFAF 300,000,000); 
(c)
thereafter, replenish said account at least on a quarterly basis, up to 
the amount of the initial contribution, or whenever its balance shall be less than the 
equivalent of CFAF one hundred million (CFAF 100,000,000); and 
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively for payments made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services for the Project not otherwise financed by the Interim Fund Credit. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; or
(b) 
the Borrower’s Law or Decree referred to in Section 6.01 (g) of this 
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the carrying out of any part of the Project;
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that the events specified in 
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual in form and substance 
acceptable to the Administrator; 
(b)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(d)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project, satisfactory to the Administrator;  
(e)
the work programs for the Project and corresponding budget referred to in 
Section I (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the period after the Effective Date 
and covering the calendar year 1998, have been received and found satisfactory by the 
Administrator;
(f)
the following staff of the Coordination Unit referred to in Section II 
(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been employed and have assumed their 
functions: the lawyer, the procurement officer and the accountant; 
(g)
the Borrower has published in its Journal Officiel its Law on Convention 
de Concession d’Aménagement Foncier and the Decree portant application of said Law, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Administrator; and 
(h)
the Borrower has published in its Journal Officiel, the Arrêté 
Interministériel No. 97-436/MLCVE/MEF/JMLP, dated May 30, 1997, referred to in Section 
1.02 (g) and (h) of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
Page  8
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoué Koffi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
Page  9
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund
     Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for Part
  2,000,000
70%
A.3(c) and (d) of the
Project
(2)
Equipment
    300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
 3,500,000
100%
and training
(4)
Operating costs
   200,000
40%
(5)
Unallocated
 1,300,000
TOTAL
 7,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means incremental expenditures related to 
mission travel and subsistence allowances for local staff involved in the Project 
execution, contractual staff salaries, operation and maintenance of Project vehicles 
and equipment, and office supplies. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR730,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1997. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) under 
contracts for goods and civil works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) under 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
and (c) under contracts for the employment of individual consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the detailed 
definition and the beginning of implementation of its Program, which aims: (i) to 
promote the development of a market for the provision of serviced land and housing, 
especially to moderate and low income households; (ii) to foster private investment in 
housing by developing a market-oriented housing finance system; and (iii) to 
Page  10
strengthen the capacities of public and private sector institutions participating in 
urban land development and management and those concerned with housing delivery.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A:
Definition and Inception of Reforms in Urban Land Development and 
Management
1.
Design, establishment and launching of the Urban Land Management Agency (Agence 
de Gestion Foncière, AGEF) to be in charge of constituting urban land reserves to be 
offered on the market on behalf of Service du Domaine Urbain, including:
(a) 
definition of AGEF’s functions, responsibilities and resource needs, and 
drafting of AGEF’s by-laws and operational procedures;
(b)
preparation of model conventions de concession d’aménagement and the 
specifications (cahier des charges) to be annexed thereto, between AGEF and private 
developers for the purpose of land and housing development;
(c)
preparation of model differed delivery sales contracts (ventes en l’état 
futur d’achèvement) providing inter alia for installment payments by plot purchasers 
to developers, so as to permit a reduction of developers’ financing needs and of 
development costs;
(d)
definition of the legal arrangements and procedures to permit access by 
households (through sale or rent) to Borrower-owned serviced land or housing 
facilities;
(e)
definition of the scope of activities of, and the rules and regulations 
applicable to, private land and housing developers, as well as the rules and 
regulations for the authority responsible for enforcing said rules and regulations;
(f)
development, for ML’s use, of service standards compatible with the 
financial capabilities of targeted households;
(g)
development of assessment criteria to be used by AGEF for selecting 
private developers; and
(h)
preparation of a real estate guide for private developers. 
2.
(a)
Streamlining and improving the administration of land management 
including a redefinition of role and responsibilities of the concerned directorates 
within ML and MF, through the provision of technical advisory services.
(b)
Improving the operational capacity of the Coordination Unit and the 
technical units established for the purposes of the Project in ML, MF and MJ, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
(c)
Developing and carrying out a training program in urban development and 
real estate laws for ML, MF and MJ staff and law students attending the University of 
Abidjan, through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
legal documentation.
(d)
Designing and establishing a system for the efficient management of 
community housing developments, through the carrying out of a qualitative survey of 
households living in housing units held by Société de Gestion et de Financement de 
l’Habitat (SOGEFIHA), Société Immobilière de Construction et de Gestion de Côte 
d’Ivoire (SICOGI) and the ML Service des Bâtiments Civils (SBC) and the provision of 
technical advisory services.
(e)
Strengthening the capacity of the Office of Cadaster and Service du 
Domaine Urbain: (i) to grant final registration notices (immatriculations définitives) 
to owners of about 95,000 plots in which certifications of edification (constats de 
mise en valeur) are pending and to holders of plots for which allocation notices 
(lettres d’attribution) or temporary concessions (concessions provisoires) have been 
Page  11
granted; and (ii) to repossess plots left underdeveloped or insufficiently developed; 
all through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment.
(f)
Designing and establishing a computerized data base covering land and 
housing, to be used by ML, MF, MJ and professionals in both the public and private 
sectors involved in urban development, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of computer equipment.
(g)
Preparation and carrying out under the aegis of HSC of a public 
information campaign on the reform of urban land development and management, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
(h)
Carrying out studies: (i) to review the system of taxes on land 
registration and transfers and develop recommendations for the revision of said taxes; 
and (ii) to review the procedures for assessing real estate values and taxation and 
develop recommendations for the rationalization of said procedures.
(i)
Designing and establishing a computerized system for the management of 
real estate taxation, through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of computer equipment. 
3.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of AGEF to constitute a Borrower-owned land 
reserve, through the settlement of customary land rights (purge des droits 
coutumiers), the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of ML and MF in land titling regularization in 
two selected communes within Abidjan, including the survey of land, the testing of 
improved regularization procedures and the collection of required documentation in 
connection with said procedures and related processing, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
(c)
Carrying out two operations to service land under a convention de 
concession d’aménagement, with a private sector developer to test the criteria and 
procedures for the selection of developers and to establish standard procedures for 
the supervision of developers by AGEF and ML, through the provision of technical 
advisory and engineering services and the carrying out of civil works.
(d)
Carrying out two serviced land operations (lotissements à équipement 
minimum) for the benefit of households with a monthly income below CFAF 200,000 in 
1996 terms, to test the affordability and marketability of plots meeting different 
service standards, through the provision of technical advisory and engineering 
services, the carrying out of civil works and the acquisition of equipment.
PART B: 
Definition and Inception of Reforms in Housing Finance
1.
Design of a private sector housing finance system, including the establishment 
of a secondary mortgage financing facility (Société de Refinancement Hypothécaire, 
SRH) and of a guarantee fund (Fonds de Caution), both privately managed and with 
private majority participation, including:
(a) 
definition of the terms and conditions for the establishment and 
operation of SRH through: (i) the valuation of the assets of Compte de Mobilisation 
pour l’Habitat (CDMH), in preparation of the transfer of said assets to SRH; (ii) the 
assessment of terms under which different constituents of the private sector consider 
becoming SRH shareholders; (iii) the conditions to be met for the mobilization of 
long-term resources by SRH, including issuance of bonds; (iv) the terms and conditions 
of access by the banking system to SRH refinancing; and (v) the definition of 
prudential standards to be complied with by SRH; and drafting of SRH’s by-laws and 
operational procedures and definition of its resource needs; 
(b)
definition of the terms and conditions for the establishment of Fonds de 
Caution, to provide an additional guarantee for serviced land loans and housing loans 
for low cost units meeting minimum physical standards; and drafting of Fonds de 
Caution’s by-laws and operational procedures and definition of its resource needs; and 
Page  12
(c)
definition of the operational rules and procedures to enable developers 
awarded a convention de concession d’aménagement to use said convention as security to 
obtain loans from the banking system to help meet the financing needs of said 
developers.
2.
Carrying out studies:
(a)
to review the feasibility of tax exemptions on interests on 
SRH-refinanced housing loans and on SRH profits, to encourage savings for housing 
investment purposes; and
(b)
to analyze the effect of the existing tax regime on the building 
industry, and development of recommendations for the revision of said taxation.
3.
Strengthening the capability of the Borrower’s institutions responsible for 
enforcement of foreclosures, through: 
(a)
the carrying out of a training program for Court clerks, magistrates, 
concerned banking staff and MF staff, in the assessment of real estate property 
values; and 
(b)
the computerization of Court proceedings in land management and the 
establishment of information channels between the Courts, the Office of Cadaster and 
Service du Domaine Urbain, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
the acquisition of computer equipment.
*    *    * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: Preference 
for Domestically Manufactured Goods The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and works 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  13
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Administrator a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Administrator a copy of 
the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications Services requiring the most 
appropriate qualifications and references and where the need for preparing and 
evaluating a competitive proposal is not justified under Part B.1 (a) and (b) of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants and other contractual staff employed in Project units 
under Part A.1 and 2 (b) of the Project for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only firms that are registered or incorporated in, and individuals and personal who 
are nationals of, Participating Countries shall be eligible to compete for services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Section I.
General
(a)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall apply 
the policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Implementation Manual and, 
except as otherwise agreed with the Administrator, shall not amend the Implementation 
Procedures in a manner which, in the opinion of the Administrator, would materially 
affect the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, not later than October 31 of each year, beginning October 31, 1998, the 
Borrower shall, through HSC, furnish to the Administrator, for its review and 
approval, detailed work programs and budgets in respect of Project activities for the 
following year.
(c)
With respect to the provision of technical advisory services under Parts 
A.1. and B.1. of the Project and the carrying out of studies under Parts A.2 (h) and 
B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through HSC: (i) furnish to the Administrator, 
for its review and comments, the draft proposals, reports and recommendations made by 
said services; (ii) finalize said proposals and reports, taking into account the 
Administrator’s comments; and (iii) promptly thereafter, implement such 
recommendations as determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator.
(d)
For the purposes of Part A.1 and Part B.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that: 
(i)
AGEF shall be established as an autonomous land management entity 
and 
operating pursuant to a Borrower’s decree, with functions 
and operational and 
management procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator, not later than 
December 31, 1997; 
(ii)
SRH shall be established as a secondary mortgage financing 
facility and 
operating as a private sector entity, with functions 
and operational and 
management procedures satisfactory to 
the Administrator, not later than June 
30, 1999; and 
(iii)
Fonds de caution shall be established and operating as a security 
fund, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, not later than June 
30, 1999.
(e)
Not later than December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly 
with the Administrator, a comprehensive review to assess the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project.  Said review shall cover, inter alia: 
(i)
the extent to which the institutional objectives of the Project 
are being 
achieved; 
(ii)
an assessment of the impact achieved by the Project so far on land 
management 
and housing finance reforms including a detailed assessment 
of Part A.3 of the 
Project, the sustainability of its achievements, and 
actions required to 
mitigate possible negative inputs;
(iii)
the extent to which the parties concerned in the private and 
public sectors 
deem the following factors as permitting the 
establishment and launching of 
SRH: land title registration and 
collateral mortgage taking and realization; 
(iv)
compliance with the audit and other obligations of the Borrower 
included in 
this Agreement; 
(v)
timely availability of counterpart funding and disbursement 
performance under 
the Project; 
(vi)
the performance of technical advisory services under the Project; 
Page  16
(vii)
procurement under the Project; 
(viii) performance as against key indicators, referred to in paragraph 
(f) of this 
Section, agreed upon with the Administrator; and 
(ix)
the Borrower’s plan for the future operation of the Project and 
feasibility of 
the establishment of the reform package.
(f)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about 
April 30 and October 31 of each 
year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, on the 
progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(iii)
review with the Administrator, by May 31 and November 30 of each 
year, or such 
later date as the Administrator shall request, the 
report referred to in 
paragraph (ii) of this Section and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report 
and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
Section II. 
Project Management 
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the Housing Steering Committee (HSC) with, 
inter alia, the following responsibilities: (i) approval of main Project orientations; 
(ii) review and approval of annual work programs and budgets for the Project, as well 
as the report referred to in Section I (f) (iii) of this Schedule; (iii) review and 
approval of proposals, reports and recommendations under Parts A.1, A.2 (h), B.1 and 
B.2 of the Project; and (iv) facilitation and problem solving on issues affecting the 
execution of the Project.
(b)
HSC shall be chaired by the ML Minister or his representative.  Its 
membership shall include the MF and MJ Ministers or their representatives, and other 
members, as deemed appropriate by the ML, MF and MJ Ministers.  The Coordinator 
referred to in paragraph (c) hereunder shall act as secretary of HSC.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain the Coordination Unit which shall be 
responsible for overall coordination of financial and administrative matters 
concerning the Project, under the supervision of HSC.  Said Unit shall be headed by a 
Project Coordinator and shall include a financial expert, a lawyer, a procurement 
officer, an engineer/developer and an accountant, all on a full-time basis and 
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall maintain a Project technical unit in each of the three 
following ministries, ML, MF and MJ, headed by a senior officer who shall report on 
progress activities to the Coordinator referred to in paragraph (c) above.  The terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience of the senior officers shall be 
satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Section III.  Execution of Part A.3 (c) and (d) of the Project
(a)
For the purpose of servicing land under Part A.3 (c) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through ML, cause AGEF to enter into a convention de concession 
Page  17
d’aménagement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, with private 
sector developers who shall be responsible for the sale of serviced plots.
(b)
For the purpose of servicing land under Part A.3 (d) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through ML, enter into one or several agreement(s) with private sector 
developers, and be responsible for the sale or lease on a long-term basis (baux 
emphythéotiques) of serviced lots to low income beneficiaries, all on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) utilize the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
allocated to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to prefinance in part up to a maximum of 70% of  the land development costs 
for the operations included in Part A. 3 (c) and (d) of the Project; and (ii) ensure 
that repayments made by plot beneficiaries and/or purchasers are credited to AGEF.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 600,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 300,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
Page  18
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  19
