Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13630
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2649-IND)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (December, 1985)
US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,100
During Implementation (March, 1986 - June, 1993)
US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 1,120-2,050
Current (March, 1994)
US$1.00 = Rupiah (Rp) 2,105
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
ADB         -      Asian Development Bank
AOU         -      Advanced Operations Unit
APBN        -      Central Government Budget
BAPPENAS  -        National Development Planning Agency
CIDA        -      Canadian International Development Agency
DGWRD       -      Directorate General of Water Resources Development
EEC         -      European Economic Community
EOM         -      Efficient Operation and Maintenance
ERR         -      Economic Rate of Return
GOI         -      Government of Indonesia
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
IPEDA       -      Land Tax (Now replaced by PBB)
ISF         -      Irrigation Service Fee
ISSP        -      Irrigation Subsector Project
JIWMP       -      Java  Irrigation  Improvement  and  Water  Resources
Management Project
LCB         -      Local Competitive Bidding
MOF         -      Ministry of Finance
MPW         -      Ministry of Public Works
MTR         -      Mid-Term Review
O&M         -      Operation and Maintenance
PBB         -      Property and Building Tax
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
PME         -      Project Monitoring and Evaluation
PRIS        -      Provincial Irrigation Service
RSI         -      Resident Staff Indonesia
ROM         -      Reference Operating Model
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIE)ENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2649-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Central and West Java
Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2649-IND). Parts I and III were prepared by the
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was the third in a series of provincially based operations with the objective
of improving the capacity and efficiency of the provincial irrigation services to design and construct
small and medium-scale irrigation systems, through the implementation of physical works and on-the-
job in-service training. The project financed a six year time slice of the provincial programs which
specifically included (a) rehabilitation of 60,000 ha of existing systems and construction of 74,000 ha
of small and medium-scale schemes; (b) preparation of detailed design for the rehabilitation or
upgrading of existing systems, and development of new systems, totalling in all 140,000 ha; (c) land
surveys; (d) construction of a new 11,000 ha run-of-the-river scheme (Dumpil); and (e) consultancy
services for the on-the-job training, project co-ordination and special studies.
The provincial design and works programs were completed under cost, and the re-
estimated rates of return were the same as, or greater, than at appraisal. However, the outcome of
the Dumpil project (12 percent of total project costs) was less satisfactory. Soil survey and canal
design proved to be inadequate and there was a 20 percent overall cost increase and implementation
delays. The reestimated rate of return for this component was 6 percent. Overall, however, the
institutional impact of the project was substantial, sustainability is considered likely, and the project
outcome is judged as satisfactory.
The Borrower, in Part II, notes that a further increase in the capacity of the provincial
services will be necessary, that benefits may not be as great as forecast, and that there continue to be
problems with user support of scheme operations and maintenance.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. An
audit is planned.
/ 
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2649-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface          ...........................................                                i
Evaluation Summary  ....................................   ii-v
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .....                                   1
Project Identity  ...........            .......................                 1
Project Background  ........              .......................                1
Project Objectives and Description  ......................                       2
Project Design and Organization  .......................                         3
Project Implementation  .............................                            5
Project Results  ...........             .......................    10
Project Sustainability   ..............................    13
Bank Performance  .........               .......................    14
Borrower Performance  .............................    16
Project Relationship  ........            .......................    17
Consulting Services  ...............................    18
Project Documentation and Data  .......................    20
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   21
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .....................    28
Map: Central and West Java including Dumpil Subproject (IBRD 19116)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oicial duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2649-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Central and West Java
Provincial Irrigation Development Project for which a Loan of US$166 million (Loan
2649-IND) was made to the Government of Indonesia in March 1986. The project was
cofinanced by an EEC grant of US$18 million towards feasibility studies, design work and
the construction of the Dumpil barrage under Dumpil Irrigation component under the
project. The Loan Closing Date was extended from December 31, 1992 to June 30, 1993.
T'he last disbursement was made on November 18, 1993. The undisbursed Loan balance
of US$1,637,132.31 (approximately 1.0 percent of the Loan amount) was canceled on
November 18, 1993.
This PCR was prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued in June
1989. Parts I and III were prepared by a Bank (EA3AG) mission based on: (i) a visit to
Indonesia in January/February 1994; (ii) on a PCR for the provincial irrigation
development components of the project that had been issued by the Borrower in December
1992 (prepared by Directorate Irrigation-I of the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development/Ministry of Public Works with assistance from consultants); and (iii) a
review of the Bank's project files.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2649-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.           The project's main objectives were:  (a) to improve the capacity and
efficiency of the Central and West Java Provinces to design and construct small- and
medium-scale irrigation systems, thus allowing DGWRD to focus on major irrigation
works and multipurpose water use development; (b) to improve cost recovery to provide
funding for operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; (c) to reduce food grain
imports and foreign exchange expenditures for rice; and (d) enhance employment and
incomes in the agricultural sector.
Implementation Experience
ii.          Project implementation during the first project year was slow, mainly due
to inadequate counterpart funding. Under Part I (Central and West Java Provincial
Irrigation Development) project implementation accelerated towards end 1987 and was
sustained until completion at end 1992. No particular problems were encountered during
implementation of Part I. The physical SAR targets set for Part I of the project were
substantially exceeded. The fundamental aims to decentralize irrigation development
activities and strengthen provincial institutions have largely been achieved.  The
implementation of Part II (Dumpil Irrigation) of the project started with a setback when
it was discovered that the "detailed" design for the irrigation network were more of
feasibility level design. Unforeseen resources were required to bring the designs up to the
required standards and prepare construction drawings. The situation was aggravated by
(i) new developments which had taken place in the project area since the project was
designed; and (ii) the discovery of unstable soils in many parts of the project area. The
above factors resulted in significant design modifications and additional structures, which
substantially increased the cost for the Dumpil project. They also triggered contract
amendments for additional works and extension of completion dates. Additional remedial
works are still required. As yet no irrigation has been provided to the project area. The
Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping under Part III of the project were completed
successfully and as scheduled.



- Hi -
Results
iii.         The results of Part I (Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
Development) were highly satisfactory. The SAR targets were exceeded and additional
rehabilitation and turnover designs covering about 60,000 and 100,000 ha respectively for
implementation under the follow-on JIWMP (signed in July 1994) were developed. The
provincial and district organizations under the project performed well.  Project
implementation was fully integrated into the existing regional organizations and no special
project implementation units were established. The total cost for Part I ($166.3 million
or 67 percent of overall project cost) was about 28 percent lower, in US Dollar terms, than
the estimated cost (including contingencies) at Appraisal.  Project monitoring and
evaluation (PME) units were established in the Provincial organizations and their work was
used to analyze the project at completion. The results show that the overall ERR is
estimated at 41 percent for Central Java and 28 percent for West Java compared with
25 percent and 28 percent at appraisal. The results of Part II (Dumpil Irrigation) are
less satisfactory. Implementation of Dumpil was problematic and suffered a 20 percent
cost overrun. (Actual Dumpil cost $59.6 million or 24 percent of total project cost). This
takes into account the cost of the diversion dam, which was financed by an EEC grant, and
completed 37 percent (or $5.5 million) below the appraisal estimate. The revised ERR has
been estimated at about 6 percent compared to the SAR estimate of 13 percent. Additional
inspection roads and canal stability works are still to be implemented. Completion of
Dumpil is expected by FY95/96. The studies and mapping activities under Part III of the
project were carried out as scheduled. The IPEDA reclassification component has resulted
in substantially improved tax collection and studies financed under the project were
essential for the formulation of new Bank supported projects, such as Dam Safety and
Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management projects. Overall, the
ERR for Parts I and II of the project, covering 91 percent of project cost was 27 percent
(no ERR was calculated for Part II).
Sustainability
iv.          Under Part I the project improved the Provincial capacity and efficiency
to design and construct small and medium  scale irrigation projects.  Following
rehabilitation and expansion of schemes agricultural production and cropping intensities
have increased. The sustainability of these agricultural benefits much depends on the on-
going efforts to introduce and maintain efficient operation and maintenance (EOM). With
the strengthening and expansion of the technical, financial and institutional aspects of EOM
under the on-going ISSP-II project (Ln. 3392-IND) and under the JIWMP project (Ln.
3762-IND) as well as GOI's general support for O&M, project benefits are expected to
be fully sustainable throughout the project's economic life. For the Dumpil Irrigation
Project (Part II) to become sustainable, several technical issues need to be addressed and
resolved.  They range from  (i) completion of tertiary systems; (ii) operating and
maintaining canals in unstable soils; and (iii) optimizing utilization of the investments
made. Operation and maintenance deficiencies caused by unstable canal banks threaten
the sustainability of the project and further reduce the economic return of the investments
made for the Dumpil project. Some remedial works have already been carried out, but
considerable additional works comprising canal lining and retaining walls to the sideslopes,
are required. Under the recently approved JIWMP (Ln. 3762-IND) support is provided



- iv -
for the implementation of remedial works on the Dumpil scheme at an estimated cost of
$9.0 million. However, the support is subject to the Bank receiving (i) acceptable design
and cost estimates for the works and (ii) evidence of adequate water availability during the
low flow season.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
v.           The overall conclusions are that the project achieved its objectives in terms
of physical development and institutional strengthening. The most important lessons learnt
under the project are:
(a)   the "detailed" designs for the Dumpil project should have been reviewed
more carefully at the time of appraisal. Failure to check that the designs
were based on accurate field data resulted in costly design revisions and a
substantially lower ERR than projected at appraisal;
(b)   while provincial staff on Java is now capable to manage large numbers of
design and construction tasks each year, continued attention needs to be
paid to ensure good quality;
(c)   the design and construction phases for a particular scheme should not
overlap;
(d)   the establishment of design units in the PRIS have improved provincial
capacity to undertake and supervise design work;
(e)   for the construction of works maximum use has to be made of the dry
season. Where needed major works should be constructed through multi-
year contracts;
(f)    O&M procedures have to be made scheme specific.
(g)    PME activities are essential for scheme performance and for proposing
modifications in future works.
vi.          The project successfully incorporated the lessons learnt from the East Java
Provincial project (LN 2119-IND). This applied in particular to the redirection of
consultant inputs towards the strengthening of planning, design and construction quality
capabilities. The project confirmed also the need for GOI/DGWRD to give priority to
projects on Java which aim at improving the efficiency of utilizing water resources in the
face of competing demands from agriculture, municipal and industrial purposes.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln 2649-IND)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project name: Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development Project
Loan No.      Loan 2649-IND
RVP Unit      East Asia Region
Country      Indonesia
Sector      : Agriculture
Subsector    : Irrigation
2.    Background
2.1         Although Indonesia in 1985 was already self-sufficient in rice, steady
increases in national rice consumption and the limited scope for expanding irrigated
agriculture on Java, made it necessary for the country to intensify food production by
rehabilitating irrigation systems where required and by expanding existing medium and
small village irrigation schemes. At the time, the major national objectives for the
agricultural and rural sector included the creation of productive employment to raise
incomes of the rural poor, the increase of domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand and to ensure productive, sustainable use of the country's varied land, water and
other natural resources. In this context it was widely felt that in Java Governrnent needed
to provide further support to increase food production to a sustainable self-sufficiency
level, thus reducing food grain imports and foreign exchange expenditures for rice and
enhance employment and incomes in the agricultural sector. At the same time it was felt
that this would be difficult to achieve, without decentralization of responsibilities to
provincial irrigation services and in addressing institutional issues related to physical and
financial aspects of irrigation development at provincial and local government levels.
2.2         The Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development Project was
initiated at the request of the Government of Indonesia to support its program of irrigation
development in the Provinces of Central and West Java, comprising: rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems, upgrading for efficient operation and maintenance, development
of new or expansion of existing medium and small-scale schemes, strengthening of the
provincial irrigation services and reclassification of irrigated lands for reassessment of land
taxes. In addition GOI requested support for the construction and development of a new
11,000 ha run-of-the-river diversion scheme on the Lusi river.  The activities were
considered in line with GOI's goal of increasing irrigation development capacities at



provincial and regional levels in order to reduce demands on the Central Government's
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) and improve indirect cost recovery. GOI also requested assistance for
training, project management and construction supervision, studies and detailed designs for
new projects.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The project's principal objectives were: (a) to improve the capacity and
efficiency of the Central and West Java Provinces to design and construct small- and
medium-scale irrigation systems, thus allowing DGWRD to focus on major irrigation
works and multipurpose water use development; and (b) to improve cost recovery to
provide funding for operation and maintenance of irrigation systems.
3.2         The project comprised of three main parts: Part I - Central and West Java
Provincial Irrigation Development; Part II - Dumpil Irrigation and Part III - Studies and
IPEDA Surveys and Mapping. They covered the following:
Part I:      Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development
A:   Irrigation Development
(i)  rehabilitation of 60,000 ha of existing irrigation systems, upgrading of
existing rehabilitated systems (55,000 ha) and construction of 74,300 ha of
small (50 to 500 ha) and medium (500 to 4,000 ha) scale schemes;
(ii)   preparation of detailed designs for the rehabilitation of existing schemes
(90,000 ha) and the development of small and medium scale schemes
(45,000 ha) and for upgrading existing systems (50,000 ha) to be used as
pilot training areas for field staff;
B:    Institutional Development and Facilities
(i)   consultant services for on-the-job training, project coordination, construction
supervision and studies for future projects;
(ii)   construction of offices and support for field training, monitoring and
evaluation and strengthening of water users associations;
(iii)   procurement of vehicles and miscellaneous office, survey and hydrological
equipment;
Part II:    Dumpil Irrigation
(i)   construction of a new diversion scheme on the Lusi River at Dumpil in
Central Java serving about 11,300 ha of new irrigable land;



- 3 -
(ii)   engineering and construction supervision of the Dumpil scheme;
Part III:    Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
(i)   detailed design of drainage works in Dolok-Penggaron and studies as well
as related design of irrigation and drainage designs for the Tuntang-Jragung
area;
(ii)  feasibility study and detailed design of the Bongo irrigation project in North
Sulawesi.
(iii)   aerial photographs, rectified photomaps, demarcation of property boundaries
and listing of land owners for villages covering about 670,000 ha, which
irrigation systems were rehabilitated under Bank and ADB assistance;
(iv)   provision of equipment and training for the IPEDA central and provincial
staff; and
(v)   technical assistance for review and supervision of mapping and survey
activities.
4.    Project Design and Organization
Part I:     Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development
4.1         The fundamental aim of the project was to strengthen the provincial
irrigation services through the implementation of physical works and on-the-job in-service
training. The design of the provincial irrigation development activities in Central and
West Java under the project benefitted from lessons learnt by GOI and the Bank from
completed Bank-assisted irrigation development operations and from the then ongoing East
Java Irrigation Project (Irrigation XVII; Ln 2119-IND). Key lessons included the need to
fully integrate the project into the provincial organization, the possibility of expanding on-
the-job training to irrigation districts in the provinces, improve O&M services, provide
technical and administrative support to Water Users associations and promote efficient
water use. The lessons were incorporated in the project design. Similar to the East Java
Irrigation Project the focus was on a large number of small schemes which since their
establishment had received little maintenance and/or rehabilitation attention.
4.2         The introduction of efficient operation and maintenance of the main systems,
which was not a formal project component, became an important activity under the project
after GOI in 1986 took a series of policy related measures to improve the introduction of
efficient O&M, which was a key component under ISSP-I and II. This was particularly
important for the works to be carried out under the project, because it ensured that the
benefits of rehabilitation and upgrading of the medium and small scale schemes would be
sustained in the future. In 1989 five trial areas or Advanced Operations Units (AOUs) in
each province were also established under the project, with the overall objective of trying
out and refining O&M procedures prior to their implementation throughout the province.



- 4 -
4.3         The project design  and  organization  intended  to  support GOI's
decentralization effort and to facilitate project implementation. This was largely achieved.
In both provinces the project was implemented by the respective Provincial Irrigation
Services (PRIS).1/ At the central level the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD) as represented by Directorate of Irrigation I (DOI-I) was the
executing agency.  It was to provide project coordination, technical guidance and
administrative support to the Project.
4.4         The time-slice approach was used to identify schemes suitable for inclusion
under the project, based on an extensive priority evaluation carried out during project
preparation which gave weights to water availability and use, size of schemes, expansion
of irrigable areas, condition of the system, a minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of
13 percent and equitable distribution within the provinces. The project called also for the
establishment of Project Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) units in both provinces and
implementing M&E programs by September 1987.
Part II:    Dumpil Irrigation
4.5         The Dumpil project, a large scale irrigation expansion project (11,300 ha),
was prepared by DGWRDIDOI-II with assistance from consultants. A feasibility report,
followed by detailed designs and tender documents for the civil works, were completed in
early 1985. The ERR for Dumpil project was estimated at 13 percent. The relatively low
rate of return was due to the high investment cost of $3,000 per ha. A more critical
review at project preparation of the existing engineering design of the Dumpil irrigation
project would have identified considerable technical problems with canal alignments and
design and avoided cost-overruns. It may even have led to an ERR below the opportunity
cost of capital in Indonesia of 10 percent at that time and to the conclusion that it would
not be economically feasible to proceed with the implementation of the scheme.
Substantial detailed design work on the scheme had to be redone during project
implementation and resulted in increased work quantities and costs. These factors delayed
completion of the Dumpil project and reduced the ERR to an estimated 6 percent. At the
time of loan closure additional works comprising canal lining and retaining walls would
be required to make the project fully operational.
Part III:    Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
4.6         Studies and the IPEDA/PBB mapping and reclassification work formed part
of the project. Activities supported under this project, which were not envisaged at
appraisal, were (i) feasibility and design studies for the rehabilitation of twelve dams in
Central and West Java; and (ii) the preparation of the follow-up Java Irrigation
Improvement and Water Resources Management Project (JIWMP).
1/ Now called Provincial Water Resources Service (PWRS)



- 5-
5.    Project Implementation
Part I:      Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development
5.1          General. Project implementation during the first project year was slow,
mainly due to inadequate counterpart funding for FY86/87. However, towards end 1987
project implementation progress accelerated considerably, which was sustained until project
completion end 1992. Part I has more then achieved its main objectives and targets set
at appraisal. On the physical side project achievements substantially exceed the SAR
targets (82 percent for design and 17 percent for construction). Design and construction
of tertiary systems was not foreseen at appraisal. However, under the project tertiary
system design was carried out for about 80,000 ha and construction on close to 45,000 ha,
which completed distribution systems for several medium  irrigation schemes.  The
performance of the provincial and district organizations under the project has been
commendable. The fundamental aims to decentralize irrigation development activities and
strengthen the provincial institutions have largely been achieved. Project implementation
was fully integrated into the provincial organizations, without establishing special project
implementation units. Under the project comprehensive training in planning, design,
construction supervision and operation and maintenance was provided to provincial and
district staff at all levels. Water users' training was addressed mainly through the AOU's.
5.2          Civil Works. The main expenditure item was the construction of medium
and small scale schemes, rehabilitation and upgrading works. Construction quality, which
received inadequate attention in the initial project years, gradually improved over the
years. The implementation of a comprehensive construction supervision training program
improved significantly staff capabilities and staff awareness in this area. Following the
training there was more focus on ensuring that technical specifications were met, which
in many cases led to the use of better construction materials than before.
5.3          The overall achievements for design compared to appraisal targets are given
in Table 4. Design targets have mostly been exceeded. Most designs were carried out by
third party local consultants and supervised by provincial staff with assistance from the
project consultants. Extensive use was made of standard design criteria and guidelines
developed under the project for all categories of work. The criteria and guidelines were
based on the 1986 DGWRD Irrigation Design Standards. The main areas which frequently
presented difficulties were hydrology, mapping and aerial photography, the preference for
lining as a solution for most canal problems and inadequate provision for dealing with
cross drainage. Despite these constraints progress achieved in the design area well exceeds
targets set at appraisal.
5.4          The overall construction achievements under the different categories of work
are also given in Table 4. The original appraisal targets were revised during the 1989
mid-term review. In general the final achievements in both provinces exceed the original
targets. The construction program was modified each year in line with budget availability,
development priorities, design availability and the need to spread the work as equitably as
possible over each province. There was considerable variation in the quality of the
completed works. However, there has been a steady improvement in quality over the
lifetime of the project. For example the quality of gate manufacture and installation



- 6 -
improved substantially, although continued attention is required with respect to compliance
with dimensions and specifications.
5.5         Procurement of civil works was carried out mainly through Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures were used for the Babang scheme in Central Java and Cikuntan scheme in West
Java. For LCB standard documents, based on DGWRD and Bank guidelines were used.
Most LCB contracts were completed satisfactorily, sometimes with cost over-runs and
substantial delays. Quantity variations were mostly due to incomplete design, while delays
were caused by problems related to late availability of funds, land acquisition, submission
of contract documents, construction periods coinciding with the rainy season, lack of
geological and soil investigations, variations in quantities and incompetent contractors.
Some contracts were terminated and completed by new contractors. The ICB documents
were prepared by the project consultants, based on existing ICB documentation. All ICB
contracts were awarded to Indonesian contractors. The ICB package for Bapang II was
terminated with 40 percent completed, due to poor performance of the contractor. The
remaining work was retendered under LCB procedures and completed satisfactorily.
5.6         Under the project 207 and 300 Juru houses were constructed in Central and
West Java respectively, compared to 300 planned at appraisal for each province. In
addition provincial, district and sections offices were improved under the project as
scheduled.
5.7         Institutional Strengthening. The institutional strengthening activities under
the project focused on further developing through training the considerable staff skills
existing in both Provincial Irrigation Services. In addition organizational arrangements at
provincial and regional levels and awareness of beneficiaries (Water Users Associations)
were improved. Following the 1989 mid-term review steps were also taken to improve
design group performance, data and document processing, storage of records and
communication facilities.
5.8         The time-slice approach proved successful. It gradually improved during
project implementation as and when more detailed data was made available. Designs
which existed at the start of the project were often found to be incomplete. This led in
1988 to the establishment of comprehensive databases, which listed available data including
project name, irrigated areas, lengths of canals and number and type of structures.
5.9         Project Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) was established under the project.
PME units have prepared seasonal reports since 1987. The PME activities under the
project have covered the medium and small scale rehabilitation and upgrading activities
under the project. The economic evaluation carried out at project completion used the
PME data.
5.10        The Advanced Operations Units (AOU) program in both provinces were
chosen with the objective to introduce and demonstrate efficient operation and
maintenance. On average each AOU covered about 5,000 ha with 50 km of main and
secondary canals and 85 tertiary units. Systems in the AOU area of 50,000 ha were
upgraded and used as pilot training areas for field staff. Since 1989 the progress of the



- 7 -
AOUs has been evaluated annually, based on which Reference Operating Models (ROMs)
were set up for introduction elsewhere. All AOU objectives have been achieved to a
substantial degree. A scaled down AOU program continues under ISSP-II (Ln 3392-IND).
5.11        Throughout the course of project implementation  both  provincial
organizations evolved to keep pace with project needs. However, the structure of the PRIS
remained virtually unchanged throughout the six year project implementation period,
except for minor adjustments at the regional level. They related to the irrigation districts
or Wilayahs which were headed by a Pembantu Kepala Dinas (PKD). These PKDs were
dissolved in 1991 and are now referred to as Wilayahs in West Java and Coordinating
Cabang Dinas (KCDs) in Central Java.2/ The project derived considerable support from
staff at Provincial and KCD/Wilayah levels in the day to day implementation of project
activities. Staffing levels of different categories remained more or less constant over the
lifetime of the project. The number of technical staff generally exceeded those considered
necessary at appraisal.
5.12        Training was conducted through courses and seminars, transfer of
knowledge, workshops, field visits and on-the-job training. One of the most important
considerations was to make training fit into the normal working arrangements of staff at
each level, rather than a formal activity over a long period away from the job. Techniques
were developed for the evaluation of the benefits gained by trainees. This evaluation
covered all categories of work and in particular design, construction supervision and
O&M. Transfer of knowledge was primarily undertaken by the project consultants to
provincial staff and through them to trainees, local consultants and contractors. This
proved an effective process, which took place through the implementation of project work,
site visits and discussions. Design groups/units were started in each of the KCD/Wilayah
to improve the in-house capability. Currently these design groups/units continue in both
provinces undertaking similar design work. There is a need to build on the design
group/unit concept to improve and sustain the ability to conceive, specify and supervise
future work on irrigation planning, design and construction. These groups now serve as
ideal training grounds for new staff and also staff who change to other responsibilities in
the irrigation development process.
5.13        Other institutional strengthening work carried out successfully related to data
and documentation processing and storage, computer and communications facilities,
procurement of vehicles and purchase of equipment as envisaged at appraisal. The
purchase and supply of vehicles, of which the first batch was to be provided to the project
by end September 1986, was much delayed. The ICB procurement process started in early
1988 and was handled at the central level and was outside the control of the PRIS. GOI
requested Loan financing for this purchase, to which the Bank agreed through the October
1988 amendment to the Loan Agreement. Bids received were evaluated and awards were
made for a reduced number of vehicles following reviews by MOF and BAPPENAS. The
Bank stressed the importance of providing adequate transport to project staff and requested
that action be taken. Following reviews by MOF/BAPPENAS and DGWRD it was
2/ In Central Java the Head of a coordinating Cabang Dinas, in addition to his duties, is also the head
of a Cabang Dinas in the region.



- 8 -
decided to launch a new ICB tender process, which combined the vehicle requirement of
three on-going Bank assisted projects. By early 1991 both projects were finally provided
with and adequate number of vehicles and motorcycles, largely in accordance with the
requirements estimated at appraisal.
Part II:     Dumpil Irrigation
5.14         Designs. The feasibility study (in 1984) and detailed designs (in 1985) for
the project were prepared by a joint venture of foreign/local consultants prior to project
appraisal. As is common practice the construction drawings were to be developed during
project implementation. Unfortunately, after the construction of the first works had started
it was discovered that the "detailed" designs were more of feasibility level design. As a
result significant additional resources were required to bring the designs up to the required
standards and to prepare construction drawings. During the initial implementation phase
the presence of unstable soils in the project area was found, which should have been
detected during field investigations carried out for the project's pre-investment studies.
It is clear now that the detailed designs completed in 1985 should have been reviewed
more carefully during project preparation and appraisal.
5.15         Civil Works. The Dumpil barrage or diversion weir was completed in
1989. Construction was financed by an EEC grant and carried out by a French contractor
(Dumez) in association with Hutama Karya of Indonesia. The structure was formally
inaugurated in May 1991. Unfortunately, several essential items were not provided for
under the initial contract.  These included:  (i) electrification of gates, (ii) water
measurement devices; (iii) installation of a stand-by generator for the electrical operating
system; and (iv) automation system for the barrage gates. It was agreed in 1990 to include
and finance those necessary items, which were not in the original design and not envisaged
at appraisal, under the contract for the installation of a Flood Forecasting and Water
Management System for the Kedung Ombo project (Ln 2543-IND). This contract was
awarded in August 1992 and the Dumpil gate automation was given first priority under the
contract. The work was successfully completed by December 1993.
5.16         The Project was to finance the Dumpil right and left bank main and
secondary canal and inspection road systems to provide irrigation to about 11,300 ha for
which detailed designs were completed in early 1985. As it turned out the system layout
and detailed designs required significant revisions due to; (i) new developments (like
roads, drains etc.) in the project area; (ii) new geological information at the sites of major
structures; (iii) unstable soils in several sections on the right and left bank; and (iv)
additional hydrological information for drainage design.  These changes resulted in
significant design modifications and additional structures, which substantially increased the
cost for the Dumpil project.  The above factors triggered contract amendments for
additional works and extension of contract completion dates. An additional $5.6 million
was allocated from the Loan in April 1991 towards the estimated cost increase. However,
a year later this allocation proved insufficient and the Borrower requested another $5.0
million to complete (i) additional structures in unstable canal sections; (ii) additional
drainage culverts and drain improvements; (iii) tertiary canals in 4,700 ha and (iv) main
canal inspection roads. At that time uncommitted Loan funds were no longer available and
GOI was advised to meet the additional cost of $7.5 million equivalent from FY92/93 and



- 9 -
FY93/94 APBN budgets. As a result the Borrower agreed with the Bank to complete the
project in two stages: (i) stage I, consisting of construction of the system to serve 6,600
ha which was completed by end 1992; and (ii) stage II, consisting of all remaining works
which were to be completed by end 1993. However, the Borrower allocated inadequate
funds under FY93/94 and tertiary systems for 4,700 ha and drainage works are to be
completed during FY94/95 and 95/96. In addition the sustainability of the project is in
danger because the main and secondary canal systems have suffered serious damage due
to unstable soil conditions throughout the project area. Bank support for remedial works
has been provided under JIWMP (Ln. 3726-IND).
5.17        Institutional Strengthening. The Dumpil project was implemented under
the responsibility of the Jratunseluna River Basin project office, with general coordination
and guidance from the Directorate of Irrigation II in DGWRD. The Jratunseluna staff was
responsible for construction planning and quality, for which it obtained assistance from a
joint venture of local and foreign consultants.  The foreign consultant had full
responsibility for design review of the barrage and was to provide assistance to project
staff for construction supervision and quality control. A similar agreement was made with
the local consultant, who was to be responsible for design review of the irrigation system
and provide supervision assistance to project staff. This arrangement, which did not
function well, meant that project staff was primarily responsible for construction
supervision. Based on variable construction quality the Bank, during the mid-term review
in July 1989, recommended assigning full responsibility for construction supervision to the
consultants. In mid-1990 it was agreed in view of the irrigation system design problems,
to retain the foreign consultant to work with project staff and local consultants on resolving
the design and construction problems and improve construction quality. The Borrower
reluctantly agreed and an experienced construction engineer was assigned to improve
construction standards of the project and to supervise the construction of special measures
for canal stability in the problem areas. This assignment contributed somewhat to
improvements in construction quality. No consultants were employed after August 1992,
except for design and installation of automation of the Dumpil barrage gates.
Part III:    Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
5.18        Studies. The Bongo Irrigation Project feasibility study was carried out
by consultants. This study started mid-1987 and was completed by mid-1988. The
proposed project (12,000 ha) proved technically and economically (ERR 18 percent)
feasible. Hence, the consultants were authorized to proceed with preparation of detailed
designs, which was completed by mid-1989. CIDA appraised the project end 1988 on the
basis of which it agreed with GOI/DGWRD to support the implementation of part of the
project (4,500 ha). However, after the North Sulawesi Provincial Government decided to
grant permission to large scale sugar cultivation in the area, GOI/DGWRD decided not to
implement the proposed irrigation works.
5.19        The Dolok-Panggaron and Tuntang-Jragung studies, which consisted of
the preparation of; (i) detailed design for about 6,500 ha at Dolok-Panggaron in Central
Java; (ii) an updated masterplan and feasibility study to integrate the water resources of
the Tuntang and Jragung rivers to service about 40,000 ha; and (iii) detailed design of the
Glapan Barrage on the Tuntang river following, were financed under the EEC grant. The



- 10 -
selection of consultants under EEC procedures proved time consuming. Contracts were
awarded in early 1990 and the work was completed by mid-1991. At the end of 1992
DGWRD requested the EEC to provide support for the implementation of the Dolok-
Panggaron and the Glapan barrage. The EEC has not yet responded to this request.
5.20        At the request of GOI/DGWRD the Bank agreed in 1989 to support under
the project a consultancy to review safety and stability of five existing dams in Central
Java and one in West Java. Consultants appointed in 1989 completed the studies in May
1991. At about the same time it was decided to extend the review to another six dams in
Central Java. This work, including design of needed rehabilitation works, was completed
by end 1992. The studies identified the need for emergency repairs at the Cacaban and
Tempuran dams in Central Java, which were carried out and financed under the project.
Rehabilitation works valued at about $15 million were identified as needed on the balance
ten dams. These works are scheduled to be implemented under the Dam Safety project
(Ln. 3742-IND), which was signed in July 1994.
5.21        At the time of the mid-term review (mid-1989) discussions started on the
need to prepare a follow-up irrigation rehabilitation project for West, Central and East
Java. In mid-1991 the Bank agreed with the Borrower to finance under the project the
preparation of a future Java irrigation improvement project, with added emphasis on
activities initiated under ISSP such as river basin water management, expansion of the ISF
program, and turnover of small schemes to the beneficiaries. Consultants were appointed
in early 1992 to prepare the Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Management Project
(JIWMP). The project preparation report was submitted in early 1993.
5.22        IPEDA Surveys and Mapping. The IPEDA/PBB activities, which called
for mapping and reclassification of about 670,000 ha in eight large irrigation schemes in
both provinces, started late. The work was divided in six contracts and the first bid-
documents were cleared by the Bank mid-1987 and awarded in early 1988. The work was
to be completed by end 1989. Two local consulting firms were contracted to supervise
three contracts each. They were to ensure the accuracy of the field and office work
undertaken by the contractors. They were also to provide practical training to about sixty
PBB staff. By mid-1990 four of the six contractors had completed their work. The
property tax bills for 1990 for these four areas were prepared on the basis of the new data.
The remaining two contracts for the Pemali and Ceribon areas were completed by mid-
1991. Estimates prepared by the PBB directorate showed that the reclassification carried
out under the first contracts of the project had resulted for tax year 1990 in a tax collection
increase of about 65 percent. The equipment planned under the project for the regional
PBB offices was all procured, installed and tested albeit with delay.
6.    Project Results
Part I:     Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
6.1         General. The results of the Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
subproject are highly satisfactory. They generally have exceeded the projections made at
appraisal. In addition designs were prepared for about 62,000 ha of rehabilitation works



- 11 -
and about 104,000 ha of turnover works for possible implementation under the Java
Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management project (JIWMP). Under the
project design units staffed by young qualified engineers were established in the Provincial
Services. These units received project support in terms of equipment, facilities and
training from the project consultants, and as a result these units were able to carry out a
substantial amount of new designs and to supervise design work carried out by local
consultants. They are a valuable assets for both Provincial Services and are expected to
continue and expand the design activities under JIWMP.
6.2         Cost. The total cost for the Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
subproject was estimated at Rp.244.69 billion ($222.45 million at Rp. 1,100 to one dollar)
at appraisal. The cost at completion was Rp.324.76 billion ($173.69 at actual exchange
rate varying from Rp. 1640 in September 1986 to Rp.2050 in June 1993). On September
12, 1986 the Rupiah was devalued to Rp. 1640 to one dollar. The Bank agreed not to
reduce the Loan amount, as the project was designed to finance a five year slice out of the
overall twenty year provincial irrigation development program in the two provinces. This
made it possible to increase the implementation targets under the project. This was done
at the time of the mid-term review in July 1989. In dollar terms total expenditures were
28 percent lower than the estimated costs at appraisal. The biggest expenditure increase
was for the Consultancy for Coordination and Training; about 43 percent.  Land
acquisition cost was substantially less (more than 50 percent) than estimated.
6.3         Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(PME) unit was established end 1986 and the PME action plan was prepared in March
1987. A revised action plan was prepared in May 1988 following comments from various
sources. PME covered the four separate subprojects of medium scale, small scale,
rehabilitation and upgrading. Seasonal and annual reports were prepared by the PME units
from 1987 to 1992. Primary indicators used for evaluation were cropping intensity, crop
yield and net farm income. The PME results show that post-project paddy yields are
generally lower than originally estimated at appraisal and considerably lower than those
reported by the regional offices (Ranting Dinas) and local government district offices
(Kabupaten). Paddy yields are showing an upward trend in selected areas, with some
exceptions. Cropping intensities are generally higher than appraisal targets in most areas
where PME surveys were carried out. There are still shortcomings to be improved for
PME activities under the project. More coordination is required with other agencies, such
as PRAS and Bappeda.
6.4         Advanced Operations Unit (AOU) Program. The AOU program under
the project has largely achieved its objectives. Agricultural production in the 30,000 ha
program areas has increased due to substantial investment in main and tertiary system
upgrading, improved water management and improved staff capability. The AOU program
has been expanded in the provinces through the efficient O&M program under ISSP-II.
Most of the improvements are expected to involve simplification and modifications of the
procedures, preparation of guidelines and on-the-job training rather than the capital
investment (upgrading) applied under this project.
6.5         Rate of Return. The rates of return (ERR) at appraisal and re-estimated
at completion are summarized in Table 6. The results show that project benefits have



- 12 -
surpassed the estimates made at appraisal. On average considerably less investment per
hectare was made in the project as a whole and medium scale subprojects, and
considerably more on upgrading than was originally planned. The project's PME results
were used in the analysis. The results show that the ERR of all components together is
estimated at 41 percent for Central Java and 28 percent 2/ for West Java compared with
25 percent and 28 percent at appraisal.4/ The highest returns were realized for the
upgrading subprojects (45 percent and 79 percent), the lowest for medium scale
subprojects (14 percent and 16 percent). It must be noted that at the time the ERRs were
re-estimated the construction had only just been completed and benefits resulting from the
improvements were starting to develop. Even if the incremental production is halved the
overall ERR for Central Java would be 22 percent and 17 percent for West Java. Only
the medium scale subproject in both projects will fail to reach an ERR over 15 percent.
Part II:    Dumpil Irrigation
6.6         General. Implementation of the Dumpil project has been problematic and
has suffered a substantial cost overrun.  DOI-II, through the Jratunseluna project
management unit, was unable to complete the scheme as scheduled. An extension of the
Loan Closing date with six months to June 30, 1993 was required to complete stage I to
irrigate 6,600 ha. The Borrower was to fully finance the remaining works, including
additional drainage, inspection roads, canal stability works and tertiary systems. While
some of these works have been constructed, 100 percent completion is not expected to be
achieved until FY95/96.
6.7         Cost. The discovery of unstable soils, omissions in designs and necessary
design revisions have resulted in a 20 percent overall cost increase from $48.8 million to
$59.0 million) of the Dumpil project. These figures include the cost of the diversion dam,
which was financed by an EEC grant and completed 37 percent or $5.5 million below the
cost estimated at appraisal ($14.7 million including contingencies). If the EEC supported
portion is excluded than the cost of the remaining Dumpil project works increased from
$34.1 million (SAR estimate) to $50.9 million or by about 50 percent.
6.8         Rate of Return. The rate of return (ERR) was re-estimated in June 1987
taking into account the expected delay in implementation and the reduced benefits due to
lower agricultural prices. At that time there was not yet any indication that the SAR cost
estimate would go up considerably. The revised ERR was 10.6 percent compared to the
SAR estimate of 13 percent, and it was concluded that the Dumpil subproject continued
to be economically viable. However, it is estimated that the 20 percent cost increase,
delayed project implementation and the less than expected availability of dry season
irrigation water have reduced the ERR below 6 percent.
3/ Without upgrading subproject projections.
4/ With upgrading subproject results.



- 13 -
Part III:    Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
6.9         The studies and IPEDA/PBB activities included under the project were
completed as scheduled.  The IPEDA/PBB  reclassification work has resulted in
substantially improved tax collection. The studies carried out of the Bongo Irrigation
project have not led to the construction of this 10,000 ha scheme in North Sulawesi,
because the Provincial Government had different plans for the area. The results of the
Central and West Java dam rehabilitation studies, initiated under the project in 1990, are
included in the Dam Safety Project (Ln. 3742-IND), for which a Bank Loan was signed
in July 1994. Another unforeseen activity under the project-the preparation of the
JIWMP-was financed with proceeds of Loan 2649-IND. The proposed project was
appraised in November 1993 and approved in June 1994.
7.    Project Sustainability.
Part I:     Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
7.1          The Project has improved substantially the capacity and efficiency of the
Central and West Java Provinces to design and construct small and medium scale irrigation
projects. The implementation of JIWMP will ensure that the design and construction
supervision capacities introduced in both provinces will be sustained during the
implementation period of this project and beyond. Sustainability of these skills will depend
on further training and attention to the provision of routine budgets for hydrology,
planning, design groups and institutional training.
7.2         Following the implementation of rehabilitation works and expansion of
medium and small schemes agricultural production and cropping intensities have already
gone up. The sustainability of these agricultural production benefits much depends on the
on-going efforts to maintain efficient operation and maintenance. With the ongoing
strengthening and expansion of the technical, financial and institutional aspects of efficient
O&M under the ongoing ISSP-II project and under JIWMP as well as GOI's general
support for O&M, it is expected that project benefits will be fully sustainable throughout
the project's economic life.
Part II:    Dumpil Irrigation
7.3         For the Dumpil Irrigation development project to become sustainable,
several technical issues need to be addressed and resolved.  They range from (i)
completion of tertiary systems; (ii) operating and maintaining unlined canals in unstable
soils; (iii) water availability during the low flow season; and (iv) optimizing utilization of
the investments made.
7.4          Tertiary Works. GOI will need to provide adequate funding to complete
tertiary systems on about 5,000 ha of the Dumpil command area.  Without the
implementation of these tertiary systems it will be difficult to introduce efficient water
management, irrigate fully the entire command area and achieve the projected cropping
intensities. Project water-users are expected to participate more actively in the operation



- 14 -
and maintenance activities of the project works and to organize water users associations,
once tertiary systems are extended over the entire project area.
7.5          Unstable Soils. The original design shortcomings of the irrigation system
may threaten the sustainability of the main and secondary infrastructure works. The canal
system was originally designed on the basis of an unlined canal system. The discovery
of instable soils in significant portions of main and secondary canal alignments after the
construction of works had started required costly design changes. If this soil condition had
been known at the time of project preparation, a large part of the system would have been
designed as a lined system with narrower and deeper canals involving less earthwork and
smaller lined cross-sections. This solution would have costed less than the system built
under the project. Costly rehabilitation works, in particular selected lining of canals
sections, and maintenance works will be required in the years ahead to keep the system
fully operational. Maintenance deficiencies, therefore, may threaten the sustainability of
the project and reduce the economic return of the investments made under the project.
7.6          Storage Development. The Dumpil project was designed for wet season
supplemental irrigation only, mainly because the Lusi river provides little dry season flow.
However, preliminary studies have identified the possibility of storage development (about
70 Mm3) on the Lusi river upstream of the Dumpil diversion weir at Banjarejo at an
estimated cost of $60 million. Half of the cost will be required for land acquisition,
compensation and resettlement. Bank supervision missions advised GOI/DGWRD to carry
out studies to determine whether the construction of a storage facility upstream of the
diversion dam would be technically and economically viable. Such a facility would
optimize the utilization of the Dumpil project and make it more sustainable. Feasibility
studies of the Banjarejo reservoir project have yet to be initiated.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          Preparation and Appraisal. The Central and West Java Irrigation Project
was the second Bank supported project 5/ which was largely implemented by Provincial
Irrigation Services (PRIS). The Bank's assistance in project identification and preparation,
which was based on studies carried out by consultants employed by the Borrower, was
timely and resulted in the formulation of a suitable project implementation plan. Project
formulation took into account the lessons learned from the implementation of the East Java
Irrigation Project (Irrigation XVII; Ln 2119-IND). In particular the Bank made sure that
project implementation was fully integrated into the existing provincial organizations. The
appraisal overall was well received. The time-slice program approach for the irrigation
development activities in Central and West Java under the project proved highly
appropriate and timely. The strengthening of Operation and Maintenance under the project
got a major boost in 1986, when GOI took a series of policy related measures aimed at
introducing Efficient Operation and Maintenance (EOM). This led to World Bank and
ADB support for major lending operations (ISSP-I, IISP, and ISSP-II projects), which
I/ The first such project was Irrigation XVII (East Java Province) Ln 2119-IND, which was completed
in 1989.



- 15 -
focussed on introducing EOM in specific project areas, including those rehabilitated and
expanded under this project (Ln 2649-IND).
8.2         In hind-sight, it is apparent that during project preparation and appraisal
inadequate attention was paid to the surveys and detailed designs prepared for the Dumpil
infrastructure works. The designs and tender documents, which were prepared during the
second half of 1984 with very limited budget, were based on minimum topographical
survey and geological data. Most of the design budget available in 1984 was applied to
the design of the Dumpil diversion dam and Glapan Barrage project. In 1989 additional
topographical survey and geological investigations were carried out, which required major
design revisions and resulted in a large cost overrun. During appraisal it should have been
detected that the Dumpil designs available at that time were not detailed enough to serve
as the basis for the construction of works.
8.3         Supervision. Project implementation was largely supervised by staff of the
Bank's Resident Mission in Indonesia (RSI). RSI staff maintained a regular and generally
well-timed supervision schedule throughout the entire 1986 to 1992 implementation period.
During that period Bank missions visited the project areas nine times and dealt effectively
with supervision matters, including procurement, at RSI. DGWRD officials and project
staff, often accompanied by their consultants frequently consulted Bank staff at RSI on a
wide variety of project matters and issues. These arrangements, including continuity of
Bank staff participation in the supervision activities, established an effective communication
channel with DGWRD officials and project staff and helped in resolving project
implementation problems and decision making. The project's mid-term review (MTR) was
carried out in July/August 1989, on the basis of comprehensive reports prepared by the
Borrower. The MTR reviewed the mid-term achievements and established revised physical
and financial targets for the project. The design and implementation problems under the
Dumpil subproject had not yet been fully identified at the time the MTR took place.
8.4         Loan Management. The Bank showed flexibility by increasing in 1990 the
Special Account revolving fund ceiling from $9 million to $12 million and by reallocating
"savings" resulting from the September 1986 Rupiah devaluation to revise the
implementation targets upwards. The Loan closing date was extended by six month to
June 30, 1993, which helped to achieve completion of the Dumpil Irrigation project works.
8.5         Lessons Learnt. The project largely achieved its objectives in terms of
physical development and institutional strengthening. The most important lessons learnt
under the project are the following:
(a)   at the time of appraisal the "detailed" designs prepared for of the Dumpil
project should have been reviewed more carefully; in particular the
appraisal mission should have ascertained that the designs were based on
accurate technical parameters of the irrigable area; failure to do so resulted
in costly design revisions leading to a much lower ERR than projected at
appraisal;
(b)   sustainability of the PRIS ability to implement, operate and maintain
projects of this type will depend on further training and attention to the



- 16 -
provision of routine budgets for hydrology, planning, design groups,
training and institutional strengthening;
(c)   while PRIS staff is capable to manage large numbers of design and
construction contracts each year, continued attention needs to be paid to
ensure good quality. Adequate staffing and computers must be made
available to implement similar future programs;
(d)   design and construction programs for a particular scheme should not
overlap. Adequate funds (DIP) need to be released on time;
(e)   the establishment of design units in the PRIS have improved provincial
capacity to undertake and supervise design work;
(f)   for the construction of works, in particular major works such as
construction of weirs, maximum use has to be made of the dry season;
where needed major works should be constructed through multi-year
contracts;
(g)   O&M procedures have to made scheme specific;
(h)   PME activities are essential for scheme performance evaluation and for
proposing modifications in future works.
8.6         The project successfully incorporated some of the lessons learnt from the
East Java Provincial Project (Ln 2119-IND). This applied in particular to the redirection
of consultant inputs towards the strengthening of planning, design and construction quality
capabilities. The project demonstrated also the need for GOI/DGWRD to give priority to
projects on Java which aim at improving the efficiency of utilizing water resources in the
face of competing demands from agriculture, municipal and industrial purposes. While
it was originally envisaged that this project would be followed by a further time-slice
operation, the implementation of this project and experiences obtained from the
implementation of other projects confirmed the need for future projects to pay more
attention to integrated water management across sectors within river basins.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         The Borrower's performance in carrying out its obligations under the project
has been good. While DGWRD was the executing agency, project implementation was
decentralized and most of the responsibilities were delegated to the PRIS in Central and
West Java for the provincial irrigation development part of the project and to the
Jratunseluna River Basin Project office in Semarang for the Dumpil project.  The
performance of the provincial irrigation organizations in Central and West Java has been
particularly good.
9.2         The organizational structure of both Provincial Irrigation Services remained
stable throughout project implementation and staffing levels were maintained or exceeded



- 17 -
at the levels foreseen at appraisal. Composite teams of local and foreign Consultants
provided considerable assistance to provincial staff in such areas as project management,
planning, coordination and training. While the project's main focus was on investment
activities in existing small and medium-type irrigation schemes, appropriate attention was
also given to introducing efficient O&M and to monitoring project benefits. The AOU and
PME programs, which were integrated in the day-to-day activities of the PRIS provided
important contributions in those areas and appear to be firmly implanted in the Provincial
activities. The Borrower's decision in 1986 to introduce efficient O&M nationwide was
important for the O&M activities envisaged under this project. It resulted in additional
technical and financial support for O&M related activities in parallel with the irrigation
improvement programs under the project.
9.3         The Jratunseluna project staff had to manage a large number of unforeseen
problems caused by the inaccurate and incomplete preparation of detailed designs for the
Dumpil system. This additional work required the re-allocation of staff and consultants
resources and resulted in many amendments to the contracts for the construction of works.
Project staff at times showed a lack of sound judgment and experience in proposing
additional works under contract amendments. Costly canal lining was often proposed
without considering cheaper alternative solutions, such as dry stone pitching, flumes or
partial lining. Additional consultant input was acquired to help finding the best solutions
for the canal stability and other problems.
9.4          Compliance with covenants has generally been satisfactory. Stipulations
on O&M funding under clause 5.04 of the Loan Agreement were superseded by the
introduction under the ISSP-I project (Ln 2880-IND) of an irrigation service fee (ISF) and
the earmarking of land tax collection under PBB (successor of IPEDA) for O&M. Those
O&M related activities were prominent parts of the Irrigation Subsector Policy Statement
and related monitorable Action Plan under ISSP-I and ISSP-II.
9.5          The budgetary process at the national level continued to be cumbersome,
which often resulted in late availability of funds. This in turn delayed the bidding process
for the construction of works, causing works often to be implemented under unfavorable
weather conditions of the wet season. The Borrower did not perform well with providing
adequate transportation to project staff. Although the Bank amended the Loan agreement
in 1988 to permit Loan financing for the purchase of vehicles, it was only in 1991 that the
Borrower had fully complied with this provision. The Borrower was generally slow in
processing loan withdrawal applications.   At times the Borrower made special
arrangements to clear significant disbursement backlogs.
9.6         Progress reporting, mainly prepared by consultants, was regular, timely and
the quality good. Adequate project accounts were maintained by the Borrower. Annual
audits were carried out as scheduled and generally submitted within one year after each
fiscal year. The audit reports provided to the Bank were satisfactory.
10.   Project Relationship



- 18 -
10.1        Good relationships were maintained between the Bank and Borrower,
especially with DGWRD, BAPPENAS and PBB at the Central Government level and with
the project implementation entities in both provinces. The Bank's contacts were primarily
maintained through its staff at RSI. This was of particular significance in resolving the
Dumpil design problems and in accelerating procurement and disbursement processes.
There were frequent informal and formal contacts between Bank and project staff either
at RSI, in DGWRD or during visits to project sites.
11.   Consulting Services
Part I:     Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development
11.1        Consultants to the Provincial component consisted of a joint venture of two
foreign firms in association with four Indonesian firms. The Training and Coordination
Consultancy (TCC) provided on-the-job training, project planning and coordination,
construction supervision and studies. The services started in October 1986 and the plan
was that the expatriate consultants would terminate at the time of the mid-term review
(MTR) scheduled for September 1989. Thereafter the Indonesian consultants would
provide the required services. However, during the MTR in July 1989, the Borrower
requested to revise the scope and extent of the Consultant services, because of constraints
not anticipated at the start of the assignment such as unavailability of designs in the early
project years; lack of experience of local design consultants and the limited impact of
training and transfer of know how until that time. It was decided to continue the services
of the foreign consultants until the anticipated end of the project in December 1992.
11.2        Apart from providing general project planning and coordination services,
the consultants prepared contract documents for ICB and LCB and standard forms for
reporting during construction.   They implemented a comprehensive construction
supervision training program for Provincial and district staff. All staff training was
completed by February 1992. Consultants prepared also standard design criteria and
guidelines for all categories of design work under the project. The design criteria report
prepared under the project has become a supplement to the DGWRD design standards.
Most designs were carried out by third party local consultants, who were supervised by
PRIS staff and TCC consultants. The TCC consultants prepared also feasibility studies for
the Randununting and Cibuni-Cikaso projects.
11.3        Throughout the assignment, which had considerable impact, the TCC
consultants performed satisfactorily. The cost of consultant services increased by about
40 percent from $9.9 to $14.0 million. This large cost increase is largely due to retaining
foreign consultants for another twenty four months beyond the original termination date
of September 1989.
11.4        A special consultancy, not foreseen at the time appraisal, was required to
inspect and investigate a total of twelve existing dams in Central and West Java to
determine the need for rehabilitation.  Consultants were appointed and started the
assignment late 1989. The cost of this consultancy ($1.5 million) was financed under Part
A.5 of the project: surveys and detailed designs. This work was completed satisfactorily



- 19 -
end 1992. The rehabilitation works identified are expected to be implemented under the
recently approved Dam Safety Project (Ln. 3742-IND).
Part II:    Dumpil Irrigation
11.5        The Borrower appointed in 1986 consultants to supervise the construction
of the Dumpil barrage and earlier irrigation and drainage works. The foreign/local joint
venture was appointed directly, because of its involvement in the preparation and design
stage of the project. Consultants started the assignment late, because of protracted contract
negotiations. In early 1990 it became evident that additional consultants input was
required to deal with the design revisions and problems encountered during construction
of works. The Borrower proposed local consultants only, but the Bank insisted that
additional foreign input would be contracted to advise on the difficult technical problems
related to unstable soils and construction quality. A foreign consultant was contracted.
His input was significant and resulted in improved construction quality. His assignment
ended mid-1992. From that date until August 1992 construction supervision was the
responsibility of local consultants and project staff. Thereafter project staff was solely
responsible for construction supervision, except for some foreign input for the supervision
of automation of the Dumpil barrage gates. The quality of the consultants services has
been unsatisfactory. The assignment was of a complex nature, because of the need for
significant design revisions and the discovery of unstable clays in the canal alignments.
In hindsight the decision made in 1988 to assign design review and construction quality
control responsibilities to the consultants rather than project staff proved correct. The cost
of consulting services increased by 31 percent from $2.2 to $2.9 million. The increase
was caused by additional inputs required for design revisions and construction quality
control.
Part III:    Studies and IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
11.6        Studies.   Consultants contracted to undertake the various studies
programmed in the SAR performed satisfactorily. The Bongo feasibility studies and
preparation of detailed design, were completed as scheduled at a 60 percent lower cost
than projected in the SAR. The Dolok-Panggaron and Tuntang-Jragung studies in the
Jratunseluna basin, which were financed by the EEC, started much later than planned
because of cumbersome selection procedures imposed by the EEC. Contracts were
awarded to Consultants from the Netherlands. The EEC sponsored studies costed $5.2
million or about 35 percent more than projected.
11.7        JIWMP Preparation. A joint venture of foreign and local consultants were
contracted to assist DGWRD with the preparation of the proposed Java Irrigation
Improvement and Water Resources Management Project. The preparation document,
which was of good quality, was submitted as scheduled by April 1993. The cost of the
consultancy was $2.0 million.
11.8        IPEDA Surveys and Mapping. Two local consulting firms were selected
to supervise the six IPEDA mapping and reclassification contracts under the project.
These contracts were awarded in April 1988. All activities were completed satisfactorily



- 20 -
by mid-1990. The cost of the supervisory consultancies was $0.8 million or 30 percent
less than foreseen.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        Documentation. The Loan Agreement and the SAR provided a generally
a adequate framework for the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation. The
stipulations in the legal documents and the SAR were well understood at the working level
by the implementing project agencies, which avoided problems during implementation.
The Borrower generally complied with the provisions of the Loan Agreement (Table 8).
12.2        Project Data. Detailed data were readily available for the preparation of
this PCR. The Borrower had prepared PCRs for the main project components, which
provided most of the inputs for this report. List of reports anrd other documents developed
during the implementation of the project have been properly maintained by the project
offices. These include study reports, design criteria and guidelines, drawings, tender
documents, O&M procedures, progress reports and training materials. In addition, data,
maps and aerial photographs obtained by the project are professionally stored in the project
offices. Provincial computerized data bases and reservoir data have been maintained
separately by the Central and West Java PRIS. In addition, a continuous photographic
record of project activities has been maintained. Two videos each for construction and
O&M and one film for Water Users Associations were also produced during the course
of the project.



- 21 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comment on Part I
Background
Self sufficiency in rice production achieved since 1984 should be maintained.
However some supporting actions should be carried out, among others:
1.1  Improving human resources for O&M of the existing irrigation schemes
and increasing the number of O&M staff by Training for design, water
management etc.
1.2   Tuming over the irrigation schemes from Project to Provincial Irrigation
Service to realize the Desentralization including the O&M irrigation.
1.3  Increase the O&M budget.
a. Introduction of Irrigation Service Fee (ISF)
b. IPEDA Survey and Mapping for supporting land tax collection.
c. Improving the Water User Association capabilities for maintaining
the tertiary canals.
1.4   Developing a new irrigated area due to:
a. Increased food demand caused by population growth rate (2%
annually).
b. Continued land conversion from irrigated rice field into other
purposes.
In Java about 30,000 ha technical irrigation rice field changes in
function yearly. Compared with Dumpil Project which will develop
11,300 ha irrigated rice field within 5 years, the development of
new irrigated area is too slow.
1.5  It is ideal if the O&M  budget of the existing irrigation schemes is
covered by the incremental agriculture yield (project benefit) O&M
irrigation cost recovery is underway in some area through ISF
collection.
A part of O&M budget will have to be paid by ISF, land tax and
WUA's fee.
The existing irrigation schemes in Central and West Java are
deteriorating due to lack of O&M  budget and O&M  staff.  The
improvement of O&M will require more budget, skill and facilities.



- 22 -
Beside the existing new irrigated area it was planned to develop Dumpil
Irrigation area and tertiary system in Central and West Java Irrigation
Project.
The Government of Indonesia then requested World Bank Assistance
using loan 2649-IND to finance the O&M of Central and West Java
Irrigation and the development of Dumpil project.
2.   Project Preparation
2.1   Rehabilitation, upgrading, EOM and its supporting work of Central and
West Java Irrigation project was well prepared. The problem is that
more than 500 schemes of Central and West Java Irrigation are located
mostly in remote areas.
2.2   Dumpil preparation.
1983 - 1984 Dumpil Irrigation System was designed with limited budget.
And it was sufficient only for soil investigation in the barrage rather than
for the canal system.  The topographic survey and geological
investigation were done very limited.
Design review resulted in additional works, topographic survey and
geological investigation.
The 11,300 ha irrigated land of Dumpil area has nine (9) small existing
irrigation schemes managed by DPU, but there was not enough water
provided consistently.
Therefore, these existing irrigation systems were integrated into Dumpil
Irrigation system.
From the Feasibility Study Dumpil Irrigation Project is feasible with a
marginal ERR of 12%.
3.   Project hnplementation.
3.1   The achievement.
The components of studies, civil works and training of Central and West
Java Irrigation are well implemented and achievements exceeded the
SAR targets.
The completion of Dumpil Irrigation Project is delayed due to some
problems raised during project implementation period such as the need
for redesign during construction, lack of funds etc.



- 23 -
3.2   Construction Quality.
In the PCR it is mentioned that the Construction quality, which received
inadequate attention in the initial project years, gradually improvement
over the years.
The overall construction achievements of Central and West Java
Irrigated exceeded the SAR targets. However, physical achievements
are not worth much if the construction quality is not satisfactory and the
irrigation schemes are not functioning properly.
For PCR, the evaluation of construction quality of civil works and the
evaluation of irrigation function by visual field checks is essential.
Secondary data of supervision report are usually different compared with
the actual field conditions.
The irrigation schemes of Central and West Java Irrigation, consists of
more than 500 schemes and are located mostly in remote areas. This
makes it difficult to evaluate the construction quality. Construction
quality of one scheme is not necessarily representative for other
schemes.
The implementation of Dumpil Irrigation Project has been carried out
with some problems: lack of funds, need for redesign and additional
works.
4.    Project result.
4.1   The physical achievement of design and construction of small and
medium rehabilitation and upgrading components under the Central and
West Java Irrigation Project (loan 2659-IND) is satisfactory and has
exceeded the targets of the SAR.
Design and construction activities for rehabilitation and upgrading of
irrigation systems, mostly require simple technology. Therefore, the
physical achievement has exceeded the SAR.
4.2  In contrast, physical achievement of Dumpil Irrigation Project is lower
than projected in the SAR, 6,700 ha against 11,300 ha in the SAR.
Construction quality of Dumpil Barrage is satisfactory, but a part of
canals is less than satisfactory and inoperable. Technical reasons, which
were unforeseen during appraisal and lack of funds resulted in delays in
completion.



- 24 -
4.3   The training component carried out through lectures, seminars, transfer
of knowledge, workshop, field visits and education visits has been
implemented satisfactorily. Hopefully the training will benefit future
O&M of irrigation schemes.
However, up to now there is no criteria for measuring the benefit of
training. Quite often some training participants are not representing
their daily job.
4.4   The success of WUA training is also questioned; up to now only about
20% of the WUAs are active.
4.5   Turn over irrigation schemes to Provincial Irrigation Service is in line
with the Decentralisation Policy. This has been done successfully. But
mostly no improvement has been made in the O&M of irrigation
schemes because:
(1) the readiness of the Provincial Irrigation Service
(2) lack of O&M funding.
4.6  IPEDA survey and Mapping is addressing to sustain land tax collection
(PBB) and a part of land tax will be used for O&M irrigation system.
4.7   Conclusion:
Project loan 2649-IND for Central and West Java Irrigation is sustaining
O&M irrigation schemes, and has extended the Project's life time.
However, the main O&M problem hasn't been solved. Since the O&M
budget is not sufficient, the life time of irrigation schemes will be
shorter than planned.
4.8   O&M.
The PCR does not show the O&M comparative analysis which shows
Central and West Java Irrigation at present condition, future condition
and the ideal condition.
The analysis of O&M budget and staff number is essential for the PCR.
The future O&M irrigation schemes depends on the budget and skill of
O&M staff.
4.9 ERR.
a. Project Monitoring Evaluation (PME) results were used in the
analysis of the ERR without any cross check in the field.



- 25 -
If the total PME area (15%) only represents the best group of
Central and West Java Irrigation, the PME result may not be used
to analyse the ERR.
Paddy yield in the wet season (less than 3 ton/ha) is generally lower
than SAR (about 4 ton/ha) except for upgraded projects (no
complete data).
Cropping intensity for paddy (about 230%) is generally above SAR
projections (180%). It should be noted that the farmers of Central
and West Java are used to plant palawija because its price is better
than paddy. At full development, by increasing the crop intensity
of paddy, the crop intensity of palawija will be lower and so is the
net benefit.
b. Upgrading of irrigation schemes resulted in the highest returns
ranging from 45% to 79% but the second slice upgrading will
reduce ERR to 35 %.
c. Rehabilitation  of irrigation  schemes  generally  have  small
incremental benefit, because the purpose of rehabilitation is
lengthening the project's life time. So the ERR of 30% should be
analysed in more detail.
d. ERR of Dumpil Irrigation Project is only 6% compared with 13%
estimated at SAR.  The low ERR is caused by the physical
achievement which is only 6,700 ha against 11,300 ha projected in
the SAR.
5.   Project sustainability.
5.1   Small and medium irrigation.
The development of small and medium irrigation schemes are done by
farmers with mutual help, simple technology and low cost investment.
Usually, weirs and the other structures are damaged yearly and rebuilt
by farmers.
Permanent irrigation structures done by project will sustain the farmers
to concentrate on agriculture activities. The farmers will be responsible
for the O&M of the irrigation schemes.
5.2   Upgrading and rehabilitation.



- 26 -
Cost recovery for irrigation O&M from ISF and land tax is on going in
pilot projects but the present irrigation condition needs urgent
rehabilitation.
Upgrading and rehabilitation project sustains the project life time. The
future O&M cost will be covered by the Government and continued
under Java Irrigation Improvement Project.
5.3   Training.
Training for design, O&M etc. will be useful for the project staff and
farmers to maintain the sustainability of the irrigation schemes.
6.    Bank Performance.
World Bank assistance for improving the O&M of the existing irrigation
schemes in Central and West Java Irrigation schemes, soon after achieving self
sufficiency in rice production is a step in the right direction. The condition of
existing irrigation schemes has been deteriorating due to lack of O&M funds
and lack of capable O&M staff.
However, it should be considered that the World Bank assistance to O&M of
small and medium schemes might be softening the farmers spirit to maintain the
irrigation schemes. The field check revealed that in some small schemes before
the project, farmers managed the O&M but after the project, the farmers have
no will any more to manage the O&M. O&M belongs to the project.
Therefore the World Bank assistance should be concentrated to the bigger scale
irrigation and high technology such as Dumpil Irrigation Project.
During the preparation, Dumpil Irrigation Project should have been allocated
more funds for soil survey and geological investigation. But due to lack of
such fund, the completion of Dumpil irrigation is delayed.
7.    Borrower Performance.
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has responsibility for the O&M of
irrigation from weirs up to secondary canals, while farmers have responsibility
for the O&M of tertiary canals.
The effort to pay more attention for the O&M of irrigation schemes is a step
in the right direction. Before 1984, the emphasis was on the development of
new construction.
Any problem during project preparation and project implementation has been
overcome through satisfactory coordination among agencies concerned.



- 27 -
8.   Relationship between Bank and GOI.
Generally the relationship between Bank and GOI was good. Difference of
opinion and even conflict is a part of the work. Difference of opinion will
eventually serve as a unifying force to arrive at consensus which is in the
interest of both parties.
B. Comment on Part m
1.   The project Completion Report of loan 2649-IND should be completed with:
1.1   Basic data sheet
1.2  Project location Maps of Central Java Irrigation Project, Dumpil
Irrigation Project and West Java Irrigation Project.
2.   Table 7 should be supported by:
2.1   Table of area achievements each year and agriculture production before
and after project of:
a. Central and West Java at medium, small, rehabilitation and
upgrading irrigation.
b. Dumpil Irrigation Project
2.2   Table of O&M budget each year of Central Java Irrigation West Java
Irrigation and Dumpil Irrigation.
2.3   Table of agriculture input
2.4   Table of ERR calculation of each irrigation including sensitivity analysis.
2.5   Table of prices including of farm gate price.
3.   Table 2 will be more understandable by using diagram.



- 28 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan No.         Title             Purpose la          Approval      Status            Comments
1578-IND    Irrigation X     TA for Institutional        1978      Completed
Strengthening and cost
recovery study
1645-lND    Irrigation XII    Institutional training     1978      Completed
study for DGWRD
0995-IND    Irrigation XV     Institutional               1980      Completed   Mentioned in SAR with
strengthening for                                 respect to strengthening of
DGWRD                                             planning, programming,
and budgeting
996-IND     Agricultural     Strengthen O&M of            1980     Completed   Before negotiations, it was
Extension        Agricultural Services                             agreed that the agricultural
components would be
covered under Ln. 996-
IND.
2118-IND    Irrigation XVI    TA for institutional        1982     Completed   Training of water user
strengthening of                                  associations and key
DGWRD and design of                               farmers.
MIS for irrigation sector.
2119-IND    Irrigation XVII   First Provincial Irrigation  1982    Completed   Mentioned in SAR as
project in East Java                              supporting MIS system and
improvements in M&E and
improved O&M.
2341-IND    Agricultural     Improved planning for        1984     Completed   General support of
Training         agricultural manpower                              Provincial Agricultural
development and                                    services.
utilization.
2375-IND    2nd Provincial   Institutional                1984      Completed   Substantial support for taff
Irrigation       strengthening and                                  training and provision of
implementation of small                           facilities of Provincial
schemes.                                          Irrigation Services off-Java.
2748-IND    Agricultural     Strengthening extension      1987      On-going    Continuation of Agricultural
Extension Im    services                                            Extension 1 (Ln. 996-IND).
2880-IND    Irrigation        Efficient O&M;              1987      Completed   Substantial support of TA
Subsector I      completion of                                      for Studies, efficient O&M
small/medium schemes,                             and completion of
technical assistance/                             provincial schenes (special
training                                           O&M).
3302-IND    Provincial       Full development of on-      1991     On-going    Improvement of
Irrigated       going irrigation schemes                            Coordination between
Agriculture      off-Java.                                         Irrigation and Agriculture.
Development
3392-IND    Irrigation       O&M improvement and          1991     On-going     Financing O&M of
Subsector 11     expanding ISF.                                     irrigation projects.
/a Only purposes related to Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development Project are listed.



- 29 -
Table 2: PRoJEcr TIMErABLE
Date                    Date
Item                       Planned                  Actual
Identification                    NA                      10/84
Preparation/Preappraisal          NA                     04/22/85
Appraisal Mission               06/19/85                04/22/85
Loan Negotiations               11/18/85                 10/28/85
Board Approval                  01/14/86                01/23/86
Loan Signature                  03/01/86                03/07/86
Loan Effectiveness              08/05/86                09/04/86
Loan Completion                 06/30/92                06/30/93
Loan Closing                    12/31/92                 06/30/93
Comments:
Project identification resulted from the performance under the East Java Irrigation project (Ln.
2119-IND) and from Repelita V objectives to (i) strengthen provincial irrigation services and
(ii) expand medium and small scale irrigation. In the initial project preparation stage it was
agreed with the Borrower that the project would cover Central Java only. A project for
upgrading medium and small irrigation systems and improving the operation and maintenance
capacity of the Central Java Provincial Irrigation Service was prepared by DGWRD/DOI-I.
During the preparation mission in October 1984, BAPPENAS convinced DGWRD that a
similar program with the same objectives should be included for West Java. Accordingly the
West Java preparation report was prepared by March 1985. The third major component of the
project was the 10,000 ha Mid-Lusi subproject in Central Java (Dumpil Irrigation), for which
a feasibility study and detailed designs were prepared by DGWRD/DOI-II by January 1985.
Based on the provision of supplementary information requested during preappraisal, it was
decided to consider the April/May 85 preappraisal mission an appraisal. No major problems
were encountered during Loan processing.
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY                  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Appraisal estimate (1985) 8.0    30.0    60.0    95.0   129.0   155.0   166.0
Actual (1993)         4.2    26.0    44.0    81.2   108.6   152.3   164.4/g
Actual as % of estimate 52%   87%     73%      85%     84%      98%     99%
L Date of final disbursement November 18, 1993: the undisbursed balance of $1.6 million
was cancelled on that date.



- 30 -
Table 4: PHYsicAL ACmiEvEmENTS
Design (ha)                        Construction (ha)
Scheme                                    % of SAR                              % of SAR
SAR        Actual        Target       SAR         Actual       Target
Target   Achievement                 Target    Achievement
Province: Central Java
Main Systems
Medium Scale             12,000         8,208          68      15,000         14,955         100
Small Scale              14,000        31,813         227      20,000         26,895         134
Rehabilitation           20,000        63,228         316      25,000         46,418         185
Upgrading                30,000        23,562          79      30,000         32,244         107
Total:                 76,000        126,811         166      90,000       120,512         134
Tertiary Systems            Nil        38,816           0         Nil         25,078
Province: West Java
Main Systems
Medium Scale              5,000        28,387         568       8,600          9,362         112
Small Scalc              11,000        14,492         132      30,700         24,144         79
Rehabilitation           25,000        59,142         236      35,000         35,774         102
Upgrading                20,000        16,893          85      25,000         29,668         118
Total:                 61,000        118,914         193      99,300        98,948          99
Tertiary Systems            Nil        43,995           0         Nil         19,416
Dumpil Irrigation
Main and Secondary         n.a.                                11,300         11,300         100
System
Drainage and Tertiary      n.a.                                11,300          6,700         60
System



Project Activity            Contract No.                       Scope of Work                  Contract Value
SAR       PCR
($M)        | 
1. Irrigation Development in  HK.02.03.01.DA/922       Training, coordination construction supervision,  9.9    14.0
Central and West Java                                  studies and preparation of future projects (1986-
1993                                     _
2. Site Investigations of  J.02.07.CA/05               Survey, planning and design of remedial works          1.5
existing dams                                          of existing dams in Central and West Java                        >
U,
(1989-1992)                                                     4
3. Dumpil Irrigation Project  Ol.KNT.SUP.PIPWSPU       Construction supervision of Dumpil Irrigation  2.2    2.9
in Central Java           /87/88                       Project (12,000 ha) (1986-1992)
4. Bongo Irrigation Project   O1.KONTRAK.PIT/BVIII     Feasibility study and preparation of detailed  2.7     1.1
in North Sulawesi                                      design for Bongo Irrigation project (12,000 ha)
(1987-1989)
5. Jratunseluna Basin studies  HK.02.03.01.B/109/CES/83    Detailed design for drainage works (6,500 ha);  3.8    4.2/a
master plan and feasibility study to develop
water resources of Tuntang and Jragung rivers
(40,000 ha) (1990-1991)
6. Land tax (IPEDA)                                    Supervision  of  IPEDA   mapping  and         1.2    0.8
reclassification contracts (1988-1990)
7. Java Irrigation         HK.02.03.0l.AI/             Preparation of the JIWMP (1992-1993)           -      2.0
Improvement and Water      CANTEC.06
Resources Management
Project (JIWMP)
Total SM)                                     19.8   27.5
Percent of Project Costs                      6.5%  11.1%
/a Financed by EEC Grant.



- 32 -
Table 6A: PROJECT COSTS
Rp billion     |           US$ minion
Item
SAR         Actual         SAR           Actual
Estimate      Cost        Estimate ia      Cost lb
Provincial Irrigation Development
Land Acquisition                                13.05        10.57          11.86        5.71
Mapping and Site Investigation                   0.86         3.21           0.79         1.68
Detailed Design                                  5.78        14.53           5.25        7.62
Civil Works                                    150.51       261.06         136.83       139.15
Subtotal                                     170.20       289.37         154.73      154.16
Institutional Development
Training and Coord. Consultancy                  8.22        25.51           7.48        14.02
Training                                         0.66         2.89           0.60         1.59
M&E and Water User Assoc.                        0.50                        0.46
Offices & Juru Housing                           3.77         4.33           3.42        2.45
Vehicles & Equipment                             1.96         2.66           1.78        1.47
Subtotal                                      15.11        35.39          13.74       19.53
IPEDA (PBB) Land Tax
Mapping and Reclassification                     5.89         7.34           5.35        3.97
Equipment                                        0.48         0.43           0.43        0.23
Technical Assistance                             0.92         1.48           0.84        0.80
Subtotal                                      7.29         9.25           6.62         5.00
Dumpil Subproject
Land Acquisition                                 4.98        11.66           4.53        7.41
Design (Drainage and Tertiaries)                 0.42         0.29           0.38        0.17
DiveraionBarrage/c                              14.22        16.11          12.93        9.16
Main and Secondary Canals                       16.07        45.75          14.61       24.97
Drainage and Tertiaries                          3.48        13.62           3.16        6.55
Offices and Buildings                            0.22         0.09           0.20        0.06
Lining Canals /d                                 0.00         9.72           0.00        4.77/c
Inspection Rounds /d                             0.00         6.10           0.00        2.99/e
Subtotal                                     3939        10334           35.81       56.08
Consulting Services
Dumpil Construction Supervision                  1.83         5.42           1.67        2.93
Bongo Feasibility Study                          2.23         2.04           2.03        1.10
and Detailed Design
Dolok-Penggaronand Tuntang-lragung /c            3.51        10.13           3.20        5.18
Java Irrigation and Water                        0.00         4.08           0.00        2.00
Management Study
Subtotal                                       7.57        21.67           6.90       11.21
Administrative Cost                              11.02         4.76/f        10.01        2.59/L
Total Base Cost                              250.58       463.78         227.81      248.57
Contingencies
Physical                                        23.70         0.00          21.55        0.00
Price                                           58.22         0.00          52.94        0.00
Total                                        332.50       463.78         302.30      248.57
% Increase or (decrease)                                   39%                       (18%)
/a AtUSS1.00equalsRp 1,100.
7r  At actual exchange rate varying from Rp 1,640 in September 1986 to Rp 2,050 in June 1993.
7T  Financed by EEC grant.
/d Lining of canals not included in the original design and SAR estimate. Only some inspection roads were included in SAR
estimate.
/e Estimated, not yet completed.
7? Includes Rp 1.2 billion ($0.6 million) for Dumpil project.



- 33 -
Table 6B: PRoJECr FINANCING
(USS$'000)
Loan Agreement         Actual
(A)     IBRD
Category (1) Civil Works:
(a) Part A                      113,600           105,498
(b) Part B                        4,000             2,202
(c) Part D.2 and D.3             15,200            21,264
(2) Equipment and Materials:
(a) Part B.2                        150                86
(b) Part C.3                        250               227
(c) Vehicles La                       -             1,218
(3) Consultants' Services and Training:
(a) Part A.5                      6,200             9,024
(b) Part B.1, B.3, E.6 and E.7   10,000            15,039
(c) Part C.3                        900               845
(d) Part D, E.4 and E.5           4,500             4,039
(e) Part E.8 La                       -             1,887
(4) Mapping (part C.1)                3,600            3,035
(5) Unallocated                       7,600
166,000          164,364
Cancelled on 11/18/93                 -             1,636
Total                         166,000           166,000
(B)     EEC
(1) Civil Works                      14,700            9,160
(2) Studies                           3,300            5,180
Total                          18,000            14,340
(C)     GOI                                 118,300            69,866
Total Project Cost            302,300           248,570
La Not included at appraisal.



- 34 -
Table 7: PRoJEcr BENEFITS
Economic Impact at Full Development
Appraisal                  PCR
Economic Rate of Return             Estimate                 Estimate
(%) -
Part I: Provincial Irrigation
Central Java
Medium Scale                          20                       14
Small Scale                           30                       46
Rehabilitation                        27                       30
Upgrading                            n.a.                      79
Overall Central Java                  25                       41
West Java
Medium Scale                          20                       16
Small Scale                           33                       29
Rehabilitation                        28                       29
Upgrading                            n.a.                      45
Overall West Java                     28                       28
Part II: Dumpil Irrigation
Dumpil Irrigation Development project    13                     6



No.             Name of Study               Purpose as Defined at Appraisal                Status                           Impact of Study
00
1      Bongo Feasibility Study (North    To determine technical and economical     Completed mid-1989             Project turned out to be feasible, but
Sulawesi) and Detailed Design                feasibility.                                               iniplementation did not proceed because     3)
Provincial Goverunment objected to sombe of
the proposed project details          g
2         Dolok-PanggaranStudy. /a            Detailed design for 6,500 ha         Completed mid-1991.            Funding required for implementation.
3          Tuntang-Jrageng Studies       Preparation of Master plan, feasibility   Completed mid-1991.            Funding required for implementation.
study and detailed design of Glapan
barrage.                                                                                              Z
4        Dam rehabilitation Studies /b      To review safety and sability of     Completed December 1992.       Major contribution to preparation of Dam     -
_ ______________________________              existing  Dams.                                                          Safety  Project
5      Java Irrigation Improvement and      To prepare a follow-up irrigation      Completed April 1993.      Studies provided key input for the formulation
Water Management Study /b         rehabilitation project for Java and                                               of JIWMP.
formulate a River Basin management
component.                                                                                             V)
6     Monitoring and Evaluation Studies.   Monitor and Evaluate agricultural     Established and continued.   Reports prepared, results use for PCR. Staff
development and physical changes                                    trained n M&E. M&E units continue to         I      w
under the project.                                                 function after Loan closure.           C 
7     Advanced Operations Unit (AOU)      Tryout and refine O&M procedures      Implemented, expanded and       O&M procedures have been modified and
program.                                                      continued after Loan closure.    improved. System has been upgraded.
8     Strengthening of Central and West    Formal on the job training in planning,  Completed December 1992    Training and institutional strengthening was
Java Provincial Irrigation Services.  design, implementation, construction                              effective and has had an important impact on
quality and O&M.                                             the successful completion of the Provincial
Component. Training and Institutional
strengthening under Dunmpil was less
successful.
/a Financed by EEC.
/b Not foreseen at Appraisal.



Loan Agreement                                                                       Deadline for                                                                  ar
Covenant                                 Subject                                  Compliance                               Status /a
3.01(a)        Carry out project with proviso that detailed design of some          N.A                                      2
parts will be carried out only if feasibility studies under the
p .roject so recommend.                                                             _
3.01(b)        Carry out project according to Schedule 5, as amended from           N.A.                                     2
time to time.
3.02          Carry out procurement in accordance with Schedule 4.                N.A.                                      2
3.03          Submit a plan of Action of allocation of IPEDA.             By December 31, 1988                              5                                O
Superseded by implementation of ISF program and
arrangements for land tax collection under PBB
included in the National Policy and Action Plan being
financed under ISSP-H (Ln. 3392-IND).
4.01(a)        Maintain accounts for project expenditures.                          N.A.                                     2
4.01(b)        Furnish audit report within nine months after each fiscal year.   January I each year.                       2 /a
4.01(c)        Accounts to be maintained and retained for all expenditures          N.A.                                     2
on basis of statement of expenditures.
5.01          Assign qualified staff to irrigation districts of Kedu, Surakarta    September 30, 1986.                      2
and Pati in Central lava,
5.02          Operate and maintain diversion structures and irrigation            N.A.                                      3
networks, and provide adequate funds for maintenance.
5.03          Take appropriate measures to control malaria in irrigation          N.A.                                      2
service areas.
5.04          Provide a plan of action for allocation of a portion of IPEDA  December 31, 1989                              5
for O&M of irrigation works.                                                         Covenant superseded by implementation of ISF program
and arrangements for land tax collection under PBB,
included under DAP financed under ISSP-II (Ln. 3392-
IND). This is consistent with original objectives, PBB
in 92/93 contributed over 15% of national O&M
budget.
5.05          Carry out D.G. Taxation's plan of action for land           April 1, 1990                                     5
reclassification of the remaining irrigation areas of Central                        Same as above.
and West Java.
5.06          Furnish a plan for the improvement of the method of         September 30, 1987                                5
collection of IPEDA, and carry out such plan after                                   Same as above.
incorporating the Bank's comments.
/a I = unavailable                                       5 = to be waived/deleted
2 = in compliance                                     6 = no longer relevant
3 = partially in compliance                           7 = to be amended
4 = not in compliance                                 8 = not yet due.



Loan Agreement                                                                         Deadline for
Covenant                                  Subjet                                    Compliance                                  Status
7.01          Contract for consultants under Part B.l.                      Loan Effectiveness.                                 2
Schedule 1,      No withdrawal shall be made for expenditure under Category              N.A                                       2
Para. 3B        I(c): (i) until EEC grant is effective; (ii) contract for
diversion weir awarded; and Ciii) consultant's contract for
Part D(l) and D(2) signed.                                                                                                                    l
Schedule 5,       Establish M&E in Central and West Java and assign qualified  December 31, 1986                                   2
Para. I(a)       staff.                                                                                                                                        I
Schedule 5,      Carry out plan of action.                                     September 30, 1987                                  2
Para. _(c)
Schedule 5,      Carry out civil works in accordance wit a timetable acceptable         N.A.                                       2
Para. 2        to the Bank.
Schedule 5,      Establish a committee to coordinate IPEDA mapping                      N.A.                                       2
Para. 3        activities.
ScheduleS,       Completed IPEDA reclassification component (Part C.2)         September 30, 1990                                  2
Para. 4
Schedule 5,      Acquire first lot of vehicles.                                September 30, 1986                              2 (delayed)
Para. 5        Acquire second lot of vehicles.                               September 30, 1987                              2 (delayed)



- 38 -
Table 10: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
(staffweeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                Planned          Revised            Final         Comments
Through Appraisal           }         -                 -             40.4                 -
}
Appraisal through           }
Board Approval             }       59.6                -               5.7                -
}
Board Approval              }
through Effectiveness    }           -                 -               2.0                -
Supervision                         84.0                -              87.0               -
Total                            143.6                              135.1
B. BANK MISSIONS LR
Stage of                     No. of  Days in      Specialization    Performance  Type of Major
Project Cycle      Month/Year Persons  Field /b    Represented tc  Rating Status /d  Problem /c
1. Project Appraisal:   4/85       7         24       IE;A;E
I. Appraisal to Board    7/83     3         20       IE;E;S
III.Board Appraisal to                                                                 Condition of
Effectiveness       N/Rif                                                          Effectiveness
(Signing of
Consultants' contact
for Training and
Coordination delayed
effectiveness)
[V. Supervision         1/87       2          7       IE;A                  1/2          F
8/87      2           7       IE;A                 1/2         None
7/88      2          16       IE;A                 1/1         None
2/89      2          11       IE;A                 1/1          M,T
8/89/g    4          16       IE;TE;A              1/1          F,O
6/90      2          17       IE;A                 1/1         None
5/91      2           8       IE;A                 1/1      T, (Dumpil)
5/92      2          16       21E                  2/2     F,T, (Dumpil)
11/92      3          11       21E,A                2/2     T,F, (Dumpil)
6/93       1          -       IE                   1/2     T,F, (Dumpil)
V. PCR                  2/94       1         14       IE
/a Until FY93, project supervised from the RSI field office on a continuous basis.
lb Number of days from start to finish of mission in field.
/c Key to Specialization: IE = Irrigation Engineer; A = Agriculturalist; E = Economist; TE = Training Expert; S =
Surveyor.
/d Key to Status: Development Impact/Overall Status.
/e Key to Problems: M = Management; T = Technical; F = Financial; 0   Other (Project coordination and general
project problems).
/f N/R = no records.
tg Mid-term Review.



8BRD 1911T6
P~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~6 160                                                                                          orr                                    orf IO                                             H,IUPPINES 
LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                                                                       ^AS    ,
JA  VA                  SEA                                                                         A.60A6 A
60.* 6&                            O.K.I.                                                                      WILAYAHIN          U                                            -, i. .              INDONESIA                        I
6-                  '                           ~~~~~~~~JAKARTA  ,6                                                                                                                                    w             
,      '       s                                                       Wl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~LAYAH INDRAMAYU                .ASU
WILAYAH bANTEN                                    T                                                                                                        h
Rehob,li,o6oo 4.900ha. ,  ,.  7  ,  v  -_  ,  ,  Smoll Scob.  330ho.                                                                                   0 h.0
So,oIl Scale 8,860 56.   I                  '-                                                           $66600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Scol.. 330 Io             1
Smoll S-oe 6,660 h,                                                                                                                              WILAYAH CIRE3ON
b-t./Reh ioo 2,680 ho.
-            )0,                                                                            6 .   i   .   01 Smoll Scol   10.280 tl.                                                       WILATAH PATI
Rfhb.1ti-66c  5,050 h..
7 * ,- , ! ,           -                       /  / E / WILAYAH PEKALONGAN                                                               S-11 _    ehblI S-,05 0 h5 .
/Rhoblitmtio- 5,200 ha.
Ce.a.  Saal 5cl.: 5.270 ho.WOAYAH SEMARANG
t J A  WA     Ir                            -.                                                                                              W 9 J Smoll Rob: 5.270 ho. R hoFditotir  2 770 h.  P."
c '                                                                                                                r-<  <  =S </ Smoll Scol;: 1,4i0 h.al. I 4D          RANDUGUNT/Np
'-< (lINS00) T 
r                                ~~Q~Q,*G                                                                                                                        ISlaM    .   BAARAT
r~~~~~~~~A   wlYAH BOG~OR                                                                                                                                                   JA  w   a-;7S^GPN0\;i|EGO5=/7N  U  
RehobititaNoe  14,370 t,h.                                                                                                        -     \ 0JA                                q                                                             - -- r-
CIKASO C/BU5(StTlrME'                                                                                                             -          O                                     000A
3/MASG C/DUO I                                                                                        I 250 B=  _                                                      PAN 4   =  <    _  -   5lTurler<#F-o   woL;q    .  ,  4>  MrrwOur <AI' G    ~ _. ~ '2  *  JA WA
-. /' a a         G7Ul9GUSwO MAR2AN     \'     \,          A>E9-ws>es<zeS_S= j          =      _   U=ee10rn7 G        ! 150'             ' -                        TIMUR
0.66000  C ,,aa  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              "     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~           W~~IALAYM4- SUIJPKA
INDONESIA                                                             -.        r                                c > /                                                     ./                                       R.oabdlftal,on  5,4000h
|CENTRAL AND  WEST  JAVA   PROVINCIAL                                                             .         CI.la7                  I                                             -> '  ,)   -     .,   .-                 c066660   '\  Srnoll 5001. 3.170ha
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                  WIL&YAN PRLAn10                               WIIAYAR BAYUMAS                                 , K
R.k,.bi1itmi-: 13,050hohiBAYUM  lAS                               WILAYAH KEDU 
r:^Aw      Mctiu  Scolt Nw [rig-ti- Sce                                S-11 SCb 6,7'i0 h..                             Reb obitotio  0 h.-             hobiliotti-n 6,580 ho.                Di. 
((6S001    a(oo in hO.)                                                                                                                             Smoll Scale: 5,130 ho.           YOGYAKARTA .'1
7 Mid-Lc,i S.bpnaij.t                                                                                                                                                      YO YKAT
______  Bood,
Roihay
-         Wi,yoh. (Didtni6) 6o1doif
0               so               600              650 K,I6.e
INDIA N                             OCEAN
106-                                    107-                 ltionolw                                                                                           1!- -          -Ill a0--- 
606                                     10?                                     606                                    1000                                    60                                       6111



