nmet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-4205-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS166 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 16, 1985
Thh d_it ha a reiced dIbutIa. md my be md by redpieab gay in the perfoane of
tbdr acid  dutb& lb ceutib   M   mwwse be dieued withu Wwdd BDamk autzodn .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rp 1,100
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m       =  meter (39.37 inches)
km      =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
sq km   =  square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
ha      =  hectare (2.47 acres)
t       =  metric ton (2,205 pounds)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS  ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMS USED
ADB        _   Asian Development Bank
DGWRD      -   Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DOI-I&II   -   Directorates of Irrigation I and II
EEC        -   European Economic Community
GOI        -   Government of Indonesia
HYV        -   High Yielding Varieties of Rice
IPEDA      -   Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
Kabupaten  -   Administrative District
H&E        -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MW         -   Ministry of Public Works
O&M        -   Operation and Maintenance
Palawija   -   Secondary food crops (maize, soybeans, cassava, groundnuts,
etc.) grown mainlv in dry season
PPL        -   Village LeveL extension worker
Repelita   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita 1, 1964-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV, 1984-
89; Repelita V, 1989-1994)
Sawah      -   Lowland rice fields
SEKNEG     -   State Secretariat on Procurement Matters
Wilaya     -   Irrigation District
WUA        -   Water User Association



FOR OFFXIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND VEST JAVA PROVINCIAL.IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Amount:        US$166 miLlioD equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20-years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would strengthen the irrigation services
of Central and West Java Provinces, particularly in project
preparation, implementation, and operation and maintenance
(O&N), and improve cost recovery and O&N funding through
increased land taxes. The project would cover the Government
of Indonesia's (GOI) six-year rehabilitation and construction
program for small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes in
Central and West Java. The project includes: (a) rehabiLi-
tation of 60,000 ha of existing systems and c^nstruction of
74,300 ha of small- and medium-scale schemes; (b) preparation
of detailed designs for the rehabilitation of existing systems
(45,000 ha), development of small- and medium-scale systems
(45,000 ha) and upgrading of existing systems to be used as
pilot training areas for field staff (50,000 ha); (c) construc-
tion of a new run-of-the-river diversion scheme (11,300 ha) in
the Dumpil area of Central Java; (d) surveys for updating land
classification and assessment for tax purposes to improve cost
recovery; and (e) consultancy services for on-the-job training,
project coordination, construction supervision and studies for
future projects.
Although Indonesia is now Largely self-sufficient in rice,
steady increases in national rice consumption and the limited
scope for expanding the irrigated area on Java make it vital
for the country to intensify food production by rehabilitating
systems where required and by expanding existing village irri-
gation schemes. At fuLl project development, an incremental
quantity of about 347,000 tons of paddy, about 11,000 tons of
maize and 15,000 tons of groundnuts would be produced annually.
The increased production would have a substantial impact on
raising the incomes of about 530,000 rural families, the major-
ity of which are smallholders and laborers. An equivalent of
45,000 full-time farm jobs would be created in an area where
45Z of the population has incomes below the absolute poverty
I  hi documnt has a sticWd distibuton and may be used by recpients only in the performance
| of dwofficial dudte In contents may not oherwi be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
line, about one fourth of the farm househoLds are landless, and
unemployment is high.
Risks associated with the project include a possible failure to
recruit adequate staff, inadequate provision of O&M funds, and
delays in engaging consultants. These risks have been
addressed in the project design by identifying staff from com-
pleted Bank-assisted projects who would soon be available to
work on the proposed project, appointment of consultants as a
condition of loan effectiveness, and Government agreement that
a part of incremental land tax funds generated through land
reclassification and reassessment of the land tax on irrigated
land, would be allocated directly to the Provincial Irrigation
Services for O&M purposes.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
Local         Foreign    Total
(USS million)- -
Provincial Irrigation
Civil works and land acquisition             99.7           53.2      152.9
Consultant services and training, etc.        8.6            8.3       16.9
IPEDA surveys and reassessment                2.1            3.2        5.3
Dumpil Subproject and Studies
Civil works and land acquisition             20.6           14.8       35.4
Consultant services and studies               3.5            3.8        7.3
Administration                                  10.0              -       10.0
Base Cost /a                             144.5           83.3      227.8
Physical contingencies                       13.5            8.1       21.6
Price contingencies                          30.5           22.4       52.9
Total Project Cost                       188.5          113.8      302.3
Financing PLan:
Bank                                         62.8          103.2      166.0
Government of Indonesia                     118.3             -       118.3
EEC                                           7.4           10.6       18.0
Total                                    188.5          113.8      302.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY             1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
(USS million)
Annual               8.0    22.0    30.0    35.0    34.0    26.0    11.0
Cumulative           8.0    30.0    60.0    95.0   129.0   155.0   166.0
Rate of Return:    24Z overall
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5830-IND, dated December 9, 1985.
Map:  IBRD No. 19116.
a/   Costs include taxes of US$24.2 million on civil works, equipment and
services.



REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$166.0 million to help
finance the Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation Development Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY V
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selecced social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a popuLation of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the wnrld's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with pLentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest ruraL population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The L983 estimate of GNP yr capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries._
I/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Nusa Tenggara
Agricultural Support Projct (No. P-4184-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-329 dated November 12, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on December 3, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investmenc and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabiLicate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private in-"estment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when che current accounE enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture. chrougn investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4X p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of seLf-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments Led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
Ca)  a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b)  a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c)  successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d)  a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e)  introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and
(f)  an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-



dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. GDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculcure sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.7Z in 1983 and 6.5% in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated USS1.9 billion (2.4Z
of GNP) in 1984/85. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industrial countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oiL
exports. The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real
expenditures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal
discipLine, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983
and 9% in 1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one oX the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
7atory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constrainL imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment whiLe still meeting the Government's emplovment objec-
tives.  It is therefore importanc that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustmencs to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at Least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be caLLed upon to play
an increasingly important role in capitaL formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announced simpLifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearLy demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external



trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate poLicies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a prediLection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production - have served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counter productive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
ervironment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingLy important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise.  For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenLy
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
TO a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettLed permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 miLlion people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of



-5-
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57X to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment "ill be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3% p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient. relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolucion of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informp'
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock developmenc.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educationdi base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a sub-



- 6 -
stantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be necess-
ary as weLl as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system. In the
health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the
sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in quality
will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemen-
ted by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in
indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be maintained. By
1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population had access to safe
water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75Z, respectively, for
1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(KLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at 16
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio. again based on net exports, would rise to about 30X in 1989 and then
grad~ually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1Z, and
the share of debt service, 10.3Z compared with 13.3% and /.9X, respecrively,
in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973174, the bulk of the Bank Croup's lending in the
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (incLuding transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transporta-
tion, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, popuLation and nutrition, and technicaL assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to emplovment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvemencs in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, che adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and che measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of developmenc objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on a Nusa Tenggara
Agricultural Support Project (No. P-4184-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-329 dated November 12, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on December 3, 1985.



- 8 -
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the Lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In alL, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20% of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       There has 4een a improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 17% in FY85. The poor
FY80 ratio was in Large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
covernment's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Objectives
21.       The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to a sustainable self-sufficiency level
(especially rice) to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural
exports, particularLy of smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive,
sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water, and natural resources.
Food Crops
22.       Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI has concen-
trated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple food of the
majority of Indonesians. Rice production grew from 13.1 million tons in 1970
to 23.3 million tons in 1983. During 1970-81, production increased by about
4.9% per year due to an increase in the harvested area and substantial yield
increases. Production slowed to 2.2% per year between 1981 and 1983 mainly
due to drought. Rice consumption during this period increased at an average
of 4.5% per year, stimulated by rising incomes. In 1980 and 1981, Indonesia
became largely self-sufficient in rice, and rice imports declined from 2.0
million tons in 1980 to 0.3 million tons in 1982. Although the poor harvest
of 1982 forced GOI to increase imports once again, the 1984 rice crop was
about 25.5 million tons, and buffer stocks have increased to some 3 million
tons. It is expected that for most "average rainfall" years, rice production
will meet demand, provided that the present rate of irrigation development is
maintained. While production gains of other major food crops (maize, cassava,



- 10 -
soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) were not so impressive as those for
rice, they have exceeded population growth.
23.       In view of the importance GOI attaches to increased food crop pro-
duction, the Bank and GOI have undertaken a series of sector studies, the most
recent of which are: Policy Options and Strategies for Major Food Crops, April
1983, Report 3686-IND; and Irrigation Sector Review: An Issues Paper, October
1982, updated in May 1984, which reviewed the irrigation work program and
budget in the Fourth National Five-Year Development PLan for 1984-89 (Repelita
IV).
The Irrigation Subsector
24.       Almost all rice production gains since 1968 have resulted from
improvements in irrigated and wetland farming. It is difficult to qtuantify
the contributions of the major factors (irrigation expansion and imfrovement,
modern varieties. and fertilizers), but it is estimated that about ±6% of the
increases between 1970 and 1981 were associated solely with expansion and
improvements in irrigation, about 9X with improved rice varieties and ferti-
lizer use, and some 75% with the joint interaction of these variables.
25.       Improved rice varieties and fertilizer use are likely to play a
lesser role in increasing Indonesia's future rice production. The use of high
yielding varieties (HYVs) is already quite extensive (about 80% of the
irrigated and wetland crop) and is unlikely to expand beyond 90% in 1990.
Fertilizer use is also high, particularly on Java, and nitrogen applications
above present levels would be wasted and cause crop losses due to lodging and
greater insect damage. With such already high fertilizer and HYV use, future
yield increases wiLl depend primarily on improving the quality of irrigation
and water management, and expanding irrigation to presently dryland areas.
26.       The growing secerity of water supplies for agricultural, municipal
and industrial purposes in Java highlights the need for increased emphasis on
water resources management and appropriate allocation of supplies. GOI's main
objectives for water resource development during Repelita IV are: investment
in irrigation to sustain self-sufficiency in rice; swamp reclamation for
transmigration; and river control works to develop multipurpose use of water
resources for irrigation, municipal water supply, flood mitigation, and
hydropower. The sector work carried out by the Bank with GOI assistance
concluded that the following program of irrigation works would be justified
under the plan:
(a)  Completing construction of 0.5 milLion ha of ongoing rehabiLitation,
and 0.2 million ha of new irrigation works including medium- and
large-scale systems. New rehabilitation projects and tertiary
network construction of 0.6 million ha wouLd be pursued, together
with 0.27 million ha of new small-, medium-, and large-scale irriga-
tion works. Construction of at least two major dams on Java to
supply water for irrigation intensification will also be included as
part of the program. This would enable GOI to maintain self-
sufficiency in rice production, which requires an annual growth of
3.5% (harvested area growth of 1.4% and yield growth of 2.1%);



- 11 -
(b) Completing construction of ongoing works for 0.1 million ha of tidal
swamp reclamation (gross area), and a further 0.3 million ha of new
reclamation works to accommodate 20,000 to 25,000 transmigrant
families per year. An additional 0.1 million ha of already settled
inland swamp area need rehabilitation and improved water control;
and
(c) Constructing river control and improvement works (levees, dams,
etc.) and volcanic debris control in about 20 river basins through-
out the country to allow more efficient multipurpose use of water.
27.       GOI's program of irrigation and water resources development during
Repelita IV would cost an estimated US$4.0 billion at current costs. About
one third of this amount, equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of foreign-
assisted projects, is expected to be financed from external loans. The pro-
posed program shows a significant reorientation of priorities away from large-
scale irrigation and towards improved operation and maintenance (O&M), flood
control, swamp reclamation, and small- and medium-scale irrigation carried out
by Provincial Irrigation Services. These changing priorities also reflect a
change in the regional distribution of investments from Java to Sumatra and
Sulawesi.
28.       The main constraints on irrigation development relate to improving
0&M and insuring adequate cost recovery. Since current O&M standards are
often inadequate, GOI has recently begun to allocate increased funds for O&M
and the Provincial Irrigation Services responsible for O&M are being improved
under the Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province) Projecc (Ln. 2119-IND)
and the Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Ln. 2375-IND).
Similar assistance would be provided to the Central and West Java Provinces
under the proposed project. Cost recovery through levying of the land tax
(IPEDA) is an efficient collection method, and links levies to the productive
capacity of farm lands. However, reclassification of newly irrigated lands
and reassessment of Land taxes have often been slow. The proposed project
therefore incLudes provisions to accelerate reclassification and to increase
0&M funding from increased land taxes (see paras. 52-53 below).
The Role of the Bank Group
29.       Since 1968. the Bank has provided US$1.2 billion for 22 irrigation
projects in Indonesia. The earliest projects were designed to repair major
systems to quickly increase rice output. Later projects provided additional
rehabilitation of existing systems, drainage, flood protection, and tertiary
networks. The most recent projects include measures to strengthen planning,
programming, and budgeting capacity and management information systems
(Irrigation Projects XV and XVI, Cr. 995 and Ln. 2118-IND, respectively), and
to build up the capacity of Provincial Irrigation Services in the East Java
Province (Ln. 2119-IND) and in eight ocher provinces (Ln. 2375-IND).
30.       During Repelita IV, the Bank s involvement in the sector will empha-
size institution-building and address persistent sector-wide problems such as
poor O&M standards. Lending will focus on:



- 12 -
(a) strengthening of national and provincial irrigation services, and
improving their operation and maintenance performance; and
(b)  a small number of technically complex projects, such as multipurpose
dams, or projects which present difficult economic choices, or in
which Bank participation can mobilize significant cofinancing.
Experience under Previous Projects
31.       The first six Bank-assisted irrigation projects have been comr-
pleted.  Project Performance Audits have been carried out for four projects -
and a follow-up Impact Evaluation Report on the first project (Cr. 127-IND) is
also available (Report No. 4575, June 1983). The most serious implementation
problems were construction delays and cost overruns. The delays arose because
of GOI's cumbersome local bidding, contracting and fund release procedures,
and shortages of local funds. Cost overruns were due to additional quantities
of work required after detailed design, and increased unit costs due to rapid
inflation and construction delays. However, cost increases were more than
offset by higher rice prices, and economic rates of return are therefore
expected to exceed 40%. Other problem areas include the need to improve O&M
services at provincial levels; to provide technical and administrative support
to water user associations; and to promote efficient water use. These
problems have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project
and are also recognized in the strategy adopted for Bank assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The proposed project was prepared by Government with the assistance
of consultants and was appraised in April/May 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 28 to November 1, 1985.  The Indonesia delegation was
led by Mr. Soebandi Wirosoemarto, Assistant to the Minister of Public Works.
A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5830-IND) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Supplemental project data are available in Annex III.
Project Objectives
33.       The main objectives of the proposed project are in line with the
Government's development strategy for the irrigation subsector. The project
aims at complementing previous Bank support to water resources development in
Indonesia's Central and West Java Provinces and increasing food crop produc-
tion to a sustainable self-sufficiency Level, thus reducing food grain imports
and foreign exchange expenditures for rice. The project would also enhance
employment and incomes in the agricultural sector.
5/   Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978.  Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.



- 13 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Provincial irrigation
34.       In common with most other countries, Indonesia has found it more
difficult to improve O&M levels for existing systems than to rehabilitate old
systems or construct new schemes. Now that Indonesia is approaching rice
self-sufficiency in normal rainfall years, the pressure to expand irrigacion
systems is slowing, and making che best use of investments already made
becomes more urgent. The Bank is playing a key role in supporting decentral-
ization of responsibilities co the Provincial Irrigation Services and in
resolving difficult institutional issues such as water management, project
preparation, implementation and O&M capabilities and funding at provincial
levels. Increased cost sharing by project beneficiaries is another major
thrust to be pursued under the project.
Project Components
35.       The project would include three major components in Central and West
Java Provinces as well as a subproject in the Dumpil area of Central Java.
Central and West Java Provincial Irrigation
(a) Irrigation Development
-    rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems covering about
60,000 ha, development of new or expansion of existing small-
and medium-scale schemes for about 74,300 ha and support for
upgrading the existing rehabilitated systems as pilot training
areas for the field staff; and
-    preparation of detailed designs covering a cotal area of about
90,000 ha in both provinces for the rehabilitation of existing
systems and development of small- and medium-scale systems as
well as about 50,000 ha to be upgraded as pilot training areas
for the field staff.
(b) Institutional Development and Facilities
-    consultancy services for on-the-job training and project
coordination in both provinces;
-    construction of offices at the provincial headquarters and
overseer (juru) houses in both provinces;
-    initial and recurrent yearly expenditures related to field
training, monitoring and evaluation and strengthening of the
water users associations;
-    procurement of vehicles for the Provincial Irrigation Services,
training activities and construction supervision; and
-    procurement of miscellaneous office, survey and hydrological
equipment.



- 14 -
(c) IPEDA Surveys and Mapping
-    aerial photographs, rectified photomaps, demarcation of
property boundaries and listing of land owners for villages
with rehabilitated irrigation systems, covering a total gross
area of about 670,000 ha;
-    provision of office equipment and computer training for the
IPEDA central and provincial staff; and
-    technical assistance through consultancy services for the
review and supervision of mapping and survey activities.
Dumpil Subproject and Studies
(a) Irrigation Development - construction of a new run-of-the-river
diversion scheme at Dumpil on the Lusi River in Central Java serving
about 11,300 ha of new irrigable land; and
(b) Consultancy Services - for construction supervision and preparation
of construction drawings for the Dumpil area; detailed design of
drainage works in the Dolok-Penggaron area and studies as well as
reLated designs of irrigation and drainage development in the
Tuntang-Jragung area; and a feasibility study and detailed design of
the Bongo irrigation project in North Sulawesi.
Status of Project Preparation
36.       For the provincial irrigation component, designs for about 5,400 ha
of rehabilitation jorks in both Central and West Java Provinces are ready for
implementation during the first project year. Designs for about 60Z of the
smaLl-scale systems (35,000 ha) are completed and are ready to be put to
tender. Designs for about 75Z of the medium-scale systems (19,000 ha) have
been prepared but more than half require review and some revision. Detailed
designs and tender documents have already been completed for the diversion dam
and main and secondary canals in the Dumpil area. Lands have been acquired
for works ro be implemented in FY86187; for the remaining works, the land
acquisition will be completed a year earlier than the scheduled construction
time. No difficulties are foreseen in acquiring the required rights of way.
Conditions of Board presentation are the receipt of proposals for training and
coordination consultancy services from short-listed local consultants expected
to associate with directly appointed foreign consultants, and approval of
tender documents for the constructin of Dumpil diversion dam by all concerned
COI agencies. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of
consultants contracts for project training and coordination. Conditions of
disbursement for the Dumpil component would be the effectiveness of the
European Economic Community (EEC) grant, award of the contract for
construction of the Dumpil diversion dam, and the signing of the consultant's
contract for the Dumpil construction supervision.



- 15 -
Project Organization and Implementation
37.       The principal executing agency for the project would be the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW).  The DGWRD Directorate of Irrigation I (DOI-I) would
provide technical guidance and administrative support to the Irrigation
Services in both project provinces and serve as the central funding channel
for loan and government funds. The heads of the Provincial Irrigation
Services would direct day-to-day field activities, with a Deputy Project
Manager acting as the effective full-time head in each province. In Central
Java, field sections of three of the six districts controL the work of all
three services, namely Irrigation, Roads, and Housing and Urban Development.
The Governor of Central Java has issued a decree stating that seventeen public
works sections of the Pati, Kedu, and Surakarta Wilayahs would be organized
.nto separate irrigation sections on January 1, 1986. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that by September 30, 1986, GOI would assign
required qualified staff and provide adequate budgets to the reorganized
sections in Central Java. Additional staffing needs of the project would be
filled by provincial irrigation staff returning from compLeted Bank-assisted
projects and through recruitment of new graduate engineers in both provinces.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the required staff build-up
for both project provinces would take place according to an agreed schedule.
Assurances were also obtained that vehicles required for the first project
year would be delivered before September 30, 1986 in accordance with a
schedule agreed with the Bank, and the remaining vehicles would be delivered
before September 30, 1987.
38.       The Directorate of rrrigation II (DOI-II) would be responsible for
the Dunpil component and various studies included under the project. The
Directorate General of Taxation through its Directorate of Land Tax within the
Ministry of Finance would be responsible for the mapping, reclassification and
reassessment activities related to IPEDA. A project office was established
and a Project Manager has been appointed who reports directly to the Director
of IPEDA and would manage day-to-day operations. At the national level, a
coordinating committee would be established to coordinate mapping and
reclassification activities with other agencies. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GOI would escabLish the coordinating committee before
September 30, 1986. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that
all consultants required under the project would be employed in accordance
with the Bank guidelines to undertake training, coordination, studies, designs
and construction supervision activities according to the terms and conditions
agreed with the Bank.
39.       The project would be implemented over a six-year period, starting
with the construction of civil works for the provincial irrigation schemes in
July 1986. Construction of the Dumpil diversion dam would begin in October
1986.



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing
40.       Total project costs are estimated at US$302.3 million (including
taxes of about US$24.2 million), of which US$113.8 million (or 38%) would be
foreign exchange. Project costs are expressed in December 1985 prices and an
exchange rate of Rp 1,100 per US$ was used in the calculations. Unit prices
for civiL works are based on recently contracted costs of similar projects
carried out by various agencies in both provinces. A 15% allowance for
physical contingencies has been included for the rehabilitation and upgrading
works; 10X for small- and medium-scale schemes, training and IPEDA mapping and
survey activities; and 5Z for Dumpil civil works and consultant services.
Price contingencies over the project period amount to 23% (US$52.9 million) of
the base cost plus physical contingencies. Price increases for local costs
are estimated at 6Z in 1986-90, and 4.5% thereafter; and for foreign costs at
7% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990 and 4.5X
thereafter.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$166 million would finance about 60% of
total project costs excluding taxes and reserved procurement of vehicles
(US$1.4 million). The EEC is expected to provide parallel financing in the
form of a grant of about US$18 million for construction of the Dumpil
diversion dam and consulting services for the design of drainage for the
Dolok-Penggaron area, and feasibility studies and detailed design of irriga-
tion development for the Tuntang-Jragung area. Effectiveness of the EEC grant
would be a condition of Bank disbursement for the Dumpil component. External
assistance of US$184 million (Bank loan and EEC grant) would cover the foreign
exchange cost (US$113.8 million) and 41% of Local costs (US$70.2 million) or
66Z of total project cost excluding taxes. GOI would finance the balance of
US$118.3 million through budgetary allocations.
Procurement
42.       Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are shown in the
following table (page 17).
43.       Civil Works.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
would be used for the construction of the Bapang and Randugunting medium-scale
schemes in Central Java Province (US$10.0 million), the Cimandari (medium-
s'ale) and Cikuntan (rehabilitation) schemes in West Java Province (US$12.0
n. llion); and the diversion dam (US$14.7 million) and main and secondary
canals (US$16.3 million) in the Dumpil area. The EEC is expected to finance
construction of the dam, for which GOI would follow EEC guidelines. Bank
guidelines would be used for the canal construction contracts. The provincial
irrigation works, offices and buildings, and tertiary development and drainage
works in the Dumpil area would be packaged into a series of about 340 smaller
contracts, including about 20 multi-year civil works contracts each exceeding
US$1.5 million in value and 320 single-year contracts most of which would be
less than US$500,000 in value (US$138 million). Further packaging of the 20
multi-year contracts into larger contracts for tendering under local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) procedures was considered but was not found feasible.
These contracts are planned for 15 medium-scale systems, about 18 rehabilita-
tion schemes with areas larger than 700 ha, and about 10 small-scale systems



- 17 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURF RY PROC[rRPFSNT CATECORY /a
(USS million)
ICR     LCh    OFter /b         N/Arotal
Civil Uorks
Provincial Irrigation                         22.0   133.5       -        -    155.5
(16.5) (101.1)                   (117.4)
Bumpil Subproject
Diversion dam contract (EEC financing)    14.7         -       _        -     14.7
C-)                               C-)
Main and secondary canals                   16.3       -       _        -     14.3
(12.2)                           (12.2)
Drainage, tertiaries and offices              -       4.n      _        -      4.0
(3.M)                    (3.)
Subtotal                                  53.n   137.5       -        -    190.0
=28.7) Ctin4.1 )                 12)
Consultants and Tratning
Provincial Trrigation
Training and coordination consultancy,        -        -     10.0       -
monitoring & evaluation. water users                      (10.0)           (10.0)
associatfons and misc. training
Detailed designs                              -        -      fi.2      -      6.?
(6.2)           (4.2)
IPEDA technical assistance and                -        -     (09)       _     (0)
misc. training.                                            (0.9)            (n.9)
Duripil Suhproject and Studies
Constriction supervision. tertiary            -        -       5        -      4.5
system design, and Bongo area studies                      (4.5)            (4.5)
Dolok-Penggaron drainage design and           -        -      3.6       -      3.6
Tuntang-Jragung area studies and                            C-)              C-)
design (EWC financing)
Snbtotal                                  -       -        25.2       -     25.2
MN.)             (TZl.6
Vehicles and equipment                        -       0.7              1.4     7.1
(0.4)            (-)    (0.4)
IPEDA
Havoing and properties identification          -      4.0               -      4.n
(3.6)                    (3.6)
Reclassification and reassessment                             2.0              2.0
C()              *-)
Administration anA land acquisition           -        -       -      37.7    3?.7
C- )    (-)
Physical contingencies (unallocated)              -        -     21.6       -     21.6
(7.6)            (7.6)
Total (E.xcluding Taxes)                  53.0   142.2    4R.8    34.1   278.1
(2R.7) (InR.1)  (?9.    T)   (16.n)
raxes                                                                 24.2    24.2
(-)     C-)
Total (Including Taxes)                                                    302.1
/a  Numhers in parentheses indicate loan disbursements.  Other fitures are hase costs plus
expected price increases.
/h nther includes consulting services and Covernment force account.



- 18 -
with areas larger than 600 ha. The systems are located in 11 irrigation
districts (wilayahs) in both provinces, with each wilayah administratively
responsibLe for the works carried out within its boundaries. Packaging of
contracts spread over two or three wilayahs would require special organiza-
tional arrangements that would dilute the responsibilities and capabilities of
district irrigation offices, which project aims to strengthen. Since most of
the remaining works are widely dispersed and would be tendered over a six-year
period, they are unlikeLy to attract international contractors. LCB proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank would therefore be used, with foreign contractors
eligible to participate.
44.       Equipment and Consultants.  Small office, survey and minor O&M
equipment (US$0.7 million) would be procured locally in small lots through COI
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Due to their small size, ICB
would not be suitable for these contracts. Consultants would be engaged in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
Review of Procurement
45.       The Bank would review, prior to tendering and award, the six ICB
contracts for three medium-scale schemes and two systems to be rehabilitated
(US$22.0 million), the three ICB contracts for the main and secondary canals
in the Dumpil area (US$16.3 miLlion) and 20 multi-year LCB contracts each
exceeding US$1.5 million in value (US$51.1 mill.on), thus covering about 51%
of the total contract value of about US$176 million. EEC would review in
accordance with its own guidelines the diversion dam construction contract
(US$14.7 million). Other civil works contracts (US$86.4 million), each valued
at less than US$1.5 million and equipment procured in small lots not exceeding
US$0.1 million in vaLue, would be reviewed by the GOI Procurement Control
Units, and subsequently by the Bank, on a sample basis after award. All
contracts related to IPEDA mapping and property ownership identification
activities exceeding US$100,000 wouLd be subject to the Bank's review prior to
tendering and award.
Disbursement
46.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed excluding taxes as
follows: 100% of the total cost for construction of offices and housing, 75%
of the total cost of other civil works; 100% of the cost of imported equipment
and materials; 95% of the total ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
65% of the total cost of imported equipment and materials procured locally;
90% of IPEDA mapping and surveying costs; and 100% of the cost of interna-
t4onally recruited consultant services and training. Disbursement would be
made against contracts, except for the cost of training, designs carried out
by Indonesian consultants, IPEDA mapping and property ownership identification
contracts below US$200,000, IPEDA equipment and training expenditures,
miscellaneous equipment, monitoring and evaluation, and civil works contracts
of less than US$1.5 miilion, which would be disbursed against statements of
expenditure. Disbursement is projected over a six-and-a-half year period and
follows fairly closely the disbursement profile for previous Indonesian
irrigation projects during the initial three years, a period of intense on-
the-job training, completion of remaining design work and tender documents for



- 19 -
multi-year contracts. With these activities either completed or fully under
way at the end of the third year, project activities are expected to be
slightly (about 4-1O0) ahead of the current trend in the disbursement
profile. Loan closing is expected by December 31, 1992.
Accounts and Audits
47.       Separate detailed accounts and records are kept by DGWRD, the IPEDA
Directorate and the Provincial Irrigation Services for each budget item by
project and budget year. Carry-overs of unspent funds are permitted for two
years. Because of this, cash books and accounts are not closed until the
budget for the line item has been fully spent. Project accounts are subject
to two audits: (a) by the Inspector General of the concerned ministries; and
(b) by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of
both auditors hab been found to be generally satisfactory on Bank-assisted
irrigation projects. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
adequate and separate accounts would be maintained; all contracts, documents
related to statements of expenditure, and orders and receipts would be kept at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fisal year
in which the last withdrawal from this loan account was made and independent
audits by BPKP of each year's accounts would be submitted to the Bank within
nine months of the close of each GOI fiscal year.
Operation and Maintenance
48.       The quality of operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation
network is currently constrained by a lack of trained staff and inadequate
funding. The Provincial Irrigation Services, which are responsible for O&M of
the main and secondary networks, are severely hampered by inadequate technical
and operational staff at the sectional and subsectional operational level.
The proposed project would address this through on-the-job training and staff-
ing increases. Field training for O&M staff would cover formulation and
application of O&M procedures, planning and supervision of activities such as
upgrading and O&M in the pilot training units and training of instructors to
train lower-level field staff. Training would be carried out by district
training teams consisting of three instructors ir. each district. Additional
staffing needs of the project wouLd be filled by the provincial irrigation
staff returning from secondment to the completed special projects. About 20
engineers would be recruited or promoted over the next four years. Technical
staff shortfalls could easily be made up through recruitment and promotion of
staff returning from various universities. To ensure proper O&M of small-
scale schemes, during negotiations assurances were obtained that diversion
structures would be operated and maintained by the Provincial Irrigation
Services and whenever the service area is divided into multiple tertiary
blocks, channels leading to the tertiary blocks would also be operated and
maintained by the Irrigation Services, and that adequate O&M funds would be
provided for such schemes. In addition, the project would provide improved
reporting systems and monitoring and evaluation capabilities to support O&M.
49.       Water users associations (WUAs) are responsible for O&M of tertiary
and quaternary canals. A typical association has an area of about 70 to 100
ha and a membership of 100 to 200 farmers. Most of the WUAs were established



- 20 -
at the village level and are now being reorganized based on tertiary blocks.
The WUAs are generally weak, and active mainly in areas where water is
limited. The project would provide an opportunity for establishing initially
effective WUAs in the 55,000 ha of irrigation schemes to be upgraded as pilot
training areas under the project. Responsibility for organizing and counsel-
ing the WUAs would be assigned to a Provincial Coordinating Committee chaired
by the Assistant Secretary to the Provincial Government for Production whose
members would be nominated by both the Provincial Irrigation and Agriculture
Services. Each service would be responsible for training the WUAs in their
area of technical expertise. The Provincial Irrigation Service would manage
training related to operation and maintenance of the tertiary network and
water management, while the training administered by the Provincial
Agricultural Service would focus on crop production and effective water use at
the farm Level. Performance of the WUAs in the pilot areas wouLd be evaluated
during a mid-term project review and extended to the remaining project areas
of both provinces.
50.       Funding.  0&M of tertiary systems operated by WUAs is funded through
labor and in-kind contributions of farmers. At present, arrangements are that
farmers are expected to pay 20 kg of paddy per ha per crop to the WUA and
provide about 12 man-days of labor per year for the maintenance of tertiary
and quarternary canals. These arrangements are adequate to cover all O&M
needs of the tertiary network, and total about Rp 12,300 equivalent per ha per
year in 1985 prices.
51.       O&M funding requirements for main and secondary irrigation systems
in the Central and West Java Provinces are estimated to average Rp 18,000 per
ha in 1985 prices. For systems designated as special projects (totaling about
250,000 ha in Central Java and 300,000 ha in West Java, or about 35% of the
irrigated area of these provinces), O&M funding in the current 1985/86 budget
year amounts to about Rp 15,000 per ha, or about 80% of the desirable level.
For the remaining irrigated areas operated by Provincial Irrigation Services,
allocations in the current budget year, including subsidies provided by the
Central Government, amount to about Rp 10,600 per ha in Central Java and
Rp 7,900 per ha in West Java, or about 60% of the desirable level. During
negotiations GOI indicated its intention to continue the trend of recent years
of increasing the funding for O&M of irrigation systems by about 10% per year
in current terms through the Central Government budget and expects that full
funding of the required O&M would be achieved in about five years. The longer
term GOI strategy is to significantly increase provincial funding through
increased mobilization of revenues under the land tax (IPEDA) program.
52.       Water Charges and Land Tax (IPEDA).  There are no direct irrigation
water charges in Indonesia except for farmer contributions to Water User
Associations for the upkeep of tertiary irrigation systems. The lack of
adequate revenues in the irrigation subsector imposes an unduly heavy burden
on GOI in financing new development and in operating and maintaining irriga-
tion systems. To ease this burden, revenues in the irrigation subsector
should be increased, commensurate with benefits. In view of a long tradition
of farmers' perceived inalienable right to free surface water, and various
political and social constraints, GOI is not ready at this time to impose
water charges, and the most practical way of increasing revenues appears to be



- 21 -
an increase of land taxes (IPEDA) by applying existing laws and regulations
linking land taxes with, inter alia, rice production and rice prices. A
dialogue has already been initiated with Central Java's provincial government
under the Bank-assisted Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
(Ln. 2543-IND) and in West Java under the West Tarum Canal Improvement Project
(Ln. 2560-IND), to channel locally generated funds through this mechanism for
O&H of main and secondary irrigation systems. A similar approach would be
taken under the proposed project in the areas of Central and West Java where
irrigation systems have been rehabilitated under previous Bank and ADB
projects, as well as areas to be covered by this project.
53.       IPEDA (Iuran Pembangunan Daerah), literally a contribution for rural
development, is commonly collected from farmers by Provincial Governments and
allocated for district (Kabupaten) and other development. The tax is used for
a variety of purposes, but not for the upkeep of main and secondary irrigation
systems, which have traditionally been financed by the Central Government.
Land is classified according to a number of physical criteria, and che land
tax is charged at a fixed cariff which varies by land class and total
landholding. The tax rate could be improved by changing the base paddy price
used in the tax rate calculation from Rp 95/kg to Rp 138/kg, which represents
the average price actually received by farmers in 1984/85, and through a tax
reassessment after reclassification of lands according to their present
productivity - the current assessment is based on a land classification
carried out 10-15 years ago. There is also considerable scope for improving
the tax collection rate. With these changes, at least a three-fold increase in
land taxes could be achieved. In Central Java, the average assessment per ha
in irrigated areas would increase from Rp 5,500 to Rp 37,000 and in West Java
from Rp 10,000 to Rp 33,000 per ha. Such an increase could only be achieved
gradually, because of the time required for mapping, reclassification and
reassessment. However, any change in base paddy price would apply to the
whole country and in view of the current depressed paddy prices throughout
Indonesia, and concern about farmer's incomes, GOI is reluctant to consider
such a change at the present time. Under the proposed project, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that irrigated lands in agreed areas of the
project provinces would be reclassified and the IPEDA rates for these areas
reassessed according to an agreed action plan by September 30, 1990; and
beginning April 1, 1990 a similar exercise would be carried out for the
remaining irrigated areas of both provinces. Assurances were also obtained
that the Central and West Java Provincial Governments would allocate a part of
the incrementaL IPEDA collected chrough the reassessment to the financing of
O&K of main irrigation systems in accordance with pLans to be furnished to the
Bank by December 31, 1988 and December 31, 1989, respectiveLy, for areas to be
developed under this project or already developed under previous projects and
for the remaining irrigated areas of both provinces. It was also agreed that
the Directorate of IPEDA would furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1987, a
plan of action to improve the method of coLlecting rPEDA and carry out the
plan in both provinces after review by the Bank.
Cost and Rent Recovery
54.       The cost recovery index is the ratio of the present value of incre-
mental project charges to the incremental project costs (including investment



- 22 -
and O&E expenses). The project cost recovery index ranges from 10% to 38%
using financial prices and from 12% to 45% using economic prices, which com-
pares favorably with similar irrigation projects. The rent recovery index
represents the ratio of the present value of incremental project charges to
the project rent. The project rent is a measure of the additionaL net income
accruing to the farmers as a consequence of the project. Using financial
prices, the project rent recovery index ranges from 11% to 45%. Using
economic prices, the rent recovery index ranges from 8% to 21%. Larger farms
contribute to the project charges with a greater proportion of the project
rent than do smaller farms.
Agricultural Production and Farm Incomes
55.       For small- and medium-scale schemes, the cropping intensity would
increase by about 20% and uOZ respectively. This increase is possible due to
a slight shift of the cropping calendar, resulting in better use of the avail-
able irrigation water for growing crops (mainly rice) during the dry season.
Cropping intensities in the Dumpil area, now averaging about 210%, would
increase to 275% with the project. Production increases under the project are
primarily attributable to improved yields, especially of rainfed rice which
would rise from a present 2.8 tons/ha in Dumpil to 5.0 tons/ha under irrigated
conditions in the wet season. The estimated annual incremental production
generated by the project at full development would be about 347,000 tons of
paddy, about 11,000 tons of maize, 15,000 tons of groundnuts and 4,000 tons of
soybeans.
56.       In the farm income analysis, budgets have been developed for farm
sizes of 0.4 ha and 1.0 ha representing about 60% of landholdings in Central
Java and 40% in West Java. Annual net farm incomes of all farms would rise as
a result of the project. After subtracting an equal minimum living allowance
from net incomes, the farmers' surplus would be about Rp 132,000 for 0.4 ha
farms in small-scale schemes in West Java, increasing to a maximum of
Rp 1,245,000 for 1.0 ha farms in medium-scale schemes in Central Java. The
farmers' surplus is about 45% higher for Central Java because of current
higher yields and cropping intensity. In the Dumpil area, the farmer's
surplus would be about Rp 137,400 and Rp 778,000 for 0.4 ha and 1.0 ha farms,
respectiveLy. The analysis shows that farmers with either size farm will have
a capacity to pay additional IPEDA or other taxes.
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       The monitoring and evaluation (H&E) system for the project is
designed to improve operations and water management standards through regular
feedback. The system would focus on the impact upon project beneficiaries
through such indicators as cropping intensity, crop yields and net farm
income. These indicators would be analyzed in respect of water supply condi-
tions, farm sizes, crop varieties, input utilization, farm Labor supply and
other factors such as technical status of the farm operators. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that an M&E unit headed by an agri-
culturist would be established before December 31, 1986 in each province. A
detailed plan of action for M&E activities would be submitted for the Bank's
review before March 31, 1987, and the M&E units would start implementing the
agreed program by September 30, 1987.



- 23 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
58.       The proposed projecc complements previous Bank support to warer
resource development in both provinces. The project would increase food crop
production in Central and West Java, reduce foreign exchange expenditures for
rice and food grain imports, and enhance employment and income opportunities
in the agricultural sector. At full development, an incremental quantity of
about 347,000 tons of paddy, about 11,000 tons of maize and 15,000 tons of
groundnuts would be produced annually. An equivalent of 45,000 full-time farm
jobs would be created as a result of crop intensification and about 530,000
rural families, of whom about 45% are small landholders with incomes below the
absolute poverty line, would benefit directly from the project. Investment
costs at about US$700 per farm family would increase per capita incomes by an
average of 35% in Central Java and 60% in West Java.
59.       Project benefits are derived from incremental farm production (rice,
maize and groundnuts) vaLued at economic prices (end-1985 constant dollars)
net of incremental production costs. About 95% of benefits are attributable
to paddy production from an incremental irrigated area of about 40,000 ha.
60.       The economic rate of return (EER) of the entire project is estimated
at about 24Z. The ERRs for project works in West Java, Central Java and
Dumpil are 29%, 27% and 13Z, respectively.
61.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project as a whole is
relatively insensitive to cost overruns, reduced benefits from both lower
production and rice prices. Implementation delays and inadequate O&M could
result in lower, but still acceptable returns. Inadequate staffing in the
first year of the project, delays in consultant contract award and therefore
delays in training constitute a risk that has been minimized by making
consultant contract signing a condition of loan effectiveness and by the
expected availability of staff from completed Bank-assisted projects. The
risk of inadequate O&M is minimized by efforts through the project to
strengthen O&M capabilities of the Provincial Irrigation Services,
continuation of annual increases in funding for O&M from the Central
Government budget and adoption of a similar approach as agreed by GOI in the
last two irrigation loans (Lns. 2543- and 2560-IND) to allocate a portion of
the increased IPEDA land taxes, resulting from mapping and land reclassifica-
tion activities under the project, to the O&M of main and secondary canals.
Environmental Impact
62.       Irrigated sawah (lowland rice fields) is ecologically the most
stable and non-erosive form of land use in Indonesia and the project would
have a positive environmental impact. The provision of drainage under the
Dumpil component would complement efforts under the Kedung Ombo Multipurpose
Dam and Irrigation Project (Ln. 2543-IND) to reduce flooding in the upper
Serang River and at the junction of the Serang and Lusi Rivers. Project
implementation would not involve an increase in the use of agrochemicals, and
Government has taken steps to allow only soft or degradable pesticides into
the country. Public health authorities, with the cooperation of each
Provincial Irrigation Service, would intensify malaria control efforts,



- 24 -
especially in project areas where some of the vectors are present and where
there is already some incidence of malaria. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations on appropriate measures for malaria control in the project area.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 16, 1985
Washington, D.C.



25-                                ANNEX I
Page I of 6 pages
INDONESIA             - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SKCCT
IIIfSIA                            RuZNCC GROUPS (CEIHTE  AVERWRS Ia1
FObT                    (HOST RECENT ESNATE) fb
19 RCCT          RIDDLE INCOME         MIDDLE ICO011
1960/b     1970Lk! E STINTAr      ASIA & PACIPIC         LAT. AMERICA & CAR
ABU (CIwNd Sq. Mo
TOTAL                            1919.3     1919.3     1919.3
AGIOtCULTURAL                    296.5      307.1       315.5
Cu mu CaPTa (Cun)                     ..         ..        560.0                .                   1075.9
mar ensmm v cairn
(xILOcRAMS or OIL EQUIVALR1T)     8.0        99.0       191.0             566.8                   993.6
oi.me nraC srazsic
POPULATEON.HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  94680.0   116201.0   155669.0
URBA  POPULATION CZ OP TOTAL)     14.6        17.1       24.1              35.9                    67.7
POPULATION PROJWEUONS
PULATIN IN TEAR 2000 CILL)                            212.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                          368.0
POPULATILON 303MEW                                      1.8
vONUATION DENSITT
PER SQ. 31.                     49.3       60.5        61.1             386.9                    48.0
PhR SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND         319.3       373.4      483.4            1591.2                    91.1
POPULATI  ACE STRUCTURE C2)
0-14 UDS                       40.7       44.0        40.6              38.2                    38.5
15-b4 US                        56.2       53.4        55.8              57.7                    57.1
65 AND ABOVE                     3.0        2.S         3.5               3.5                     4.2
POPULATION CRUM RATE CZ)
TOTAL                            2.1        2.0         2.2               2.3                     2.4
URBAN                            3.7        3.6        4.3                4.1                     3.6
CRUDC BEITH Rt (PER mS)           44.2       41.0       34.0               30.1                    30.9
CRUDE A14211 RATE (PER 110S)      22.9       17.6        12.8               9.4                     8.0
GROSS RIPOUCTION RATE              2.7        2.7         2.1               1.9                     2.0
FAMLY PLANMING
ACCEPTORS. ANIWAL (CTOUS)        *         181.1     3051.0 /c
USERS CZ OF MARIAUD WOE)         ..         ..         58.0              56.5                    45.3
ViDi SI EURTIOU
INDEX OF FOOD PRD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     93.0      102.0       123.0             124.4                   109.6
PEn CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES CE OF RBQUIREETS)      79.0       92.0       112.0             115.7                   113.2
PROTEINS CGRAMS PER DAY)        34.0       41.0        53.0              60.3                    69.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       6.0        6.0         7.0 Id           14.1                    34.2
CHILD (ACGS 1-4) DEATH RATE       21.9       18.1        13.0               7.2                     4.8
NSLU
LIFE EPECI. AT URTH (tEARS)       41.2       47.0       53.5              60.6                     64.8
INFANT MtT. RATE (PER M3101S)    150.0      121.0       101.0             64.9                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAXER CEPOP)
TOTAL.                                      3.C        23.0              46.0                    65.3
URUN                             ..         10.0      40                 57.6                    76.5
RURAL                            ..         1.0        18.               37.1                    44.2
ACCESS TO EXCR15A DiSPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
SOTAL                            ..         15.0       23.0              50.1                    56.3
URBAU                            ..         19.0       20.0              52.9                    73.6
RURAL                            ..        14.0       24.0               44.7                    25.5
POPULATION PER PRYSICIA        46780.0    26510.0    11530.0 Ie          7751.7                  1909.7
POP. PEA NURSING PERSON         '510.0 7t  7680.0     2300.0 Tl          2464.8                   808.Z
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          1360.0     1650.0     1720.0 1e         1112.1                   362.0
URBAN                          250.0        ..        700.0 7           651.4                   422.0
RURAL                            ..         ..       3160.0 7i         2596.9                  2716.7
ANIUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..         ..         ..               41.1                     27.5
AVERAGE SIZE OF 80USE3LD
TOTAL                            4.4        4.8
URBAN                            4.9        5.3
kURAL                            4.3        4.7
AV1ERE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                            ..          1.5
URBAI                            ..          1.6
RURAL                             *         3.5
PEZRCEATACE OF DUJINGS WMITH LECT.
ToL                               ..        ..
UR                                ..        ....
RURAL                            ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                 Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONESIA        _       SOCIAL INDCATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WECIGTED AVERAGES) la
HOST                     (MOST RECCEN  STIMTE) lb
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           NIDDLE INCOME
1%Olb      1970/b ESTIEAT           ASIA A PACIFIC         LAT. AMZRICA 4 CAR
ADuSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   71.0       77.0       100.0              100.7                    106.7
MALE                   66.0        83.0       106.0             104.4                     108.5
FEIALE                 58.0        75.0       94.0               97.2                     104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  6.0         15.0       33.0               47.8                     44.2
HALE                   1o.O        20.0       38.0               50.6                     42.7
FEMALE                  3.0        10.0       27.0               44.8                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (z OF SECONDARY)         20.4       22.1        13.9               16.4                     13.3
UPIWLLTEACKMR RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0       29.0        29.0               30.4                     29.9
SECONDARY                         14.0       13.0        16.0               22.2                     16.7
amo
PASSENGER CARS/TNOUSAND POP          1.1        2.1         4.4 Ic            10.1                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        7.2        21.9       131.2              172.9                    328.3
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAID POP            0.1        0.8        22.6               58.5                    112.4
NmSPAPER ("DLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            11.0        ..         14.9               65.3                     81.1
CIBeDA ANUUAL AITENDANCE/CAPITA     2.8         ..          1.0 Ic             3.4                      2.4
LAM  onc
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOS)         34791.0    41090.0    54417.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  27.8       30.9        29.3               33.6                     23.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             75.0       66.0        56.0 Ic            52.2                     31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 8.0        10.0       12.0               17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERUar)
TOTAL                             36.7       35.4        35.0               38.9                     33.5
HLE                               54.2       49.5        49.6               50.8                     51.3
FEMALE                            20.0       21.6        20.4               26.8                     15.9
EcONOMIc DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.2        1.3         1.3                1.1                      1.3
EMCEE DISTYI DTDO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE DIOKE
RECED By
HIGHEST 5X OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..         23.5 4
HIGHEST 20X OF NOUSEDOLDS          ..         ..         49.4               48.0..
LOWEST 2CS OF HOUSEHMOLS           ..          ..         6.6                6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..        14.4               15.5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..       124.0 b    124.0J                ..                     2U.)3
RURAL                              ..       106.0 7TW   106.0 T            151.9                    185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVZL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       119.0 lb           1fl.9                    519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        98.0 T            164.7                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. W.AR ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCoME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                              ..        51.0 lh    26.0 th             23.5
RURAL                              ..        59.0 7      44.0 7W            37.8
NOT AVAIABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each iedicator are population-wuighted arith letic warn. Coverage of countrIes
aneg the indicatore depwde oDs avalability of data end is not uniform.
lb  Unlear otherirne noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and daat for "Moat Recent Estimate betweLe 1981 and 1983.
/c  1950; /d 1977; /e 1979; /f 1962; L& 1976; /h 1980 prices.
JUNE. 1985



-27                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DKF117rOM OF SOCUaL INDICATOS
NHa: Although thedisae ldran from soumanayjudpd thmoat autonuaivcand eliable it sould ao b noted tat tbey ay not be imuIly
co.pral beas dof the la of sund delitiom and  aepu wed by dlat cmmtnuri in lcktng thc dte The dbat am noneim  shi to
desribe rdets of raUS. indicattnd, d charac   cemuan myr diflrenu.a bewncounres.
The refrc aiupa m (I) the-an mcunuty Oup o the aubit ceuntry nd (21 a country prou witt somewbat hier nau  incomn tha the coty
gMPof de bctcount (          for-Higb Income Oil Ezpoer pomp whrce Middk Income Nonh Aftia and Middk Eeati chosen becas: of swonr
so-emltwrl aRtenaL In t reree group data the amsn  - poputon w_gd arumc man hbr cach idintor - shown only when ajorty
ofrthe oun nies pbaa deta rot ti;odicator Sin-theeporcouta mnton dtheintndepndontheavWaiabityofdataandisaot uiform.
euto mat beecued in reatg aurl cone indicator touanotw. These vage ate only uaful in comp4ri the vWlue oone indicator at a time among
the mtry and rzekrcn gpour
AtEA (thousand sq.kmL)                                        Cridre  th PRae (per dthumaaf-Number oflive births in the year
Teal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 dataL                                     Crude Det Rae (per uhavsand)-Number or deaths in the year
Agricawaue-Estimate of agricultural ar  used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permnently for crops pastures market and kitchen prdens or to  Gras Repreducra. Rlee-Average number of daughte a womnu
le hlow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her nonnal reproductive period if she experieces
prsent   specific rertiity ates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
maket prices calulated by same conversion method as World     ,m, n-i-Aarws Anua (tAeumiadl-Annual num-
ak tAI  (N1981-83 basis); 1983 dat.                          ber ofacceptors of birth-ontrol devices under auspices of national
ENERtGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary eerg  (coal and lignitc.     Famdl Paing-Viars (pecen of m         _id nwmra-The prccen-
petroeum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geotherm  elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
triity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any fonn of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are gnerally Women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraeptive usage is measured for ober age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATLSTICS                  .groups.
Toda Paparts. Mid- Yea (:heusaa)h-As of July 1:1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
Urim  FbpmlaSon (percent o      - .tio of urban to total      ix qof Fed Pnr   d    Amr Capta (IU71 -  lOt-Index of per
poplaio: iferntdeintinsof uotan) narea Oay ajuea tompar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
aopuia of different definitions of urban areas may   d au     exdudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodites
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   indude primary commodities (e.g. sugacane instead of sugar)
-o          Prejiw                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffee and ta are
Poputzrion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cerals, root crops. puses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabks, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar bees livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paranteters  on national average producer prioc weights: 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assunptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capita Supply of Caies Ipecet ofreqnfremet)-Comput-
Sranienan popuncatn-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorieequivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long penod. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacemnent level  ton. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I i. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantiues used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distnbution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  amd health considering environmental temnperature. body weaghts.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                    waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poplatioff Monretum-Is the tendencv for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Poewein (gram per day)-Proten content of
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiy of food is defined
achived. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries esablished by LrSDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is rft5isured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimatc stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. orwhich 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace-  should be animal proten. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year * onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
nPopbian Dens;y                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqlm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total are  1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                hr Capitai heen Spy Fom Animl ad he-Protein supply
Per sqJam. agriawlural landComputed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perday: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PepaUoI A  Strwefwe (permAt)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Clai (ages 14) Dhu   Rae (per thostnd)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand chikden in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countrics data derived
Popalatian G-rh Rate (,pmCeuk-vor-AnnuaI growth rates of  from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Popumuiou Gwth Rae (pericemr)-mm'an-Annual growth rates       L   Expetancy or Dat A (yewrs-Number of ears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality ror all people



ANNE= I
- 28-                                    Page 4 of 6 pages
at the time oof iu birth we to say the .me tbroughout its lfe. Atpfu;Aar tatio - prOaryh, and seuidarp-Toul sude  -.
tzgWe 1970 ad 1983 data                                      roled in pnury and secondary ekeols divdisd by numbe  of
how mwft*p Rte (pJl uhmmd)-lNumber or inarts who die    teacs in t  comrsponding lveL
befor racg on yar of ape per thous le births in a pun
year, 1960. 1970 ad 19U3 data                                CONSUIJION
asm    S     IWe  (hum Of                  d mi, nd          ?amq  Cal (Pr ars com-
rd-Number of people (ttl uban. and rua) wth ronble           prie motor cars saing Iess tha eight persotw excluda ambul-
a4S to Uf wat  spply iclude  tIWed surface wuf  or            as. beas  and military vehicl.
u ated but unconminte water mac a tht from proied                  Rcei  (p. tetppn )-All tp  of recemes
bmboeole,  prupad unitary waeb) spercentagesofrtheir repee-  ror radio broadcastw togenera public per thousand of populadon;
ve popuations. In an urban ar  a public fountain or stanpost    excludeo ucersd receivers in counte  ad in yea  when
locae nom mom than 00 meter from a botiM may be considere    regiustrton of radio ses was in e0ect; dama for recet year may
bidn  width  masonae a0M; of that bo*  In nIi5 a            no be comprable since most counmtes abolished licesin&
reaonable accs wohul ply that the bouewife or membs ofrte
ho_mold do not hae to sped a diprportont pen of the day      TYVaeaIve, 4armudpoalaelhaD-Treceiverasforbradcast
in fetching the family's water need..                        to genrl public per thousand population excludes unlicensed TV
Awar me EemiOb_l ('pmnum ofp.p hrg.ai--Ovai.  .a~*           re       in countie and in year when m mtr     of TV  t wuas
_d varal-N umber of people (totaL urban. and rural) smed by    ewect
excrete disposa as pretages of tbeir resei  populatons.             u *Pr S                                   th a
Excrete disposal may include the collecton and disposal, with or  ap curculation of -daily gnerl itrt newspaper." defined a a
without treatment. of human excetaL and waswater by water-   pIda pubcation deoted pmarily to rcdig geea news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instaations.  It is considered to be "dAily" ifit appen at kat four time a week.
h       rpdie per Phy chu-4I pulation divided by number of prC-  Cima Annual Attviec per Cape per Yew-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.    number of tickets sold dunng the yea  induding admisons to
pidhri_r pff No-AV  r_Po*-pulation divided by number of      dnve-in cinemu and mobie unitL
practicing male and female gduate nurses. assistant nurss.   L       F
practcal nunse and nursing auxiliaries.                         Lab.' FORCE
Rwaiarin. per FIesp~~~~~~aTod1Law-ratal.                          soisia-Ecaonicawy puve peron   l
oal srban W d Rual) dIvided by tir respecive numberltof        uding anied forces and unemplyd but ecuding housewives.
tostaL urbm   ds rural)diiidnd  public and  r Ba msectivenumber of students. etc.. covering populatio  of all aes. Defnitions in
hospital beds a"azlable in public and private. geneal and spWm  various countries are not covmparable: 1960. 1970 and 1913 data.
hospitals and rehabilitaon center  Hospitals are establishments  vnou coret r1
permanentlh stuffed by at lean one physician. Establishments proy-  F   (pe j-Female labor force as pantage of totl labor
iding prncipally custodl care ame not included. Rura hospitals.    force.
however, include beth and medical ceters not pemanently staffed  Agufen     (percat)-Labor force in fami   frestry, huntoig
by a physician (but by a medical assisanL nurse. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor fore: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patiet a_cmmodauon and provide a limited rang  data.
Of medical facilities.                                       Ixstry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction manu-
A.d.ssion poer Hosptl Red-Total number of admissions to or    rfaauring and ekctrcity. water and gas as percentag of tol bor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
ikp         a    ,                       ltion
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as totaL sine and female abor forc
Aera  Siw of Hoshbld (prsur per haaisehoW-raiealeu .         as percentages of totaL malk and female population of all ags
asdrwual-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  mscc:ivriy 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on tlOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  paruicipation rates reflecting age-sex strumre of the popula    and
may not be included in the household for statistcal purposes.  long time trend. A few estumas are from natonal sources.
Avra  Yunber of Pern per Room--uoal urban. and rrawl-        Ec.mic Dpendency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural   65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P^erwc ge of Dueqs with Eetricity-0taa. W*an. and rural-     Pewentage of Total Disposbk eincowe (both i cash  d kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electncitv in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.      hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
* 'ristd Erout Radts                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pru,ary xsoof - toral. mak  nd femal-Gross wtaL male and     kvels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prmnary level as percentages of  E&thnsid Absohute Ptrmy hnene Lewd fUSS pr caps)--arbon
respecive prmary school-ae populations. While many countries  ad ruraf-Absolute povertv income kvd is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutntionatly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  Esimated Rdve Powert mIncm Levd (USS pXr pcpita)--
education. gross enrolment may exeed 100 permt snce some      nd r_r-Rural relative poverty incone klev  is onethird of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prinary-school  averag per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                         denved from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - toral, nmae and fermal-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  E.wthred Peetim  Edow Absolute Po1r  Incme Lewd (pgr'
mry insuc    provides gneraL vocationaL or teache training   cent -erbon nd rwra- frcc t of popultion (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeas of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
amrc courses are generaly exduded.
Vocanonal Enrolmeni (permet of sec o arv,-vocational institu-          Comparauve Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industriaL or other progmms which opeate      Economic Analysis and Projetions Department
independently or as deparmns of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 29 -                                              ANEX I
Page 5 of b pages
Population       155.8  tilUlon  uid-1983)
GNP per Capita; US$560 (1953 estimate)
ThOCNEStA - ECONOM4IC INDICATORS
Amount
(milUon US$ at                              Annual growth rate (2) lb
current prices)                 Actual                                 ProJected
Inicator                            t983 1rier           19-l  t195-az  I153  1984.a  11B.   1986   198!l  198S  L9*Y   lYYo
NATZONAL ACCOUNTS
Uross nenesttc product Ic         76,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    6.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculcure                     20.651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
lnduetty                        29,896        12.5    8.5  -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27,797        11.8    9.6    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Coneueptlon                       62.731        12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Gross itnveatant Id               18.908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CUNS-                  19,50B        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
IMports of CGNS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3.4
Cross nattonal savings            12,273        33.2  -20.0  -11.3    3.7   18 .4   -3.3    1.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
ParIcS
U-Wdeflator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (tp pey US$)                       627    632    661    909  1.026
Stiare of CDP at market prices (Z)
;at current  jrices)                         verage annual increase (2) /b
__   197D   19I5   1 50   19BN   199YO          M190U  19!  15   19P5-MW   1980-US   1415-9Y
Cross domestic product          100    100   lO    100    100    100           3.9        8.4       7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54      47     32     25     26      25        2.7        4.1       3.3        4.1        3.7
Industry                       14     18      34     43     38     38         5.2       12.0       9.8        3.4       4.2
Setvices                       32     35      35     32     3h      37        4.8        9.7       9.5        5.6       5.5
Consumption                    91     89      79     I1     78     76         1.1        8.4       9.2        6.0       4.0
Gross invesbtent /d             8      14     20     21     in      19        4.8       18.3      12.2        2.6       5.4
Exports of CIPS                13      13     23     31     25      24        3.6       Q.2        2.9       -1.1       4.0
Imports of CNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2       22.1      16.0        2.6       2.5
Gross national savings          8       9     17     26     19      21        6.1       23.1      14.2       -0. 3      6.8
As Z of CP
r9bO              1910               1975               1950               1954
PUBLIC nFAfIG  /e
Current revenue                               11.7               10.1               17.4              22.5               21.5
Current expenditures                          14.0               S.4                9.9               12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-l                    -2.3              +1.6               +7.5               +9.7               +8.2
CapEtal expenditure                            n.a.               5.0               11.3              13.0               10.0
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5               3.7                3.3                1.R
1960-70         1970-75          1975-S0          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER  ICNDACTORS
Annual .iW grovth rate (2)                           4.5              7.6              7.1            4.1              4.7
Annual CIIP per capita growth rate (2)               2.4              5.1             4.7             2.0              2.5
Anmnal energy consumption grooth rate (X)            2.7             11.2             11.0             1.4             4.6
IODR                                                 2.2              2.2              3.3            4.8              4.0
Marginal savings rate                                0.10             0.48            0.28           -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                    1.2              2.8             0.84            0.57             0.53
(a Estimates.
7St At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81. and 1981 prices for 1962-90.
7F  At narket prices.
7i Fixed investment; stock changes are included in conus.ption.
7   Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pactfic Region
Hey 31, 1985



Populatton    : 155.8 million (mid-1983)                       - 30 -                                        ANNEX 1
GNP per Captta:  USS560 (1963 estimate)                                                                      Page 6 of 6 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF' PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DE6T
(%ULLions IISS at current prices)
Actual                                 Prolected
8n5O     LVI9    J' 1i      I         1984fa                            -TB5  196  1987  1990
BALANCE OF PAYTENTS/b
1.  irxporta                                    22,885   22.994   18,672   19,817   2n,243  20,769   22,868   26,170   36,235
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                    17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,341  14,253   15,512   17,821   23,R48
(b)  Nono{t                                  5,5BR    4,170    3.928    5,368    5.902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12,387
2.  Inports (includtng net NFS)                -17,589  -22.570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066  -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(t)  Oil sector                             -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,83q   -3,135  -3,801   -4,113   -3,619   -6,540
(b)  Nonoil imorto                         -11,837  -14,561  -15,824  -14,246  -12,805 -13,616  -14,899  -16,462  -22,438
tc)  NFS (net)                              -1,702   -2.602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1,771   -1,945   -2,608
3.  Resource balance                             5,296       424   -3,667       162   -7,632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                             -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528   -4,994   -5.708   -7,287
(a)  Interest publtc debt                     -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,620  -1,598   -1,851   -2,132   -4,487
tb)  Other (net)                            -2.342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,220   -2,976  -2,930   -3,143   -3,576   -4.487
5.  Capital grants                                   76       67       105       95       100     112       119       125      150
6.  Balance an current account                    2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2.439   -2,488
7.  Direct foreign investment                       140      142       311      193       250     250       275       300      375
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                            2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,892
(b)  Amortization                             -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,601
(c)  Net disbursement,i                      1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9.  Oth:!. capital (net)                        -1,488       -31       455    1,975       287    -143      -104     -418       133
l0.  Change in reserves (- increase)             -2,736       988    3,350   -1,619      -373    -400       -672     -966      -309
It.  Net official reserves                        7,342    6,354    3,004    4,623    5.496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,334
Re.4erves In months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                        6.5       4.4      2.1       3.5       4.6     4.6       4.7      4.9       4.5
Nemorandum Ite.
Net toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                     10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,131   11,n03   11,969   13,819
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + :FS                                   9.6       7.4      4.3       6.4       8.2     R.1       7.9      7.8       6.6
E:TERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                              2.551    2.673    4 192    4 965    3,82#
Concessional Loans                               '-5N      I        ; V      -'q        '5w
Bilateral                                     TrJ      71        Wu       3uT       z7W
IDA                                            42        69       78        60       54
Other                                           6         7        8         8        19
Nonconcessional Loans                            1.892    1.880    3,503    4,357    3,277
Bilateral                                                                           _ 1   88   404
1BRD                                            331       314      505       489       772
OXther multitateral                               52       85       126     1t0        163
Private-source                                 1,421    1,310    2,356    3.219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /e            14.971   IS 870   18,515   21-686   22 863
Official-source                            -3U5   5NW    TTr.          ft.'7   T       T
Private-source                              5.465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                              9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13,973
Debt Service
Total servlce payments                         1,759    2,047    2,247    2.551    3,248
Interest                                      821       994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of extports/f                     7.7       %.9     12.n      12.9      16.0
Average Interest Rate on Neu Loans (2)             8.1      R.7      9.2       8.8       9.1
OttLciai-source                                 5.4       7.8      8.8       8.7       A.6
Private-source                                 12.4       9.4      9.9       R.8       9.8
Average :aturity of New Loans (Years)             18.8     15.5      15.2     15.1      15.9
OtfLctal-source                                24.4      20.S     20.6      22.1      20.9
Private-source                                  9.R      11.1      11.1     10.3       9.2
As 2 of det' outstanding at end of 1984
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Haturities due within 5 years                                                                               34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                             7.0
/a  Estimates.
7W  on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7T7 Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to offictal reserves.
7nr Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7ei At end of period.                                                                             East Asia and Paciftc Region
7r  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                   May 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
- 31 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
7hirty-six Loans and forty-three Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,915.90   764.48         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            109.00      -        28.98
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           50.50      -        12.90
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                           68.20      -         9.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00      -        10.39
1696    1979-  Fifth Highway   .                           123.20      -    .  12.18
1707    1979   Traiiskigration II   -                       90.00      -        79.15
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00      -        39.70
1709    1979   Second Water Supply-                    .   35.50       -         7.01
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -      12.00       6.15
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          92.00      -        23.85
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                 -      27.00       6.95
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                          -       37.60       6.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II             -       39.00      19.77
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00       -        45.83
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate aud Smallholders IV           30.00      -        16.75
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                -       30.00       3.60
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 253.00      -        77.73
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              25.00      -        11.41
1904    1981   Uhiversity Development                      45.00       -        35.16
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00      -        12.96
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00      -        12.98
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00      -        22.36
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V          134.00       -        84.49
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development        106.00       -         5.48
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.00       -        72.73
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00       -        56.27
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                15.00       -         9.89
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
- 32 -
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -         78.03
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                      85.00       -         45.86
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00       -         72.56
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00      -         23.16
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                         37.00       -         19.17
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00      -         41.16
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00      -         35.62
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           55.50       -         45.51
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00      -         16.93
2199    1982   Central Ja,a Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50      -          4.03
2214    1983.  Twelfth Power                               300.00       -        236.22
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          138.90      -        136.57
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00      -         25.19
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40      -         20.25
2248    1983   T.ransmigration III                         101.00       -         58.66
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00      -         27.29
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60      -         22.00
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -        147.25
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        60.87
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -        106.99
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       211.47
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        60.32
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -        50.65
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        38.78
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        72.64
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -        213.71
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.25      -         39.07
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.65       -        114.40
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        63.53
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00      -         32.23
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         75.74



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
- 33 -
Loan/                                                        Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation          11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II           131.00      -        131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                            46.00      -         46.00
2542    1985   Second Bealth (Manpower Development) /a    39.00        -         39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation /a                            156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development               147.00      -        147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement /a              43.40      -         43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                  111.00      -        111.00
2578    1985   Trandmigration V /a                         160.00      -        160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training              93.00      -         93.00
' .Total Bank loans and IDA credits        8,084.10   943.52
Less cancellations                        -224.53   -33.44
7,859.57   910.08
* of which has been repaid                   -481.49   -20.54
Total now outstanding                    7,378.08   889.54
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b        7,582.24   889.54
Total undisbursed /c                                          4,108.45
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
-34 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                              Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                            Type of business         -- (USs million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                        Textiles                  2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                Cable                     2.8    0.4     3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                   4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel            Tourism                   9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                    5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles                   2.0    0.3     2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                  Electronics               0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                         Dev. fin. co.              -      0.5    -0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                       Textiles                  2.4    0h6     3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cemert                    5.0    1.5     6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                     -      1.1     1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                    0.4     -      0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                      Textiles                  1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                       Textiles                   0.9     -      0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera               Capital market             4.0    1.2     5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries      Glass dinnerware         11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia       Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing         Capital market            5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   25.0     -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                    143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                        110.8    7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                           32.8   12.3    45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)                1.0             1.0



ANNEX III
- 35 -
INDONESIA
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project                  :   8 months
Agency which proposed the project                  ;   DGWRD
First Bank mission to consider project             :  November 1984
Departure of appraisal mission                     :  April 1985
Completion of negotiations                         :  November 1985
Planned date of effectiveness                      :  June 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The GOI would ensure that:
(a) The consultants contracts are signed for project training and
coordination, which is a condition of effectiveness (para 36);
(b) The contract for the construction of the Dumpil diversion dam is
awarded, the consultant's contract for the Dumpil construction
supervision is signed, and actions are taken to ensure that the EEC
grant is declared effective, as these are conditions of disbursement
for the Dumpil component (paras. 36 and 41);
(c) A coordinating committee for IPEDA-related activities is established
before September 30, 1986 (para. 38);
(d) Irrigated lands in agreed areas of the project provinces are
reclassified and the land tax rates of these areas reasscsed by
September 30. 1990; and beginning April 1, 1990 a similar program to
reclassify the remaining areas of these provinces be carr,ed out
(para. 53); and
(e) Part of the incremental land tax collected as a result of the
reassessment would be allocated to financing of O&M of the main and
secondary irrigation systems in those areas according to plans of
action, to be furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1988, for the
agreed areas and December 31, 1989 for remaining areas respec-
tively. A plan of action to improve collection methods is also to
be provided to the Bank by September 30, 1987 (para. 53).



~LAMPUNG                                                                                                                        M4IIh'~
JAVA           SEA                                             \ v
KD.K..  -                                                                         LJaWA CCCAN   e- INOONES1A
JAKARTA"  ,
Johnta
UlN6alwIeiIn 499..
CENTRAL AND WEST JAVA PROVINCIAL                                                                ;
IRRIATIO  DEELOPENTPROJECT h 1,OhY 45t 
c.wa" NM, Nw kel;a Sd,wi                      M 6.tl750 he              Sei SmIe,@I.                Jh      K A
MI.wti Subpmju
~~ WA
9.91,9 Sew~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dmIe.~~~wllSOt  .1
-    Wibeysh (O1wIdl   MIIJ  WA
INDIAN                                                                    OCEANt
U0 WIwe0mia0 SmhL                                                                                                       
f _ _ = ;
_ B._.   ~    ~     ~    JA=
1         sr                        lvr                       1-                       Xr                        'F~~~~~~N
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7U






