Report No. PIC4282
Project Name                   Philippines-Third Elementary Education...
Project
Region                         East Asia & Pacific
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     PHPA4602
Borrower                       Republic of the Philippines
Implementation Agency          Department of Education, Culture   & Sports
(DECS)
Contact: Mrs. Erlinda Pefianco,
UnderSecretary
Rizal Building 1, University Life Complex
Meralco Avenue, Pasig, Metro Manila,
Philippines
Telephone: (632) 631-84-94
Fax: (632) 631-84-92
Date Initial PID               May 22, 1995
Date This PID Prepared         June , 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       July, 1996
Projected Board Date           November 12, 1996
1.   Country Background.   Following a decade of reform and
restructuring, the economy is well on the path to recovery. Growth has
averaged 6 percent since 1994, and the prospects for sustaining this
trend are better than they have been since the early 80s. Poverty
remains the major development problem, affecting over one-third of
households. It is particularly acute in the rural areas, where two-
thirds of the poor live, and over half of the population is poor. Rural
poverty reflects not only lower average incomes, but also more severe
income disparities than in the country as a whole. The Government has
declared poverty reduction one of its priorities and has formulated a
strategy, the Social Reform Agenda. The SRA aims to redistribute the
benefits of growth and to involve the poor more actively in the
development process. It is a geographically targeted program which
combines measures to expand economic opportunities, provide quality
basic social services to the poor, and promote democratic governance in
depressed rural areas. The proposed operation is the first SRA project
of the Government of the Philippines (GoP).
2.   Sector Background.   One of the most mature in Asia, the Philippine
education system can boast impressive quantitative achievements.
However, educational outcomes vary widely, and national and even
regional averages hide major, poverty-related provincial disparities in
access to quality education and in educational outcomes. Practically
all children enter elementary school, but one-third drop-out. They come
disproportionately from poor households and economically depressed
areas. Urban/rural differences in student and school scores are also
particularly pronounced.



3.   A number of factors contribute to the high drop-out among poor
rural children. First, they are less prepared for school for lack of
early childhood development opportunities and less teachable due to poor
health and nutrition. They also have no choice but to go to public
schools, which offer lower quality education, especially in the rural
areas, because of a pupil-based resource allocation system which places
small rural schools at a disadvantage. Second, although no fees are
charged in public education, one-third of the costs are privately
borne, so that public education is particularly costly to poor
households. Third, poor children often have to work; one-fourth do so
for a living; there is even some child labor, mainly among boys. As a
result, about 1.5 million 7-12 year olds are not in school. By
contrast with most countries, girls are more schooled than boys. On the
other hand, among the poor, children of ethnic minorities, of migrant
workers, of nomadic tribes and boy laborers face particular educational
barriers due to size, culture, isolation, or lifestyle. The incidence
of poverty is 65 percent among household heads with five years or less
of education.
4.   Strategy.   Concerned  with quality and equity , GoP proposes to
focus on schools and classrooms to improve learning achievements and
retention. The core principle is to target resources on poor provinces,
communities and schools to give them the basic inputs they need; to
complement this, in-service training and a grant mechanism would be used
to promote school-based improvement and to pilot innovative approaches
to input management. To support the school focus and improve
sustainability, decision-making and operational responsibility would be
decentralized from the regional to the Divisional (= province level)
Offices or lower, and partnerships would be created with Local
Government Units (LGUs), communities, parents associations, and Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in all aspects of the life of the
school, from resource mobilization to curriculum adaptation. Finally,
to better target resources, decide whether to institutionalize or drop
the pilots, increase accountability and transparency, the Department of
Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) intends to promote a culture of
measurement and information-based decision making. The strategy will be
tested in the most challenging conditions under the project and if
successful, generalized.
5.   Project Objectives and Approach.   The project would:   (a) build the
institutional capacity of DECS and other stakeholders to manage the
change process associated with the underlying strategy; and (b) improve
learning achievements, completion rates and access to quality elementary
education in 26 poor provinces, especially their most disadvantaged
schools and communities. This is a process project characterized by a
flexible design under which detailed planning of interventions would be
done by the stakeholders during implementation. Six pilot provinces have
prepared their own 'Divisional Elementary Education Development Plans'
(DEDPs), following a highly participatory approach. Two more batches of
8 and 12 provinces would be prepared during the first and second years
of implementation, building on the lessons learned at each step.
6.     Project Description.   The project has two investment components.
Under the first objective, it would: (a) create a national structure
for project management and capacity-building, the Project Implementation
-2 -



Support Unit; (b) build capacities in support of policy and decision-
making ; and (c) build capacities in support of decentralized
implementation and effective schools. Under the second objective, it
would: (i) build the capacities of DECS, LGUs, and other stakeholders
in the 26 targeted provinces; and (ii) develop and implement, on a
phased basis, locally-prepared, customized Divisional Elementary
Education Development Plans (DEDPs) in these 26 provinces. With local
variations, the DEDPs are expected to: improve learning through the
provision of textbooks/instructional materials, in-service training
(INSET) and school-based management, and grants from a School
Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIF); raise completion rates
through the provision, rehabilitation and repair of fully equipped small
multigrade schools, community mobilization, and demand-side
interventions; expand access to quality elementary education through the
provision of additional fully equipped school places. Six pilot DEDPs
have been prepared following a highly participatory process involving
educators, LGUs, parents, communities and NGOs. Two more 'batches' of
8 and 12 provinces are to be prepared in PY1 and PY2.
7.   Project Implementation.   Overall responsibility for project
management and implementation would lie with DECS, in close partnership
with LGUs.  The project would implement a process of decentralization
under which DECS Divisional Offices would become the basic operational
units, with the central and regional levels playing a support role. At
the center, policy guidance and interagency coordination would be
provided by a Project Steering Committee (PSC). A TEEP Managing Council
(TMC) would have the authority to approve sub-projects, annual plans and
budgets, and oversee the work of the Project Implementation Support Unit
(PISU). The PISU, consisting of regular DECS staff assisted by national
consultants, would coordinate, support and monitor project
implementation by DECS, and would manage the capacity-building effort.
A partly rotating arrangement would ensure that after five years, PISU
is fully merged into the DECS structure, and the Department has a
critical mass of re-tooled staff. Detailed implementation would be the
responsibility of DECS' Divisional Offices (DOs) reinforced by technical
specialists on a temporary basis. Other noteworthy features include:
(a) delegation of the School Building Program (SBP) to the Municipal
Engineering Offices; (b) the use of various local "democratic oversight"
bodies (provincial and municipal School Boards, School Management
Councils at the school level); (c) the eligibility of NGOs and
communities as contractors in various parts of the project; (d) a
decentralized flow of funds; and (e) a structured process for
systematically learning from experience.
8.   Project Sustainability.   At the macro level, strong growth
projections, GoP's commitment to elementary education and the support of
the central agencies to the SRA and educational decentralization create
a positive environment for project sustainability. Project studies show
that with a modest level of budget targeting the project is sustainable.
9.   Lessons Learned.   Filipinos have a good mastery of civil works
techniques, and even a change in approach as proposed can be easily
absorbed. On the other hand, qualitative objectives and interventions
such as targeting and monitoring and evaluation and require thorough,
practical preparation and more supervision. Stakeholder participation
in project design is essential for effective implementation. Geographic
-3 -



and chronological phasing, in line with absorptive capacity, is
preferable to a wholesale nationwide introduction of reforms. Projects
involving decentralization require a strong, although flexible
institutional framework and early institutionalization. Incentives have
to be sustainable. Other relevant lessons include the importance of:
(a) a free-standing, properly staffed, project management unit; (b)
making good use of consultants; and (c) simplifying disbursement
arrangements.
10. Poverty Category. The project falls under the category 'Program of
Targeted Interventions'. It is geographically targeted, and within the
targeted provinces, phasing would begin with the most disadvantaged
districts. The School Improvement and Innovation Facility would direct
proportionately more grants at marginalized schools. A pilot voucher
scheme would target the poorest households.
11. Program Objective Category. The project would improve access to
quality elementary education in provinces featuring both low incomes and
unfavorable education indicators. Women, who constitute 88 percent of
the teachers, and young children are the prime beneficiaries. The
project also addresses the needs of disadvantaged groups -- especially
children of indigenous, migrant or nomadic communities and boys engaged
in child labor -- and would have an economic fallout through community
school construction. These interventions are cost-effective and,
combined with other social and agricultural investments, are expected to
accelerate poverty reduction in depressed rural areas.
12. Environmental Aspects. The project would have no adverse impact on
the environment. It would comply with national regulations such as the
logging ban regarding the use of construction material. Indigenous
people would benefit: they would be consulted about their perceived
educational needs, during DEDP preparation and implementation, and the
project includes provisions for indigenization of the curriculum and
instructional materials. School-mapping would be participatory, and,
should there be cases when families have to be displaced for school
construction, the Framework for Resettlement defines a legal process to
ensure that the affected groups would be duly compensated.
Historically, such cases have been few and far apart. Environmentally-
oriented proposals would be eligible for school grants under the SIIF.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
September 20, 1996.
-4-



