                                  Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                      Report No:ICR0000204




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD-41080)



                                   ON A

                                   LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$113.4 MILLION

                                  TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                   FOR A

                  THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT



                               January 31, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 01/12/2007 )
                              Currency Unit = PhP
                                    PhP 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                   US$ 1.00 = PhP 49



                                       Fiscal Year
                                     July 1 - June 30




                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACTF      Adopt-A-Child Trust Fund                  M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
AIP       Annual Implementation Plan                MIS      Management Information System

ARMM      Autonomous Region in Muslim                        Maintenance and Other Operating
          Mindanao                                  MOOE     Expenditures
BEE       Bureau of Elementary Education            MPS      Mean Percentage Score

BEIS      Basic Education Information
          System                                    NAT      National Achievement Test

BESRA     Basic Education Sector Reform
          Agenda                                    NCR      National Capital Region

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy               NEAP     National Educators Academy of the
                                                             Philippines

CPISU     Central Project Implementation
          Support Unit                              NEAT     National Elementary Assessment Test

DBM       Department of Budget and
          Management                                NER      Net Enrollment Ratio

DDU       Depressed, Disadvantaged, and
          Underserved                               NGOs     Non-government Organizations

DECS      Department of Education, Culture                   National Program Support for Basic
          and Sports                                NPSBE    Education

DEDP      Division Elementary Education
          Development Plan                          NSBA     National Sample-Based Assessment

DepED     Department of Education                   NW-DSF   National Window Demand-Side
                                                             Financing

DPISU     Division Project Implementation                    National Window Supply-Side
          Support Unit                              NW-SSF   Financing

EMIS      Education Management Information
          System                                    OECF     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund

          Effective Instructional Leadership
EFILERMAT and Educational Resource                  PAD      Project Appraisal Document
          Management Training
ELS       Elementary Leader School                  PCR      Project Completion Report
GOP       Government of the Philippines             PhP      Philippine Peso

IBRD      International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development            SAR      Staff Appraisal Report

ICR       Implementation Completion Report          SBM      School-Based Management

IMCS    Instructional Materials Council
        Secretariat                         SBPF        School-Based Procurement of Furniture

INSET   In Service Training                 SEMP        Social Expenditure Management Project

ISR     Implementation Status Report        SIIF        School Improvement and Innovation
                                                        Facility

JBIC    Japan Bank for International
        Cooperation                         SIP         School Improvement Plan

LAN     Local Area Network                  SS          Satellite School
LGU     Local Government Unit               TEEP        Third Elementary Education Project

MDFO    Municipal Development Fund
        Office                              USD         United States Dollar




                   Vice President:       James W. Adams (EAPVP)
                Country Director:        Joachim von Amsberg (EACPF)
                 Sector Manager:         Christopher J. Thomas (EASHD)
           Project Team Leader:          Dingyong Hou (EASHD)
              ICR Team Leader:           Lynnette Dela Cruz Perez (EASHD)

                                              PHILIPPINES
               THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT



                                                CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 31
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 34
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 55
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 88
 Annex 10. Additional Annex........................................................................................ 89
 10.1 Project Outcomes Indicators, by Division (Baseline to 2005).............................. 89
 10.2 Endnotes................................................................................................................ 90


MAP IBRD 27835R

A. Basic Information

                                                                    THIRD
Country:                Philippines           Project Name:         ELEMENTARY
                                                                    EDUCATION
Project ID:             P004602               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-41080
ICR Date:               03/30/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF THE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                        USD 113.4M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 83.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/15/1995    Effectiveness:       07/02/1997         07/02/1997
Appraisal:             07/30/1996    Restructuring(s):                       08/24/2001
Approval:              11/26/1996    Mid-term Review:                        03/15/2001
                                     Closing:             06/30/2004         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               6                   6
Other social services                                           4                   4
Primary education                                              66                 66
Sub-national government administration                          7                  7
Tertiary education                                             17                 17


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary          Primary
Education for all                                             Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary           Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                               Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Country Director:         Joachim von Amsberg              Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            Sven Burmester
Project Team Leader:      Dingyong Hou                     Francoise Delannoy
ICR Team Leader:          Lynnette Dela Cruz Perez
ICR Primary Author:       Nidhi Khattri




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project were to: (1) build institutional capacity of the Department
of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS), which became the Department of Education
(DepED) in August 2001, to manage the change process associated with the project; and
(2) improve learning achievement, completion rate, and access to quality elementary
education in 20 provinces included in the Social Reform Agenda provinces, and six
provinces identified by the Presidential Commission to Fight Poverty.            The key
outcome/impact indicators were as follows:
 ·      Qualitative monitoring of the degree to which policy decisions reflected project-
funded research; the gap between planned and actual sub-sectoral expenditures;
institutionalization of in-service training; and the extent to which central/local cost-
sharing operated as a targeting mechanism.
 ·      Achievement: students' scores in English, mathematics, and science. The overall
baseline estimate for learning achievement was 65 percent (weighted average of the MPS
of the targeted provinces/divisions) on the 1995 NEAT for mathematics in grade six. The
MPS was expected to increase by 20 percentage points.
 ·      Completion: completion rate through grade six. The mean baseline completion
rate was 55 percent. It was expected to improve by 8.5 to 16.5 percentage points to 63.5
to 71.5 percent.
 ·      Access: net enrollment ratio (NER). The SAR noted no target improvement for
NER, although the GOP Project Completion Report (PCR) states a target of 91-95
percent. The baseline was noted as 87 percent in 1995 for the whole country, with 1.2
million children out of school, mostly in rural areas. The projected flow of students in
the 26 provinces was expected to increase from 1,807,270 in 1994-95 to 2,184,199 in
2002-03.
 ·      School distance from home. Percentage of children living less than one hour's
walk from school. Baseline estimates ranged from 13 percent of grade 1 children living
more than one hour's walk from school to 21 percent of grade 6 children. The target was
set at 95 percent of 6-12 year olds living less than one hour's walk from school.
 ·      Stakeholder involvement. The extent to which stakeholders felt that they were
consulted during project preparation and implementation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project objectives were not revised, although the project was redesigned (corrective
restructuring) after the mid-term review completed in 2001.               The number of
divisions/provinces included was reduced to 22, which later increased to 23 (in 2004), as
Zamboanga Sibugay (originally part of Zamboanga del Sur) was recognized as a separate
division. After the project components were revised, the indicators on achievement,
completion, and enrollment were retained, and some new baselines and targets were
specified at a later stage (see Table 1 in section 3.2).




                                              iii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target         Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from            Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval              Target       Completion or
                                               documents)              Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Improved student learning achievements measured by test scores, participation
               and completion rates.
Value          <50 MPS (Date achieved: +20 percentage                             59-65 MPS (NAT)
quantitative or                                                                   (Date achieved:
Qualitative)   1993-1995)                   points                                2005)
Date achieved 12/31/1995                    11/27/1996                            12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       Please see analysis in section 8.2
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Improved student learning achievements measured by test scores, participation
               and completion rates.

               Participation rate: 72-97                                          Participation rate:
Value                                                                             79.4 percent;
quantitative orCompletion rate: 55                                                Completion rate:
Qualitative)   percent (Date achieved:
               1996)                                                              61.4 percent (Date
                                                                                  achieved: 2005)
Date achieved 12/31/1996                                                          12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       The calculation for NER was based on 7-12 age group prior to 2002-03 but on 6-

achievement)   11 age group subsequently. Please see analysis and explanations in section 8.2.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target         Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                 approval              Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)         Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Improve DepEd capacity through more information based decision-making and
               provide grants for school based innovation.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved

Comments       The project has succeeded in enhancing the capacity of DepED and

(incl. %       administrative staff at all levels, but it is difficult to say by how much. The

achievement)   project supported 3,069 SIIF grants, which empowered schools to devise specific
               solutions to their problems.
Indicator 2 :  None noted
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved



                                                 iv

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                     IP                Disbursements
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     09/16/1997      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/03/1997      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/15/1998      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      3.00
  4     01/05/1999      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      3.05
  5     06/30/1999     Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                     3.07
  6     12/29/1999     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                      3.27
  7     06/02/2000     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                      4.17
  8     11/22/2000     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                      9.67
  9     11/27/2000     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                      9.67
  10    06/07/2001      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    12.13
  11    12/06/2001      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    13.66
  12    03/12/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    19.99
  13    09/19/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    29.96
  14    03/17/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    35.48
  15    09/22/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    48.06
  16    02/23/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    55.10
  17    10/20/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    67.44
  18    06/07/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    73.50
  19    05/15/2006      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    82.00



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at  Amount

 Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                Restructuring
                PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP    in USD
                                           millions
                                                       Reasons for restructuring:
                                                       1)      overly optimistic
                                                       assumptions that education
                                                       management can rapidly be

   08/24/2001       N         S      S        13.23    devolved to Local Government
                                                       Units (LGUs);
                                                       2)      inordinate pressure
                                                       exerted on LGUs to provide
                                                       25% equity;
                                                       3)      complexity of


                                        v

                       ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring  Board   Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
  Date(s)     Approved               Restructuring
             PDO Change                                 Key Changes Made
                        DO     IP      in USD
                                       millions
                                                  management structure; and
                                                  4)      ambitiousness of
                                                  project.

                                                  Key changes made:

                                                  1)      reorganization of
                                                  project management and
                                                  implementation structure;
                                                  2)      reduction in equity
                                                  share of LGUs from 25% to
                                                  10%;
                                                  3)      reduction of
                                                  administrative costs;
                                                  4)      shift to DepEd-led
                                                  school building program
                                                  directly involving school
                                                  principals/heads;
                                                  5)      resetting of school
                                                  building program targets; and
                                                  6)      introduction of
                                                  Elementary Leader Schools as
                                                  core priorities of project inputs.




                                    vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.

1.1 Context at Appraisal.
At appraisal, the objectives of the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) were aligned
with the goals of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; dated February 15, 1996) as
well as with the Philippine government's education sector strategy. A key goal of the 1996
CAS was to fight poverty through the provision of basic services to the poor. The CAS
aimed to contribute to the Government of the Philippines (GOP) strategy to address inequities
overall and in the education subsector through improved targeting of funding, cost-sharing
with local government, and decentralizing some aspects of education. The 26 provinces
selected for the project contained 20 percent of the country's school-age population (6-12
year olds) and 24 percent of the country's poor, but accounted for only 16.7 percent of the
education resources. Countrywide data indicated a low elementary completion rate (67
percent for public schools in 1995; average of 55 percent in target provinces) (Staff Appraisal
Report [SAR], RN 15888-PH) and less than desired student achievement ­ less than 50 mean
percentage score (MPS) on the 1993-1996 National Elementary Achievement Tests (NEAT;
GOP Project Completion Report), which were based on grade six curriculum prevalent at the
time.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The objectives of the project were to: (1) build institutional capacity of the Department of
Education, Culture and Sports (DECS), which became the Department of Education
(DepED) in August 2001, to manage the change process associated with the project; and (2)
improve learning achievement, completion rate, and access to quality elementary education
in 20 provinces included in the Social Reform Agenda provinces, and six provinces identified
by the Presidential Commission to Fight Poverty. The key outcome/impact indicators were
as follows:1

    · Qualitative monitoring of the degree to which policy decisions reflected project-
        funded research; the gap between planned and actual sub-sectoral expenditures;
        institutionalization of in-service training; and the extent to which central/local cost-
        sharing operated as a targeting mechanism.

    · Achievement: students' scores in English, mathematics, and science.          The overall
        baseline estimate for learning achievement was 65 percent (weighted average of the
        MPS of the targeted provinces/divisions) on the 1995 NEAT for mathematics in grade
        six. The MPS was expected to increase by 20 percentage points.

    · Completion: completion rate through grade six. The mean baseline completion rate
        was 55 percent. It was expected to improve by 8.5 to 16.5 percentage points to 63.5
        to 71.5 percent.

    · Access: net enrollment ratio (NER). The SAR noted no target improvement for NER,



                                              1

        although the GOP Project Completion Report (PCR) states a target of 91-95 percent.
        The baseline was noted as 87 percent in 1995 for the whole country, with 1.2 million
        children out of school, mostly in rural areas. The projected flow of students in the 26
        provinces was expected to increase from 1,807,270 in 1994-95 to 2,184,199 in 2002-
        03.

    · School distance from home. Percentage of children living less than one hour's walk
        from school. Baseline estimates ranged from 13 percent of grade 1 children living
        more than one hour's walk from school to 21 percent of grade 6 children. The target
        was set at 95 percent of 6-12 year olds living less than one hour's walk from school.

    · Stakeholder involvement.        The extent to which stakeholders felt that they were
        consulted during project preparation and implementation.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The project objectives were not revised, although the project was redesigned (corrective
restructuring) after the mid-term review completed in 2001.                  The number of
divisions/provinces included was reduced to 22, which later increased to 23 (in 2004), as
Zamboanga Sibugay (originally part of Zamboanga del Sur) was recognized as a separate
division.    After the project components were revised, the indicators on achievement,
completion, and enrollment were retained, and some new baselines and targets were specified
at a later stage (see Table 1 in section 3.2).


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main project beneficiaries were the elementary school children residing in poor rural
areas of the 23 project divisions. The secondary beneficiary was the Philippines education
system (DepED and the division education offices), whose institutional capacity to provide
improved services was expected to be enhanced as a result of designing, implementing, and
directly benefiting from the capacity development inputs of the project.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The original design included two main components, each of which comprised several
subcomponents. The dollar amounts indicated for each component included Bank, GOP, and
the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) contributions (excluding contingency
allowances).

Component 1: Capacity building at the central and regional levels (US$28.0 million). This
component focused on establishing a national management structure to help DECS manage
the project and build capacity at the local level.           The component comprised three
subcomponents: (a) national management structure (US$6.7 million); (b) support to policy



                                              2

and decision-making (US$9.6 million); and (c) support for decentralized management
(US$11.7 million).

Component 2: Elementary education improvement in 26 provinces (US$453.7 million). The
purpose of this component was to strengthen the capacity of the DECS divisional offices, the
Local Government Units (LGUs), Parent-Teacher Associations, Teacher Education Institutes,
non-Government Organizations, and communities to support the project and to implement
the Divisional Elementary Education Development Plans (DEDP). DEDPs were division-
level projects prepared with stakeholder inputs and with detailed annual workplans and
budgets. The component comprised two subcomponents: (a) capacity building for divisional
and provincial management (US$32.5 million); and (b) funding of the divisional elementary
education development plans (US$421.2 million).

The IBRD loan of US$113.4 million was to finance 19.9 percent of the total project costs.
The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF), later JBIC, loan of US$104.8 million
financed 18.4 percent of the costs. The remaining was to be financed by the National
Government and the LGU. The loan was reduced to about US$93 million at mid-term
review and another US$10 million to about US$83 million in the last year of implementation,
as most activities were expected to be completed and the DepED's proposal to use the US$10
million from the unallocated category was not approved by the Investment Coordinating
Committee of the National Economic and Development Authority of the Philippines.

The project was initially budgeted at US$569 million (total amount from all sources of
funding, including contingencies), but the final expenditure (June 30, 2006) amounted to
US$221 million due to three reasons: the cancellation of approximately US$30 million from
the Bank; devaluation of the PhP from about PhP26 in 1997 per United States Dollar (USD)
to about PhP52 at project completion in 2006; and much lower contributions by GOP than
was originally estimated in SAR in USD terms.    2



The first cancellation of US$20 million was made at the mid-term restructuring for the
reduced scope of the project to target a small number of schools for the school building
program. The last cancellation of about US$9.8 million was requested during the last year of
implementation as a result of the government's decision to maintain the Philippine PESO cap
on the project. The appraised counterpart funding from the government was also adjusted
due to severe fiscal constraints. The IBRD loan financing ratio was adjusted accordingly to
compensate for the reduced counterpart contributions.

The project's key objectives and eventual outcomes were however not affected due
to reduced funding from the project as a result of appropriate prioritization and adjustment
and other cost-savings, as discussed in the sections below.


1.6 Revised Components

The project components were revised based upon the findings of a mid-term review,
completed in early 2001.          The revised components and their management and
implementation procedures were agreed upon between the GOP and the Bank in May 2001.


                                             3

The revised project components were as follows:
Component 1: Education development (US$83.53 million).               This component comprised
activities in three broad areas:
    1. In-service training of education staff (INSET), the School Improvement and
        Innovation Facility (SIIF), a grant facility for funding specific school improvement
        initiatives), and provision of textbooks and supplementary materials, school kits, and
        equipment and furniture. School-based management (SBM) was later added to this
        area. These elements of the component were to be provided to a cluster of "leader"
        and "satellite" schools.    Leader schools were to receive resources and services
        directly first, which they were to share with their satellite schools.
    2. Teacher and school manager training (INSET), school kits, textbooks and
        supplemental materials, and SIIF grants, to be provided to other schools (i.e., schools
        not in the cluster of "leader" and "satellite" schools) in the division.
    3.   Enhancing DECS' management capacity through developing and implementing
        student assessment, establishing the Educational Management Information System
        (EMIS), policy research, school mapping, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

Component 2: Civil works (US$136.3 million). This component included the DECS-led
school building program and provision of furniture and new and repaired classrooms for all
schools ("cluster" and other), local participation in the schools building program through the
LGUs, and construction of DepED division offices, the Central Project Implementation
Support Unit (CPISU) office, and the National Educators Academy of the Philippines
(NEAP) training center. Although the mid-term review project redesign mentioned that the
project would not involve equity from LGUs and that it would require no Municipal
Development Fund Office (MDFO) participation (pg. 7), the project ultimately required 10
percent of LGU equity for the schools building program.

Component 3: Finance and administration (US$17.74 million). This component involved
procurement, project management, and financial management for all schools and capacity
building for the implementation of these aspects of the component. It also included the
development of the M&E system and the EMIS.

The project management was changed to designate the DepED secretary as the Project
Director, to be assisted by a Deputy Project Director. The Secretary had played an advisory
role in the earlier management structure, and the directorship was relegated to a lower level.
The mid-term review also suggested a revision of the baseline and target figures for
monitoring project performance (see Table 1, section 3.2).

The SAP, however, did not reflect the redistribution and accounting of project funds along
the lines of the new components. Annex 3 reflects the original accounting. Furthermore, it
should also be noted that the figures in Annex 3 are based on PhP converted to USD, based
on the exchange rate of approximately PhP52 to one USD.


1.7 Other significant changes




                                              4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project objectives were strategic, and the technical components were sound.
However, analysis of the factors on which the policy, institutional, and implementation
aspects of the project were based was not as robust as would be indicated from prior
lessons. The project objectives and design were grounded in the experience of 11
previous projects in the Philippines since 1965.          The 1981 Sector Program for
Decentralized Elementary Education (Ln. 2030-PH) provided lessons for using a phased
approach to project implementation (i.e., piloting first and then using lessons learned for
broadening the experience) and the 1991 Second Elementary Education Project (Ln.
3244-PH) informed project staffing and disbursement agreements. However, despite
earlier lessons regarding the lack of absorptive capacity at the local level, the project took
a highly decentralized (albeit phased) approach and faced implementation issues almost
immediately upon becoming active.

The SAR noted the risk of taking a decentralized approach, but it did not anticipate
plausible risk scenarios and plan adequate measures for mitigating such potential risks.
The lack of local human capacity was unanticipated (i.e., development of education plans
and skills/knowledge required for undertaking such efforts), as was the LGUs'
unwillingness/inability to provide the needed equity (25 percent) for the civil works
program. Although the SAR mentioned possible local political pressures that could
interfere with the school building program, it did not adequately address the potential
problems with LGU financing, as analysis had indicated that greater financial transfers
were expected to flow to the local governments.

This situation was exacerbated by a project management structure that was complex and
lacking in adequate controls and oversight. Key roles were delegated to consultants
without a rigorous system for monitoring their performance, holding them accountable for
results, and integrating the inputs into a comprehensive, coordinated framework.


2.2 Implementation

The project components were revised based upon the findings of the mid-term review
completed in 2000. The review specifically noted that only 10 percent of the loan funds
had been spent, of which half were for consulting fees. In terms of physical
accomplishments, only two percent of the civil works had been completed in the span of
2.5 years (and only five percent of target). The review findings noted several issues,
including:
     Lack of coordination and optimization of synergies among the education
     subcomponents (e.g., INSET and student assessment);
     A large technical assistance contract for project implementation with no
     accountability for results [with sub-contractors working in silos and without
     adequate qualifications and skills];
     Lack of proper oversight for implementation and coordination with the district and



                                             5

    division levels;
    Poor textbooks and instructional materials distribution planning which resulted in
    multiple titles within the same classroom;
    Lack of strategic use of INSET for catalyzing reform due to insufficient emphasis
    on pedagogy; reliance on top-down planning rather than bottom-up needs
    assessments; and lack of use of existing master teachers;
    Lack of school-level involvement in the selection of appropriate instructional
    materials and kits to meet their needs; and
    Delays in contracting due in part to complex MDFO procedures.

About US$20M of the loan was cancelled (about 18 percent), and the project components
and their management and implementation procedures were revised in May 2001. The
main post-review strategic change was to develop a more refined phased approach to the
project by designating clusters of Elementary Leader Schools (ELS) and Satellite Schools
(SS).

After project redesign, the implementation proceeded more smoothly and rapidly than
before.   A number of factors can be credited with this turnaround in project
implementation and the project's eventual outcomes. These include:

    The availability of a school mapping exercise, completed in 1998, that provided a
    credible basis for prioritizing civil works and furniture inputs, especially after the
    other project components were revised;
    A strategic, phased approach to the project by designating clusters of ELS and SS
    schools and piloting with some clusters first to experiment and demonstrate
    successes;
    A simpler project management structure, staffed with organic (regular) DepED staff
    in key positions and experts in specific areas of the project. Organic staff from the
    different units of the DepEd          joined the project office for developmental
    assignments and eventually returned to their units with lessons for institutional
    change;
    Streamlined processes and manuals for project components, including standardized
    architectural designs for civil works;
    Capacity building and provision of intensive support through monitoring,
    supervision, training, manuals, and other on-demand support mechanisms;
    Conscious absorption of gains and synergies from experiences in other foreign-
    assisted projects, such as Asian Development Bank's study on SBM, the clustering
    approach based on AusAID's Project in Basic Education, and math and science
    teacher training, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency;
    Gradual decentralization of school-based education planning, which resulted in
    desired community involvement and transparency with respect to planning and
    school performance;
    Institution of quality assurance mechanisms in procurement and distribution of
    project materials and goods;
    The project's emphasis on close monitoring and supervision, and the dedication of
    project management staff at all levels;



                                             6

     Reforms in procurement (such as decentralizing of bidding, transparency,
     streamlined procurement processes, accountability and public monitoring) and
     involvement of principals in school construction led to efficiency gains, lower cost
     better quality of output improved procurement process, improved capacity at the
     national level, and strengthened local management; and
     A concerted effort on the part of Bank staff to be responsive to implementation
     issues and to provide advice.

A negative factor was the frequent changes in top leadership at DepED, which witnessed
the appointment of seven secretaries of Education with concomitant discontinuity of
high-level management oversight and support, although one undersecretary remained
throughout the whole project duration. However, this situation was countered by a strong
and dedicated project team.      On the Bank side, the project was managed by four
successive task managers, which impeded continuity. On the other hand, the Bank team
became successively more effective over time.

Other negative factors include the initial delays in the release of project funds and the
reassignment of project personnel who were familiar with the project to other positions,
even though new personnel were not available or ready to assume responsibility.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The project M&E for the revised components is simple and well designed.
The key performance indicators for outcomes (achievement, completion, and enrollment)
are based on Department of Education's Basic Education Information System (BEIS),
which was rolled out in 2002-2003 and includes data on enrollment, completion, and can
be merged with student achievement (for the nationwide student achievement tests). The
project also developed additional data-collection forms and an internet-based system for
collecting project-specific data, which were cascaded down to the school-level (although
the forms could be further simplified and streamlined). This Management Information
System (MIS), however, is not yet fully operational at the division and school levels.

M&E implementation: The M&E system is computerized at the Center and is expected to
become fully web-based, although not all divisions have access to the internet yet. The
project relied on paper-based or CD-based reports on project inputs (e.g., number of
pieces of furniture, number of training events) and outputs (e.g., number of school-based
improvement plans completed).       The outcome measures were based on the school
administrative data that were reported to the divisions and to the Center. The project
administrative data were reported on a monthly basis. The challenge now is to integrate
all data into the regular DepED's BEIS system. Another challenge is to revise the
DepED's national assessment framework, develop and standardize achievement tests, and
train teachers and principals in the use of the information. This subcomponent was to
have been completed under the project, but was not due to a number of delays in
launching the initiative.

M&E Utilization: The data generated from the project M&E system and the central BEIS


                                            7

system have been used well to inform school-based planning and to provide inputs, such
as training, especially in the latter half of the project. The introduction of SBM has
created awareness of the importance of the use of data for planning, monitoring, and
evaluation at all levels of the education system. The Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) team saw evidence of various education indicators (e.g., completion and dropout
rates) being calculated at the school-level as well to inform school-based planning and
decision-making, although the understanding of these indicators varied significantly
across schools. (The school-level indicators are not used for administrative purposes;
schools provide raw data to the divisions.)

However, the data on NER require a thorough review for policy and planning purposes.
With the implementation of the BEIS in 2002-03, NER was computed on the basis of the
6-11 age cohort (rather than the age 7-12 age group, as was previously the case). End-of-
project NER on the basis of the new population group shows a decline from 2002-2003
for both TEEP and for the country as a whole, although the decline is three percentage
points less for TEEP than it was nationwide (section 3.2 provides specific numbers).
Possible causes of decrease could be a lower-than-expected growth in this age cohort,
which was projected to increase by two percent overall, based on the relatively recent
2000 census data (although the population in the TEEP divisions shows a projected
increase of a much steeper five percent between 2002-03 and 2004-05) as well as less-
than-desired enrollment of the age 6-11 cohort (see section 3.2). Furthermore, the NER
figures are slightly different, depending on the document reviewed. The GOP PCR shows
82 percent NER for 2002-03 (excluding Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao -
ARMM)3, whereas the new Bank-supported project, National Program Support for Basic
Education (NPSBE; RN 35445-PH), shows 86 percent for the same year.4 A possible
reason for this difference could be the time the data were obtained; the NPSBE data were
obtained in 2005, whereas the GOP PCR data were obtained in 2006, and, therefore,
includes later submissions of data from some divisions.

The data on the completion rate appears to be robust and is being used in conjunction with
other information to assess the reasons why children do not complete school.

Finally, the student achievement indicators are based on the National Sample Based
Assessments (NSBA), which were conducted as part of the project in 2002-2003 and
2004-2005, and the National Achievement Tests (NAT), which were conducted
nationwide in 2003, 2004, and 2005.5 The NSBA data have been analyzed extensively to
identify the least-learned skills to inform pedagogy, subject focus, and school/division
interventions to improve learning outcomes. These data have also been used for assessing
project outcomes and for providing feedback to the participant schools on their
performance. However, the 2003 and 2005 NSBA data are not strictly comparable as the
competency frameworks utilized for developing the tests were not the same, although
cross-sectional comparisons are valid.

The NAT was administered to the same cohort of students between 2003 and 2005
(successively in grades four, five, and six). However, the tests were administered by the
class teachers themselves, possibly yielding biased results. Data from the 2005-2006



                                              8

NAT will be more robust, as the test was administered by independent examiners. (Many
divisions and districts have their own assessments as well, which are used for school-
based planning, although the value-added of these assessments needs to be established.)

The project has a rich database of quantitative information on school inputs, outputs, and
quality. These data have the potential to be systematically mined to answer questions
related to the impact of various types of inputs and interventions (e.g., SBM) on NER,
completion rate and student achievement as well as about the individual cost-
effectiveness of such inputs and processes. Such analyses would also highlight whether
the benefits were equally distributed across the various types of schools, especially to
those located in depressed, disadvantaged, and underserved (DDU) areas. For example,
disaggregation by type of school shows that relatively fewer multigrade schools benefited
from the school building program inputs as compared to monograde schools (41 versus 83
percent, respectively) and SIIF grants (17 and 47 percent, respectively), although this
distribution may reflect the project's strategic choices (e.g., to create demonstration effects
with better performing schools; to strengthen schools serving larger populations, and so
forth). Such systematic analyses have not yet been undertaken, although several reports
(e.g., the JBIC review, the technical report on NSBA 2005) have provided useful analyses
using student achievement and other project input data at an aggregate level. Thus, the
M&E system can be further strengthened through a more in-depth use of the achievement
data available to answer policy-related questions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project encompassed no significant safeguard issues. No adverse environmental
impact was associated with the construction and rehabilitation of school buildings. The
project was designed to respond to the education needs of schools located in DDU areas,
including those with indigenous populations. The project interventions included, for
example, resources for developing pedagogies and curriculum materials based on local
cultures.

The project complied with the fiduciary requirements of the Bank. Procurement followed
the guidelines of the co-financiers, WB and JBIC, and the new Government Procurement
Reform Act and its Implementing Rules and Regulations. Contract irregularities and
issues were few, involving for example, faulty school design and construction or
falsification of commercial documents. In these cases civil or criminal cases were duly
filed, and only one remaining case is pending resolution.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The reforms introduced under the current project are likely to be carried forward under
DepED's Basic Education Sector Reform Agenda (BESRA) and with support from the
Bank.

TEEP's decentralization thrust was consonant with the Governance of Basic Education
Act of 2001 (RA 9155), which was progressively refined into the "Schools First"


                                               9

initiative and embodied in policy actions in BESRA. BESRA emphasizes school-based
planning, community involvement, and decentralization of some aspects of education,
including localization of aspects of the curriculum and providing grants to finance school
innovative school improvement activities (similar to TEEP's SIIF).

TEEP has provided several relevant lessons regarding decentralization: locally managed
school construction; mobilization of community stakeholders to participate in school
improvement planning, monitoring, and use of funds at the school level; and involvement
of civil society in procurement, textbook inspection and delivery.            Division-level
procurement inspectorates are also a good example for setting up controls in local
procurement and distribution systems. The Instructional Materials Council Secretariat
(IMCS) provides a model of quality control in the development of new educational
materials.

Thus, the project's successful experience with a phased approach to school-based
management, as well as its other initiatives (e.g., SIIF, teacher training, principal-led
school building program, etc.), have informed the formulation of BESRA. In the last year
of the project, TEEP sponsored several workshops, including a Department-wide
orientation involving school division superintendents and regional officers regarding
SBM, and supported the replication of SBM in contiguous school divisions. The TEEP
SBM manual has served as a basis for the development of the DepEd SBM framework,
which will guide the phased expansion of SBM in all public elementary and secondary
schools of the country. In addition, DepED's memo 252, issued in July 2006, instructs the
Physical Facilities and Schools Engineering Division to use the principal-led school
building modality for building schools.

Budget projections based on several scenarios have revealed financing gaps for taking the
education reforms forward.6 The financing gap posed a challenge for how deeply the
reform agenda could be implemented and institutionalized. The Bank's recently approved
NPSBE project, which supports the government's reform program over a five-year period
(2006-2010), is designed to serve two purposes: (a) to assist with fiscal reform in the short
run; and (b) to support the development of longer-term institutional capacity. It is a
budget support operation, which expands the resource base and finances some of the
priority reform items that were piloted and implemented in TEEP. In addition, it aims to
ensure savings through monitoring and management of reforms and their implementation.
These reforms and items include the aforementioned SBM; greater involvement of local
governments in school improvement planning, resource mobilization and monitoring; and
more systemic support from private sector to address the technical and resource needs
especially at the school-level. The project also addresses issues of quality through support
for development and application of teacher competency standards, and the development
and implementation of standards for key learning areas and school physical inputs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

At the time of this writing, the project objectives and implementation processes continue to


                                            10

be highly relevant to the Bank's strategy in the Philippines. The 2006-2008 CAS (RN 3214-
PH) outlines priorities in social inclusion, including greater voice and access for the poor and
disadvantaged groups in the planning and delivery of education and other basic services at
the local level. A low rate of elementary education completion and lower than desired
student achievement continue to be of concern (see Table 1 in section 3.2), and the
decentralization mechanism has been designed for engaging local communities as a method
for improving the efficiency and quality of education. The nationwide completion rate is 63
percent (2004-05), and the composite achievement data (across all subjects tested) for grade
six (2004-05) is below the desired target of 75 MPS.

Other education-related challenges noted by the government include:
    · Centrally regulated decision-making with no clear accountability;
    · Inefficiencies in resource management;
    · Schools' lack of ability to respond flexibly to local needs;
    · Shortage of educational materials in disadvantaged areas and classrooms; and
    · Less-than-desired quality of the teaching force.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has achieved its development objectives. The three indicators with respect to
achieving the project objectives include NER, completion rate for elementary education
(grade six), and student achievement. Data with respect to these indicators show that the
project has been successful in supporting the improvement of the quality of education, it has
positively influenced the elementary completion rate, which improved from baseline,
although it falls short of target, but its contribution to increasing the elementary NER is
unclear, due to uncertainty about the accuracy of the elementary age population data and the
NER statistic itself. However, all changes in these indicators are favorable in comparison to
the data for the country as a whole at the time of project completion. In light of the results on
student achievement, and the status of the completion rate and NER indicators as compared
with the data for the country as a whole, the project merits a rating of satisfactory for the
achievement of its objectives.      Table 1 below exhibits the baselines, targets, and the
achievement by each indicator.




                                              11

12

  Table 1: Project achievement indicators, by baseline, target, and latest status
Indicator        Baseline      Target       2002-2003      Project        Change
                                                           Status         (2003 to
                                                           2004-2005      2005)

Net Enrollment Ratio (NER)
NER TEEP         72-97         91-95        83.3 percent 79.4             -3.9
                 percent       percent      (6-11 year     percent        percentage
                 (7-12 year    (set post    olds)          (6-11 year     points
                 olds)         mid-term                    olds)
                 (division     review)
                 range)
                 (1996)
*NER Country     87 percent                 82.9 percent 76.1             -6.8
(excluding       (7-12 year                 (6-11 year     percent        percentage
ARMM)            olds)                      olds)          (6-11 year     points
                 (1996)                                    olds)
Completion Rate
Completion       55 percent    64 to 72     60.2 percent 61.4             1.2
TEEP             (division     percent                     percent        percentage
                 average)      (from                                      points.
                 (1996)        SAR);                                      1995-2005
                               58 to 78                                   change is 6.4
                               percent (set                               percentage
                               post mid-                                  points
                               term
                               review)
*Completion       64 percent                64.8 percent 63.3             -1.6
Country          (1996)                                    percent        percentage
(excluding                                                                points
ARMM)
Achievement
          NEAT <50 MPS                      Test
                 (1993-96)                  Dropped
   NAT ­ TEEP                               46 MPS ­       65 MPS ­
            ELS                             Grade 4        Grade 6
    NAT ­TEEP                               45 MPS ­       59 MPS ­
        non-ELS                             Grade 4        Grade 6
     NAT ­ non-                             44 MPS ­       60 MPS ­
           TEEP                             Grade 4        Grade 6
      (non-poor
       divisions)
 NSBA (overall) 39.2 MPS       40-75 MPS 42.7 MPS          45.8 MPS       3.1
         ­ TEEP (1999)         (set post-   (Grades        (Grades        percentage
                               mid-term     2,4,6)         2,4,6)         points (not
                               review)                                    sig.)7


                                       13

  NSBA (overall)- 42.5 MPS                         42.4 MPS      39.9 MPS      -2.5
         nonTEEP (1999)                            (Grades       (Grades       percentage
                                                   2,4,6)        2,4,6)        points (not
                                                                               sig.)
 NSBA TEEP versus nonTEEP Achievement Difference, 2005: 5.9 percentage points,
 significant, p<.05

Note: the enrollment and completion indicators are based on data from GOP's Unified Data
Gathering System. NER and completion rate for the country exclude the ARMM Region.
The ARMM has a separate DepEd, which is responsible for collecting and submitting data to
DepED.
NER: The baseline information is from SAR; target information is from GOP PCR.
Completion: The baseline information is from SAR; target information is from GOP PCR.
NEAT: Information is from GOP PCR.
NSBA: Information is from the NSBA 2005 technical report.
NAT: Information is from JBIC report (draft).

The JBIC researchers' report (draft, pg. 2-4) states that the TEEP participation rate improved
by 3.4 percent between 1999 and 2002, compared with the 1.9 percent increase for non-
TEEP non-ARMM provinces. This information is based on the Annual Poverty Indicators
Survey (APIS) involving 40,000 randomly selected households in1999 and 2002.

No intermediate outcome indicator was specified as such in the redesigned project, but the
Implementation Status Reports (ISR) also mention "Improved DepED capacity through more
information-based decision-making and provide [sic] grants for school-based innovation."

Enrollment, Completion, and Student Achievement

In 1996 (two years prior to the start of project implementation in 1998), the overall NER was
recorded at 87 percent (and the gross enrollment rate was 95 percent, based on the 7-12 age
group), completion rate was 64 percent, and the 1993-1996 NEAT results were below 50
MPS.

       Enrollment: TEEP overall fared better on NER than did the country as a whole;
however, further analyses of data are required to assess accurate changes in the NER
status.

With the implementation of BEIS in 2002-03, NER was computed on the basis of the 6-11
age cohort. End-of-project NER on the basis of the new population group shows a decline
from 2002-2003 for both TEEP and the country as a whole, although the decline is three
percentage points less for TEEP than it was nationwide.8 Possible causes of decrease could
be a lower-than-expected growth of in this age cohort, which was projected to increase by
two percent overall, based on the 2000 census data (although the population in the TEEP
divisions showed a projected increase of a much steeper five percent between 2002-03 and
2004-05; GOP PCR, appendix 12). The BEIS team noted that it is likely that fewer children
are entering schools at the required age of six as compared with children at age seven. Thus,



                                             14

another possible cause of lower-than-expected enrollment could be parents' reluctance to
send children to school at a younger age. The BEIS is currently conducting analysis of the
enrollment data to identify potential reasons for the NER decline. The 2004-2005 enrollment
ratios ranged between 68.8 percent in Agusan del Sur to 97.2 percent in E. Samar.

The actual number of 6-11 year old students enrolled in the TEEP divisions also decreased
by one percent between 2002-03 and 2004-05 from 1,418,664 to 1,404,032 students. The
estimated population increased, however, from 1,674,095 to 1,765,294 (five percent). The
SAR had estimated the projected 7-12 population in the original 26 divisions to be 2,184,199
in 2002-03, a difference of 510,104 from the more recent estimates, which is probably due to
the four divisions that were subsequently excluded from the project.9

The evaluation report prepared for JBIC (pg. 2-4) cites an increase of 3.4 percentage points
in NER, from 92.5 percent to 96.0 percent between 1999 and 2002, possibly reflecting an
increasing trend. The data are based on the Annual Poverty Indicators Survey involving
40,000 randomly selected households. The non-TEEP, non-ARMM enrollment ratio rose
from 95.3 to 97.2 percent. However, these data would pertain to the 7-12 age cohort. Thus,
the current data on enrollments are insufficient to determine accurately the change in the
NER status.

        Completion: TEEP completion rate improved from baseline, while the rate for
the country as a whole remained about the same.

Between 2002-03 and 2004-05, the completion rate increased only slightly from 60.2 to 61.4
percent, while the nationwide indictor declined from 64.8 to 63.3 percent.10 However, the
completion rate increased roughly 6.4 percentage points between 1996 and 2005 from a
baseline of 55 percent (based on all TEEP provinces at the time), but declined by 0.7
percentage points nationwide. Division-by-division data show uneven performance, with
completion rate improving for 10 divisions but declining for 13 between 2002-03 and 2004-
05. The division-level completion data ranged from 48.6 in Apayao (which declined) to 90.5
in E. Samar (which improved significantly) in 2005.

        Student Achievement: TEEP's strongest result is with respect to student
achievement, as evidenced through the overall TEEP performance on NSBA and NAT
assessments.

NSBA. TEEP schools performance improved significantly on the NSBA overall score, by
5.8 percentage points (p<.05) between baseline year (1999) and 2004-05 (although the school
samples were not the same). Using just the 2003-2005 sample, TEEP school performance
did not improve significantly between the two school years (2003 and 2005). However, the
TEEP score was significantly higher (5.9, p<.05) than that of the comparable non-TEEP
sample in 2005. The TEEP sample schools also performed significantly better in each grade
level and in the individual subject areas tested (see NSBA 2005 technical report). Data
disaggregated by type of school (e.g., multigrade, monograde, etc.) were not available to the
ICR team; and division-level results are not reported here, as the division-level samples may
not be robust. (The ICR mission did not have information available regarding the sampling



                                            15

frame and the robustness of the division-level samples.)

NAT. Analysis of nationwide NAT data shows a large improvement in the mean rank of
TEEP schools.11 Each school was ranked in the country on the basis of its NAT scores in
2002-03 and 2004-05 and its change in rank was calculated between these two school years.
The analysis shows that the mean rank of TEEP ELS schools improved by 2,846 between
2002-03 and 2004-05.12 In comparison, the improvement in the mean rank was lower for the
schools located in two clusters of non-poor divisions: the mean rank improvement for
National Capital Region (NCR) was 2,186, and the mean rank improvement for Pampanga+
schools, another group of non-poor divisions, was 975. At 746, the change in mean rank was
positive for non-ELS TEEP schools as well. Other groups of divisions either declined or
improved less dramatically. However, data disaggregated at the individual TEEP division-
level shows that not all TEEP divisions improved; in fact, the mean ranking of nine divisions
declined. Nonetheless, their MPS score improved between 2002-03 and 2004-05. (Although
this latter comparison is not strictly valid due to the differences in the grade levels tested ­
grade four in 2003 and grade six in 2005 ­ it provides an indication of the direction of the
divisional performance). Analysis using a difference-in-difference approach with the NAT
MPS data is not yet available.

Annex 10.1 provides division-by-division data on change in achievement rank and
completion rates.

Department of education capacity through information-based decision-making and school-
based grants

The project monitoring and evaluation subcomponent was established to ensure a robust
system of data to track project implementation, progress, and outcomes, and to use the
information generated for building capacity for transparent planning and policymaking at all
levels of the education system. It was also instituted for improving management oversight
and to provide support for project implementation. The project MIS built upon the core
database of the DepED BEIS, which includes information on student enrollment and other
key school information, such as school name, type of school, location, and so on. The
system was envisioned to support the modernization of the DepED MIS and to establish the
proposed DepED information and communication center.              The MIS database includes
additional elements, such as the results of the NSBA, and is electronically populated at the
division-level and linked to the BEIS. Divisions without internet access to the database
provide a CD of the database for CPISU input. The project has succeeded in enhancing
capacity of DepED staff and other administrative staff involved in the project at all levels of
the system, although support is clearly necessary at the division and school levels (see
section 2.3).

The project also successfully supported 3,069 divisional grants (of which 2,990 have been
completed and the remaining grants are ongoing) through SIIF, which were also considered
to be an important aspect of capacity building at the local level. A total of 2,583 schools (30
percent) took advantage of the SIIF, including 726 multigrade (17 percent of all multigrade
schools) and 836 large monograde and 1,021 small monograde schools (47 percent of all



                                             16

monograde schools). The SIIF projects focused on several types of interventions, including:
production, development and printing of instructional materials, and development to
instructional programs, specifically for underserved and disadvantaged students.          All
divisions except one, E. Samar, exceeded their targets; E. Samar completed only 59 percent
of its projects.

The ICR mission interviews and document reviews revealed that the SIIF grants were clearly
empowering, and, in coordination with the SBM component, provided schools with the
autonomy to experiment with solutions that were specific to their environment.

Linkages between outputs and outcomes

The project results were achieved clearly due to the level of resources injected into the
education system as well as the ways in which those resources were provided and the ways in
which they were utilized. The emphasis on civil works and furniture ensured that physical
capacity was not only available, but that the physical environment was attractive to parents
and children to attend school safely and comfortably; the provision of textbooks and teaching
materials ensured that the curriculum could be implemented and both teachers and students
had access to key educational resources needed for teaching and learning; and the provision
of extensive capacity building ensured that the resources being provided were used well and
the knowledge and skills of the education staff were enhanced for management and teaching.
The management and information system and the student assessment components introduced
much-needed rigor in developing and implementing data-based planning, programming, and
assessing performance.

In addition, a clear catalyst for change was SBM, which served as the central integrating
framework for directing project inputs and building local capacity for education planning and
program implementation beginning in school year 2003-04. The core features of SBM
included designing a five-year School Improvement Plan (SIP) in partnership with the
parents and the community and using systematic data such as student achievement (based on
school, division, or national tests) and students' language needs. Although small in terms of
its share of project funds (about one percent, providing roughly PhP 1,000 per month per
school), SBM was explicitly designed to yield large dividends: mobilize community support
for the school; catalyze ownership of the education process and outcomes; and enhance
transparency. SIIF similarly provided impetus for local planning and programming. SBM
implementation was a gradual process, beginning with the principal-led school building
program and school-based procurement of furniture, which empowered school heads to
manage a portion of the school resources and oversee capital improvements of their
buildings.

This is not to say that there were no implementation problems, or that the quality of the
inputs and implementation processes was uniformly high. For example, the implementation
of SBM has highlighted clear issues that need to be addressed going forward, including: (a)
how the roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities of the various community stakeholders
should be defined and clarified in devising school improvement plans; and (b) what roles and
responsibilities teachers-in-charge should have in SBM, given time constraints. Several



                                             17

school heads interviewed noted the time-consuming nature of managing community
relations, in addition to other responsibilities, such as providing instructional leadership.
Furthermore, they emphasized that they want the community "involved, but not too
involved." A separate evaluation of the SBM, sponsored by CPISU, is forthcoming.

Many of the schools the ICR mission visited did not have 1:1 textbook ratio or adequate
furniture, indicating distribution problems. Furthermore, students in several schools visited
by the ICR mission were not allowed to take workbooks and notebooks home, potentially
restricting parental involvement in education and limiting valuable time for learning.
Distance to school still remains an issue with respect to access in remote areas.

However, a trial and error approach and experimentation ensured that the use of project
resources was broadly in the right direction.

Less clear is the contribution of the policy research component (including the studies under
SIIF national window) of the project to meeting the project objectives. Although a number
of research reports have been produced, and an inventory for the research completed is ready,
the dissemination is weak, and recommendations have yet to be mainstreamed into policy.
This fact implies that a key link in maintaining and mainstreaming knowledge into DepED
operations is currently missing. Other research studies were not implemented. For example,
the National Educational Testing and Research Center proposal to develop and standardize
achievement tests was delayed and will not be completed, although a national policy on
student achievement is currently under development.

Finally, it should be noted that many of the TEEP schools are also beneficiaries of other
projects, such as UNICEF's program of child-friendly schools, which also potentially
contribute to the observed outcomes in this project.


3.3 Efficiency

No NVP, ERR, or FRR was calculated for the project, and no analyses are available to assess
the current status.     However, the SAR presented supporting evidence regarding the
investment choices (see Annex 5).

The SAR also cited a cost-effectiveness study in the Philippines that showed:

The difference in student achievement between students with textbooks and those without
ranged from 0.17 to 0.22 of a standard deviation in mathematics and Filipino, respectively.
The cost-effectiveness ratio was 253 pesos per standard deviation of student achievement in
mathematics; and the cost-effectiveness ratio for classroom furniture was 164 pesos per
standard deviation of student achievement in mathematics.

The SAR also estimated the increase in the completion rate, if the quality of three education
inputs (supplies, building, and teacher quality) were improved by 50 percent. In addition, the
SAR provided simulations of the effect of the provision of workbooks, classroom furniture,




                                            18

and both, on increase in achievement, which ranged from 7.5 to 20 percent in NEAT
mathematics scores.

The investment choices were grounded in research, but the project's efficiency in attaining
the key objectives ­ enrollment, completion, and student achievement ­ cannot be accurately
benchmarked due to lack of post-project completion comparative analyses in the Philippines.
Nonetheless, in addition to the indicators discussed in this document under section 3.2, the
project-supported gains in efficiency can be judged by the indicators discussed below,
although not all gains are precisely quantified and compared against benchmarks or
alternatives.

Achievement. The quality of education has improved (see section 3.2). Additional analyses
show that the percent of schools reaching the 75 MPS mastery level in mathematics was 33
percent for TEEP ELS and 24 percent for other TEEP schools in 2005. In contrast, the next
highest proportion of schools ­ 26 percent ­ reaching this mastery level was in Pampanga+, a
non-poor group of divisions. A similar pattern is evident for all subjects combined (see the
JBIC report).

The project cost roughly PhP 845 pesos per year per enrolled child (based on total project
cost in pesos, including LGU contributions, divided by an estimate of the total number of
children enrolled during the eight plus years of the project).i[13] A rough cost-effectiveness
ratio, using the overall NSBA gain in student achievement from 1999 to 2005, was PhP 834
per student per standard deviation gain. The cost-effectiveness ratio comparing TEEP versus
non-TEEP 2005 NSBA scores was similar at 837 pesos per standard deviation. The actual
difference in achievement in each case was about one standard deviation.14 The per capita
cost in the Philippines for elementary education was PhP 4,811 in 1998 and PhP 5,725 in
2004 (in nominal terms).ii[15]TEEP provinces were allocated an additional PhP 57 in 1998
and PhP 311 in 2004, for a total of PhP 4,848 in 1998 and PhP 6,036 in 2004. If we assume
that 60 percent of the project funds were spent on civil works (based on actual IBRD
expenditures) and the remaining were provided on top of the per pupil expenditures noted
above, the "extra" per pupil costs would amount to PhP 311 for MOOE (2004) and PhP 338
project funds, for a total of PhP 649 in 2004. Using this figure, at the higher end, the overall
gain in student achievement cost an extra 11 percent per student per year. The ICR team is
unable to comment on whether the gains justify the extra cost due to lack of comparative
data. However, the government could further analyze these data and develop benchmarks for
the future.

Time for completing civil works. The principal-led construction was typically completed in
90 days as compared to 120 days required for LGU-led construction. Estimates by the JBIC
review based on a small sample show that the average cost per room for a two-story six
monograde-classroom building was PhP 465,260 for the construction completed between
2002-2005, as opposed to PhP 562,800 under the Department of Public Works and
Highways, for a savings of PhP 97,540 or 17 percent. Similarly, savings for a one-story six
monograde-classroom building was estimated to be six percent.

Textbook costs and availability. Textbooks costs were reduced by at least 40 percent and



                                            19

took less time, 12 months, to procure than the standard of 24-36 months in previous years.
The project achieved an overall 1:1 textbook:student ratio (rather than the 2:1 target) within
the same budget envelop, due to combining procurement with the Second Social Expenditure
Management Project (SEMP), also funded by the World Bank. Bidding time was reduced
from 24 months to 3 months.

The question is whether the gains achieved can be sustained and spread to other provinces
given budget requirements. As discussed in section 2.5, GOP plans to mainstream key
processes of the project, and the Bank is supporting this effort through the NPSBE project.
The analyses included in the NPSBE Project Appraisal Document (RN 35445-PH) shows
that the plans to redeploy teachers will result in substantial yearly savings (reducing
expenditures by PhP 2.1 to PhP 9.4 billion). LGU implementation of the school building
program is expected to result in savings of another PhP2.4 billion to PhP3.4 billion. GOP has
identified other sources of funds as well. Thus, the project gains are expected to continue.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.

The rating of "satisfactory" is justified on the following basis:

    · TEEP objectives remained highly relevant to issues facing the elementary education
         sub-sector in the Philippines; and
    · The key performance indicators show that the project contributed successfully to
         student achievement and the elementary completion rate (not vis-à-vis targets, but as
         compared to the situation that prevailed before project implementation). NER data
         are potentially problematic (see section 3.2 above); and therefore, it is difficult to
         assess the impact of the project on student enrollment. However, all three TEEP
         indicators compare favorably to those of the country as a whole or other comparator
         groups at the time of project completion.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above).
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The operation had a significant positive effect on community involvement in education,
which was one of the intermediate outcomes expected through SBM. The ICR team visited
some formerly conflict-ridden areas (in Cotabato), where the TEEP schools have played an
important role in catalyzing community cooperation. A visible aspect of community support
is the amount of locally raised funding for schools: a 10 percent random sample of TEEP
schools in 17 divisions showed that, on average, they had been successful in doubling the
annual amount of locally raised funds raised per year after TEEP implementation from
sources other than government and the Parent-Teacher-Community Association (JBIC
report). The SBM grants in fact constituted, on average, only 33 percent of the funds
available at the school level.




                                              20

Survey data collected as part of NSBA also showed that TEEP students and teachers had
significantly more positive attitudes toward school and learning than did non-TEEP teachers
and students (the magnitude of the difference was 10 and 17 percent of standard deviation,
respectively.)


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Successful SBM implementation has yielded lessons and materials that area being
incorporated for SBM nationwide through BESRA (discussed in section 2.5).

The MIS system has provided lessons regarding the use of information systems and data for
planning and policymaking, particularly at the division and school levels. Division-level
planning and supervision systems have been strengthened as a result of participating in
project planning and MIS.

Local planning and curriculum development have been strengthened due to the SIIF grants
and SBM.

INSET experiences and materials have been shared with the Teacher Education Council and
some teacher training institutes, but need to be disseminated more widely.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The project has contributed to the development of an efficient procurement system in
DepED. The project improved on existing procedures and introduced innovations in
procurement systems for school furniture, textbooks and instructional materials.          For
example, TEEP decentralized bidding for goods at the division level for greater efficiency
(speed) and created the Division Procurement Inspectorate to ensure the quality of goods.

TEEP also helped to standardize several (27) architectural designs for schools (depending on
terrain and climate), which can be easily used elsewhere in the country. The principal-led
school building program has been mainstreamed into DepED's regular civil works program
and has been adopted in some new donor-funded projects (e.g., the Spanish government grant
on school buildings).


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A brief beneficiary assessment and survey show relatively good stakeholder engagement and
participation in the project activities.

The project conducted a beneficiary assessment in 2006. The survey showed that 90 percent
of the students interviewed in the 485 schools visited were aware of the project. On a scale
of 1 to 4, (1=not involved at all; 2=not very involved; 3=involved; 4=very much involved),
the mean ratings of the involvement of was 3.7 for school heads, 3.4 for teachers, and 3.4 for
Parent-Teacher-Community Association and barangay officials. Another survey conducted



                                             21

as part of the SBM evaluation showed that 65 percent community members reported high
involvement in formulation of SIP, and 62 percent reported high involvement in formulation
of Annual Implementation Plan (AIP).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible.

At present time, there appears to be no risk to the development outcomes of the project, given
the approaches being incorporated in BESRA. (Also see section 2.5).




5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

The project design was innovative and focused on key issues facing the sector. However, the
Bank initially did not pay sufficient attention to the risk scenarios associated with the human
capacity and financial preconditions necessary for taking the decentralized approach
proposed in the SAR (see section 2.1).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.

Although supervision and follow-up were regular (18 missions during project duration), the
quality of the supervision in the project's initial years was insufficiently focused on resolving
issues in project management and implementation. The ISRs show that the project received
"unsatisfactory" ratings on the development objective close to the mid-term review, but the
implementation progress continued to be rated as "satisfactory" (except once in mid-1999).
However, after the mid-term review and agreement on restructuring project management and
implementation, a review of the ISRs and back-to-office reports shows that supervision
became more effective and collaborative, with an emphasis on attention to development
impact and follow-up on agreed-upon actions. Discussions with clients reveal that especially
important was the Bank team's focus on identifying problems and taking a collaborative and
constructive approach to finding common solutions, building trust with the client, and
seeking a partnership rather than playing an "auditor" role. Implementation issues were
addressed immediately, and communication channels between the project management unit
and the Bank were regular and open. The team's focus evolved gradually from procurement
and input issues to an emphasis on solutions to achieve outcomes. For example, the road to
SBM was first trialed through the school-based building program. The latter years focused
also on the quality of the various specific education component inputs, including a rigorous
focus on measuring quality through assessments, and with an emphasis on sustainability.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance



                                             22

Rating: Satisfactory.

In light of the project's turnaround and intensive efforts of the Bank to resolve issues and
assist the government, overall Bank Performance merits a rating of "satisfactory."


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Government performance is satisfactory. The central government provided counterpart funds
to achieve key objectives, resolved issues in procurement, and ensured that the issues
identified in the mid-term review were addressed proactively.          It also adopted several
measures that helped to facilitate project implementation (e.g., in July 2004 DepED advised
divisions to drill down the regular MOOE to schools which supported SBM). Furthermore,
BESRA supported the project's decentralization thrust. (Also see section 2.2.)

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Implementing Agency: Department of Education

Performance. Implementing agency performance is satisfactory. Adequate planning,
management, monitoring and evaluation arrangements were put in place at the department
level and in the division-level project offices to ensure that inputs were provided as planned,
data were collected for planning, programming, and monitoring, and issues were resolved
rapidly. Regular supervision missions, use of the project MIS, and instituting quality
assurance procedures in procurement, civil works, and SBM, ensured a robust system project
implementation and oversight. Also helpful was the development of several materials and
manuals for the various project components, including the principal-led school building
program. The Implementing agency performance became extremely effective, efficient, and
supportive of the project after the management structure was reorganized to include organic
DepED staff in key positions with technical consultants working in-house as a team. (Also
see section 2.2)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Overall rating is based on satisfactory Government and Implementing Agency performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Visible successes are a key motivator for change; demonstrate results with a few pilots first.
SBM was rapidly accepted by all stakeholders, because it was tried and was successful in a
few schools on a piece-meal basis first.




                                              23

Information dissemination and capacity building play a significant role in the successful
implementation of decentralized systems such as SBM. Also important is learning by doing,
experimenting, and being willing to make mid-course corrections.

Local empowerment for planning and implementing locally developed plans, even with small
amounts of money, results in greater ownership and transparency. Participation of local
stakeholders in school improvement planning and implementation is critical to achieving
desired learning outcomes and to mobilizing much-needed resources.            However, clear
delineation of roles and responsibilities within a decentralized environment is critical to the
success of such a reform strategy.

Accountability systems, with clear performance criteria, are critical factors for effective and
efficient project implementation.

The (later) cost-sharing arrangements between LGUs and the DepED piloted in the TEEP on
school building construction instilled and developed a sense of ownership, which led to
greater concern for and participation in the monitoring of construction and repair works and
in the maintenance of classrooms.

Readily available and targeted technical assistance (for example, for school building program
as it was being done) is important in achieving timely and quality outputs.

The credibility of the results of any national assessments for students is enhanced when its
administration involves independent examiners and monitors.

The presence of a legal or policy cover to support new ways of doing business is essential for
experimentation.

Last, but not least, a focus on identifying problems and seeking solutions as a coherent,
collaborative Bank-client team is important for achieving results. The Bank teams' role in
creating an atmosphere of trust and partnership is paramount for effective implementation
and desired results.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Borrower comments are in Annex 7.


(b) Cofinanciers

Cofinancier's comments are in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                            24

25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest
              Components               Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD    Percentage of

                                         millions)         millions)       Appraisal

NATIONAL MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE                                         6.70              17.55       261.94

POLICY AND DECISION MAKING                        9.60              21.34       222.29
DECENTRALIZED
IMPLEMENTATION AND                               11.70              22.53       192.56
EFFECTIVE SCHOOLS
LOCAL MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURE AND CAPACITY                           32.50               6.63        20.40
BUILDING
DIVISIONAL EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT                                    421.20              153.11        36.35

                  Total Baseline Cost          481.70
Physical Contingencies                          45.28
Price Contingencies                             42.38
                   Total Project Costs         569.36              221.16
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                0.00        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                0.00        0.00
           Total Financing Required            569.36              221.16




(b) Financing


                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest
       Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage of
                                Financing Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD
                                             millions)       millions)     Appraisal

  International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                113.40             82.84       73.05
Development
  JAPAN: Japan Bank for
International Cooperation                         104.80             91.07       86.90
(JBIC) (formerly OECF)




                                           26

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Education Development

INSET Training

The output target was to train all 63,252 teachers and school heads. Project data indicate that
all 62,251 teachers in the TEEP divisions were trained, 95 percent of whom participated in
training five times or more. The project has not logged individual training records or the
number of teachers trained in each subject area (to avoid double counting teachers within
subject areas), although records exist regarding the number of times each teacher has been
trained. The highest amount of formal training time was devoted to English (30 percent),
followed by math (20 percent) and science (17 percent). Eight percent of training time was
devoted to Filipino, and the remaining 19 percent to other subjects, such as utilization of
textbooks and school kits. The data captured includes school-organized training.

The second stream of INSET was devoted to training school managers and other non-
teaching staff in civil works, procurement, student assessment, monitoring and evaluation,
advocacy, and school-based management. A total of 116,660 hours of training were devoted
to covering these topics. A key feature of this component was the E-FILERMAT training
(Effective Instructional Leadership and Educational Resource Management Training), which
was conducted from the Center in support of SBM and was targeted at school principals,
head-teachers, and teacher-in-charge. However, only 13 percent of this group underwent this
training, while the remaining 87 percent were trained at the division-level using the E-
FILERMAT materials.

INSET was gradually devolved from division-initiated training to school cluster-based
training in the last three years of the project, which comprised 81 percent of training offered
through the project.     Divisions and schools were supported in designing their training
materials (guidelines on conducing INSET, training needs assessments, good classroom
practices) that were distributed from DepED to the divisions down to the schools.

The project had originally planned to track whether INSET led to changes in teacher
behavior and the amount of time devoted to teaching. A survey-based study, conducted by
JBIC researchers in two divisions, Leyte and Abra, indicates that the participants found the
quality of the school-based training to be high, with 82 percent of them stating that it had a
high impact on them, and 70 percent stating that the division-based INSET had a high impact
on them. Ninety-five percent of the school head respondents noted that the alignment of the
training was with student performance was good, but almost half indicated that they had
difficulty in aligning training to the school performance goals.17 Although analyses covering
all divisions are not available on training quality, the ICR field visits indicate that the benefits
of training are palpable at the school-level. The ICR team found that the training was
relevant and the beneficiaries (teachers and other education staff) were motivated, inspired,
and using the information, skills, and knowledge they had gained. A follow up study was




                                              27

recommended, but did not take place.

School Improvement and Innovation Facility

The SIIF funding comprised two parts, a divisional and a national window. The divisional
window funds were set aside for awarding grants to schools for specific initiatives that
addressed problems identified in the school improvement plans. The grants were based on
eligibility criteria set by the Division Appraisal Committee. The grants were aimed at factors
related to reducing student dropout, increasing students' access, and improving students'
learning outcomes. The target for divisional window was set at 2,261 grants, and for the
national window it was 362 (eight for the supply side ­ such as research studies ­ and the
remaining for school-based demand side).

Table 1: SIIF targets and accomplishments, by type of SIIF
                 Window                            Target                Achievement
 Divisional Window                                           2,261 3,069
                                                                    2,990 (complete)
 National Window                                                    3 (complete)
                                                                    4 (ongoing)
 Supply Side                                                     8 3 (complete)
                                                                    4 (ongoing)
 Demand Side: School-Based                                     356 275 projects in 524
                                                                    schools
 Demand Side: ACTF                                                  633 Schools

The project successfully supported 3,069 divisional grants (of which 2,990 have been
completed and the remaining grants are ongoing). A total of 2,583 schools (30 percent) took
advantage of the SIIF, including 726 multigrade (17 percent of all multigrade schools), 836
large monograde, and 1,021 small monograde schools (47 percent of all monograde schools).
The per-pupil grant size ranged from PhP 394 to 566. The projects focused on several types
of interventions, including: production, development and printing of instructional materials,
and development of instructional programs, specifically for underserved and disadvantaged
students. All divisions except one, E. Samar, exceeded their targets; E. Samar completed
only 59 percent of its projects.

On the other hand, the national window continued to experience considerable delays in the
procurement and approval process. Although seven studies were contracted by DepED, only
three were completed by end-August 2006; the remaining studies are due for completion in
December. The DepED plans to review the results of the studies to assess what findings
might be applicable for program and policy services by the Program and Planning Division
of the Planning Service.

Finally, the demand side financing of the national window funded 275 school-based projects
benefiting 524 schools (48 large monograde, 176 small monograde ­ six percent of all
monograde schools ­ and 300 multigrade ­ seven percent of all multigrade schools). It also




                                             28

funded the Adopt-A-Child Trust Fund (ACTF), which supports school-community
partnerships and grants about PhP 100,000 for beneficiary schools and requires a 10 percent
matching funds from the local community. The funds are deposited in a Bank, along with the
10 percent counterpart funds from the local community, and the annual interest is used to
assist the school beneficiaries. Six hundred and thirty three schools and 232 districts in 13
divisions took advantage of this funding facility.

Textbook and Instructional Materials

At the time of project appraisal, the textbook:student ratio was grim at 1:4 (estimated in
SAR), and ranged from 1:3 in Benguet to 1:6 in Antique. The SAR set the target ratio at 2:1
(one set of four textbooks for two students), and 10,164,625 textbooks and supplementary
materials were to be distributed. The project succeeded in exceeding the ratio to attain an
overall 1:1 textbook:student ratio in English, Math, Science, and Filipino. Teachers also
received the Philippine Education Learning Competencies of curriculum standards for grades
1-6. This was no mean achievement, given the complexities of the distribution system.
Some glitches, however, remain. The ICR mission observed that in fact the 1:1 ratio is not
evenly distributed at the school level, due to lack of updated information on enrollments and
problems in communication between schools and their division offices.          The Textbook
Exchange Program,       which the DepED started in 2004, will need to be undertaken in
divisions with this problem. The ICR mission also noted that the use of textbooks is not yet
optimal, with some schools the mission visited not allowing the students to take the books
and workbooks home, and others with insufficient numbers of workbooks.

Textbooks, accompanying teacher manuals, supplementary teaching materials, and other
instructional materials were also provided on the basis of needs. For example, teachers were
provided classroom kits of visual aids and manipulative materials, and multilevel materials
for use in multigrade classrooms.

The DepED       developed the Textbook Count Project in 2003 together with civil society
organizations, which ensured that the textbooks and teacher's manuals procured by DepED
were delivered to and received by intended recipients. This was done on a regular basis. A
feedback mechanism on the satisfaction with and utilization of the textbooks was also to have
been established. The textbook procurement was combined with that of SEMP, beginning in
2002, which led to at least 40 percent cost savings per textbook due to volume discounts and
international competitive bidding, which made the procurement process more competitive
and transparent than before (internal Bank document).


The subcomponent sought to ensure appropriate utilization of the materials, support the
development and utilization of culturally relevant curriculum, and foster the implementation
of innovative teaching and learning strategies. Thus, local educators were also empowered to
develop their own materials, localize the curriculum to meet the needs of their ethnic student
populations, and use innovative pedagogies. To ensure quality of the content, the materials
were evaluated by a group of accredited personnel in the IMCS, DepEd, together with the
specialists from Bureau of Elementary Education (BEE). Twenty four percent of such




                                             29

materials were approved, with others conditionally approved for further revision.


Student Assessment (SA)

The SA and formative assessments were implemented for the purposes of continuous
feedback on student learning and to generate information for planning and implementation of
education programs and policies at the school, division, and central levels. For example, the
student achievement data were to be used to inform the content and design of INSET and to
improve teacher capacity for instruction. Student assessment was implemented through the
NSBA and training of teachers and school heads in formative assessments. In addition,
education staff at the National Education Testing and Research Center, BEE, and staff of
regional and divisional offices received technical assistance in designing and analyzing
standardized tests.

The NSBA was administered in 1999 to establish a baseline, and subsequently in 2001, 2003,
and 2005, to Grades 2, 4, and 6 in four subject areas: English, Mathematics, Science, and
Filipino. The tests were administered to 700 sampled schools in the 23 divisions, as well as
152 sampled schools in 10 non-TEEP divisions. The NSBA included a survey on students'
and teachers' attitudes toward schools.

The NSBA results were distributed to all sampled schools, which used the information for
setting targets and prioritizing education activities, such as teacher training through SIPs.
The information was used at the division and central-levels to target education inputs as well.

The capacity of the divisions to formulate formative tests was reportedly enhanced through
this process as well as through teacher training in the construction and use of formative
assessments, analysis and utilization of data, and use of traditional and non-traditional
methods in assessment. Nearly 100 percent of the teachers in all divisions were trained in all
areas (with a few exceptions, such as Romblon, in which none of the teachers were provided
training in the use of traditional and non-traditional methods). Student assessment data were
used to recognize high performing divisions, by the Center, but the low-performing divisions
were provided with technical assistance and greater monitoring by the Center.             High
performing schools were similarly recognized by the Center. Low performing schools ­
mostly multigrade schools ­ were given priority for monitoring and resource allocation.

Although information on quality of the division-level testing systems was not systematically
gathered for this ICR, the field visit revealed that at least one division's assessment methods
appear to have become more robust. All schools the ICR mission visited are reporting
student achievement data (whether NSBA or school-level data) as part of their annual report
card to the community (see paragraph on school-based management). Thus, this component
has generated awareness of the use of student assessment for the purposes of improving
pedagogy and school performance.




                                             30

Policy Research and Strategic Planning

This subcomponent was designed to support research leading to recommendations for
improving education planning and management. Eight research topics were identified, but
studies were launched only for five of the eight topics. Results of the completed studies have
been disseminated through policy seminars, monographs, and an integrative report. At
TEEP's recommendation, Division of the Office of Planning. The mandate of this secretariat
is to ensure that research recommendations are reviewed and relevant proposals are made to
the Department Secretary. But this body's original mandate has been significantly revised,
and no oversight body has been established to monitor the implementation of the
recommendations.

School-Based Management

SBM was not a specific subcomponent per se, as it was the central integrating framework for
directing project inputs and building local capacity for education planning and program
implementation beginning late in the project cycle in school year 2003-04.

The target for SBM was set at 6,459 or 75 percent of the 8,613 schools. The project
succeeded in exceeding the target and involving 7,278 schools or 84 percent of the TEEP
school population, which were supported with SBM funding.

The first 2003-04 batch comprised 2,230 schools of ELS clusters, the next batch in school
year 2004-05 consisted of 2,700 DDU schools, and the final batch in school year 2005-06
comprised 1,529 other schools. The remaining 25 percent were to be targeted in 2006-2007,
but some joined the program ahead of schedule. Sixteen of the 23 divisions involved all
schools in the SBM pilot.

The key features of SBM included designing a five-year SIP in partnership with the parents
and the community and using systematic data such as student achievement and students'
language needs. Based on SIP, schools developed a concrete AIP at the beginning of the
school year and a report card, to be shared with the community, at the end of the school year.
Thus, although small in terms of its share of project funds, this TEEP feature was explicitly
designed to mobilize community support for the school; catalyze ownership of the education
process and outcomes; and enhance transparency and accountability. These purposes have
largely been met.

Almost all TEEP schools, 95 percent, developed their five- year school improvement plans
(SIPs) and the associated AIP. Although 84 percent received SBM funds (an average of PhP
1,000 per month) the remaining 1,335 schools generated funds from sources such as parents,
teachers, community associations, etc., to implement their own plans. The SBM funding
allocation was based on a formula that provided each school with a flat amount (40-50
percent of the SBM funds), plus an amount prorated according to the number of students and
teachers and other criteria, such as percent of indigenous student population in the school.
Thus the funding favored schools located in DDUs.




                                            31

SBM received a boost from DepEd as well. In July 2004, DepED advised divisions also to
drill down the regular MOOE equitably to schools, and among the TEEP divisions, six
divisions released these funds directly to schools in cash. Furthermore, with SBM seed
money and the mechanism for community participation in place, the schools were successful
in generating additional funds from the community.

The SBM was successful, largely because of intensive capacity building of school heads,
beginning with E-FILERMAT and because of community involvement and advocacy. SBM
Handbook and Operational Manual and five primers in one kit, including topics on
construction, maintenance, and procurement, also provided much-needed how-to
information, and the prior experience with school-based building program helped develop
management skills.

However, ICR interviews revealed that better definition of roles and responsibilities of the
community members is needed, as well as of school heads (see discussion in section 3.2).

Component 2: Civil Works

School Building Program

The project met 100 percent of its target for new classroom construction and 90 percent for
repairs (see Table 2).

Table 2: School construction output indicators, by target and accomplishment
 Source of          Total Targets          Percent Completed        Percent Completed
    Funds                                   March 31, 2001             June 30, 2006
                 New        Repaired       New         Repaired      New        Repaired
               Classroom Classroom Classroom Classroom Classroom Classroom
 IBRD               2,355        6,678          8.7           3.1       109           88
 JBIC               3,042       10,432          5.8           2.9        94           91
 Total              5,397       17,110          7.1           3.0       100           90
Note: "Percent completed, March 31, 2001," data are from TEEP Restructuring Plan dated
May 15, 2001.

Fifty-six percent of the new classrooms and 71 percent of the repairs were completed under
the Principal-led construction program (under supervision from DepED), and the remaining
44 percent new classrooms and 29 percent repairs were completed under the LGU-led
program, later requiring 10 percent equity, with an advance from DepED repayable within a
year, if needed. The component encountered a few cases of faulty design and construction
and fraud, which were (or are) being duly handled.

The redesigned component for school building program for 2001-2004 initially required no
equity from LGUs and no MDFO involvement. However, the requirement was subsequently
agreed upon at 10 percent, down from the original 25 percent. DepED was to manage the
implementation, including the disbursement of GOP and loan funds; bidding and
construction was to be managed by DepED and schools principals; and the SBP funds were



                                           32

released to Divisions directly from Department of Budget and Management (DBM). DepED
was also responsible for providing technical assistance at all stages of the construction
(designs, bidding, awards and contracting, and construction supervision) and for
documentation of loan withdrawal. LGU-led school building was phased out upon
completion of the construction underway.        However, their continued involvement was
encouraged. The school mapping program was completed in 1998, and the results of this
mapping were used for prioritizing the inputs and guiding DepED's decisions.

The principal-led program (launched in 2001 under guidance from DepED) was a success, as
it reduced the amount of time devoted to building from about 220 days in the LGU-led
program to about 90 days. In addition, the supervision missions noted that the quality of the
buildings was as good as, if not better, than the LGU-led program buildings. The success of
the program is attributed to building in the summer months (when the schools are closed),
having the principal on hand for supervision, provision of technical support, training of
engineers for inspection and supervision, and institution of a program of quality management
(the Total Quality Assurance Program).

Fifty eight percent (a total of 4,994) of TEEP schools took advantage of the school building
program. Among these, 1,233 were large monograde schools, 2,035 were small monograde
(83 percent of all monograde schools), and 1,722 were multigrade schools (41 percent of all
multigrade schools).

Other Civil Works

The project completed 18 new division offices, repaired two division offices and NEAP, and
refurbished the TEEP central office and the DepED server room. The two division offices
the ICR mission visited were complete and appeared to be well constructed.

Component 3: Finance and Administration

Procurement

The objective of this subcomponent was to ensure that project furniture, textbooks, and
materials were delivered as planned to equitably support the teaching and learning
environment. Table 3 shows the number of items procured by category.

Table 3: Categories of items procured, by target, percent completed, and cost
       Category                 Target           Percent Completed          Cost in $
 School Furniture                     547,397                     93               6.71 M
 Textbooks and                     10,164,625                    173               17.68M
 Instructional
 Materials
 Instructional kits                    67,131                    113              11.49 M
 Other Goods                           15,163                    107               4.18 M

Eight two percent (7,027 schools) received school furniture; 96 percent (8,278 schools)



                                            33

received instructional kits; and 352 schools and education offices received other goods,
which included items such as computers. All schools received textbooks and instructional
materials. Procurement also included the installation of DepED's Local Area Network
(LAN) with 660 stations in 2004, leading to enhanced efficiency in communications. The
contracting of the furniture was done through a national bidding procedure, using a DepED-
led contact procedure requiring all suppliers to have inventories available at all times during
the contract period (12 months).

The project has worked hard over the years to solve distribution problems, including
designing the textbook exchange program and instituting improved inspection processes, and
most issues have been resolved through improved procedures and systems, especially after
2002. These included, for example, creating the division procurement inspectorate, which
ensured the quality of the procurement and synergizing the procurement with SEMP to
maximize the benefits of volume discounts. Thus, the project was able to exceed its physical
targets due to the economies of scale achieved under international competitive bidding
stipulated for contracts exceeding PhP 10M. The project also introduced the school-based
procurement of furniture (SBPF) program with a pilot in 21 schools in one division in 2003.
It was scaled up in 2004, and the delivery was speeded up, with 30 percent of the furniture
procurement under SBPF.

Twenty percent of TEEP schools were the beneficiaries of all component inputs.

Advocacy and Information Dissemination

The project paid much-needed attention to advocacy and information dissemination. A
number of advocacy and information campaigns and training programs were undertaken
during the project, which contributed to project implementation, especially SBM, the ways in
which schools and divisions reported education accomplishments to stakeholders and the
community, and sharing of best practices from TEEP initiatives, including the SIIF.
Advocacy and information dissemination activities ranged from community awareness
programs regarding TEEP to assistance to principals about how to communicate SBM
processes to the community members through channels such as booklets, manuals, videos,
and workshops. The subcomponent was integrated into the planning and implementation of
all other project components.     An end-of-project rigorous beneficiary assessment was
planned, but did not take place due to lack of funds (see section 3.5a).

Monitoring and Evaluation

The M&E subcomponent was established to ensure a robust system of data to track project
implementation, progress, and outcomes, and to use the information generated for building
capacity for transparent planning and policymaking at all levels of the education system. It
was also instituted for management oversight and to provide support for project
implementation.

The project MIS system was developed to be cascaded down to the schools to encourage
each school to track education indicators such as enrollment, dropout, and student



                                            34

achievement, in addition to resources such as the amount of funding generated. The school-
level monitoring instruments were designed and piloted in 2002-03 and implemented TEEP-
wide in 2003-2004. The school forms include information on school performance, physical
maintenance, partnerships and fund management. Other aspects included development of
tools for gathering information on supervisory and teacher performance for performance
evaluation. The MIS is regularly updated based on information provided by divisions.

The division M&E coordinators and school heads were trained in collection, analysis, and
use of the data, and all ELS were provided with a computer. However, the school-level MIS
forms have not yet been electronically populated, and school personnel have not yet mastered
how to calculate statistics such as dropout and completion rates. As part of the M&E, the
project benefited from regular monitoring and supervision and inputs from experts in the
various components of the project, especially in the second half of the project's life.




                                           35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The SAR presented analyses which showed that: (a) the average provincial per capita
expenditure (of households) was correlated with net enrollment ratio and student
achievement (no correlation coefficients were provided); (b) the incidence of poverty
was lower in households headed by individuals with a college education compared to
those without; (c) about one-fifth of children dropped out of school due to inaccessibility
of schooling and high cost of education; unsurprisingly, the cost-to-income ratio was
higher, 35 percent, for the bottom per-capita expenditure quintile as compared to five
percent for the top quintile, and parental contributions to per unit cost financing had
increased five fold between 1986 and 1994; (d) student absenteeism was negatively
associated with school quality; and (e) research that showed that private rates of return to
schooling in 1988 were highest for primary schools (18.3) percent, and the estimated
social rate of return was 13.3 percent.

The project was expected to reduce the costs of children going to school by improving its
quality and accessibility. Thus, the private costs of education were expected to become
lower than 30 percent, the estimate available from 1994. It is unclear, however, whether
this expectation was realized.




                                            36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


        Names                 Title             Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Benu Bidani          Lead Economist        AFTP1       Team Member
Francoise Delannoy   Consultant            HDNED       Task Manager
John N. Kirk         Consultant            LCSPS       Consultant, Education
Marlaine E. Lockheed Consultant            WBIEG       Team Member

Serge Theunynck      Sr. Implementation
                     Spec.                 AFTH2       Consultant, Civil Works

Cecilia D. Vales     Lead Procurement
                     Specialist            EAPCO       Team Member

Supervision/ICR

Preselyn Abella      Financial Management
                     Specialist            EAPCO

Dominic Reyes
Aumentado            Procurement Spec.     EAPCO

Jayshree Balachander Sr. Human Resources
                     Spec.                 EASHD       Task Manager

Cesar Palma Banzon   Team Assistant        EACPF
Ernesto Diaz         Consultant            EAPCO       Senior FM Specialist

Teresa Ho            Lead Human
                     Development Special   EASHD       HD Coordinator

Dingyong Hou         Sr. Operations Off.   EASHD       Task Manager
Angelina C. Ibus     Operations Officer    EASES
N. K. Jangira        Consultant            SASHD       Consultant-INSET
Emmanuel Y. Jimenez Sector Director        EASHD       Policy Research
Elizabeth M. King    Research Manager      DECRG       M and E
Bruno Andre Laporte Manager                WBIHD       HDNED Sector Manager
Cynthia F. Manalastas Executive Assistant  EACPF
Anjali Manglik       Program Assistant     EXTCD
Rene SD. Manuel      Procurement Spec.     EAPCO
Parivash Mehrdadi    Program Assistant     EASHD
Peter Russell Moock  Consultant            MNSHD       Economist
Ronaldo J. Oblepias  Consultant            EACPF       HD Operations Officer
Lynnette Dela Cruz
Perez                Sr. Education Spec.   EASHD

Joseph G. Reyes      Financial Management
                     Specialist            EAPCO

Noel Sta. Ines       Procurement Spec.     EAPCO
Sabrina Gail Terry   Program Assistant     EASHD



                                          37

Christopher J. Thomas Sector Manager       EASHD
Fe Timonera           Finance Officer      LOAG1
Alfonso F. de Guzman Consultant            AFTH1              Sr. Education Specialist



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY95                                                        85.45
                    FY96                                                       252.07
                    FY97                                                        75.60
                    FY98                                                         0.00
                    FY99                                                         0.00
                    FY00                                                         0.09
                    FY01                                                         0.00
                    FY02                                                         0.00
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.02
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                                    413.23
Supervision/ICR
                    FY95                                                         0.00
                    FY96                                                         0.81
                    FY97                                                        64.09
                    FY98                                                       114.95
                    FY99                                                       110.67
                    FY00                                     40                 75.11
                    FY01                                     23                 58.08
                    FY02                                     19                 47.37
                    FY03                                     22                 88.90
                    FY04                                     24                 81.07
                    FY05                                     23                 70.23
                    FY06                                      7                  7.03
                    FY07                                     10                 34.60
                                     Total:                 168                752.91




                                         38

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Beneficiary Assessment

A beneficiary assessment was conducted as part of a monitoring and technical assistance
mission by the TEEP CPISU and the Division Project Implementation Support Units
(DPISU) from July 2005 to January 2006 to schools that had not been visited in the last
two years. These schools were located in the DDU areas of the 23 project divisions. The
specific objective of the mission was to interview school heads, selected teachers, pupils
and community members regarding their awareness of, level of participation in, and
degree of satisfaction with TEEP implementation. Monitoring teams visited 485 schools
(260 monograde and 225 multigrade) and interviewed 440 school heads, 1,784 teachers,
1,603 Parent-Teacher-Community Association representatives and barangay officials,
and 5,080 pupils.

Results showed that ninety percent of the pupils interviewed were found to be aware of
TEEP, particularly of the different inputs their schools had received. Ninety-nine percent
also expressed happiness with the usefulness of the inputs for their studies.

Mean ratings on the project stakeholders' level of involvement in, and satisfaction with,
the project were similarly favorable. On a scale of one to four (1 = "not involved" to 4 =
"very involved"), respondents' mean ratings on their level of involvement in the
implementation of the project were above the scale mid-point, as follows: 3.69 for school
heads, followed by 3.38 for the Parent-Teacher-Community Association representatives,
and 3.37 for the teachers. Respondents also provided ratings of their satisfaction with the
project on a scale of one to four (1 = "not satisfied at all" to 4 = "fully satisfied"). The
respondents' mean ratings were as follows: 3.47 for school heads; 3.29 for Parent-
Teacher-Community representatives, and 3.25 for teachers. Table 1 below provides the
mean ratings by type of respondent and divisions.

      Table 1: Mean Beneficiary Ratings, by Type of Beneficiary and Division
                           Level of Involvement in       Degree of Satisfaction with Project
 Divisions                 Project Implementation
                       School    Teachers     PTCA       School       Teachers      PTCA
                        Heads                             Heads
 Agusan del Sur          3.57       3.28      3.61         3.35         3.16         3.38
 Antique                 3.79       3.68      3.59         3.50         3.41         3.41
 Benguet                 3.57       3.22      3.54         3.57         3.31         3.13
 Guimaras                3.79       3.78      3.35         3.70         3.73         2.90
 Ifugao                  3.57       3.36      3.37         3.21         3.11         2.19
 Surigao del Sur         3.73       3.51      3.55         3.47         3.30         3.27
 Biliran                 3.68       3.35      3.33         3.57         3.22         3.04
 Cotabato                3.76       3.17      3.39         3.65         2.99         3.21
 Leyte                   3.73       3.47      3.36         3.46         3.20         3.29
 Masbate                 3.55       3.06      3.16         3.20         2.99         2.85
 Negros Oriental         3.72       3.44      3.56         3.47         3.33         3.26




                                             39

Romblon               3.63       3.25      2.69      3.37       3.01   3.19
Southern Leyte        3.69       3.47      3.33      3.78       3.50   3.07
Zamboanga del Sur     3.74       3.12      3.46      3.46       2.99   3.71
Zamboanga Sibugay     3.72       3.51      3.59      3.41       3.46   3.46
Abra                  3.84       3.20      3.40      3.46       3.05   3.34
Apayao                3.90       3.28      3.46      3.56       3.24   3.37
Aurora                3.84       3.38      3.76      3.64       3.42   3.74
Batanes               3.88       3.71      3.57      3.57       3.63   3.63
Capiz                 3.66       3.34      3.47      3.57       3.25   3.32
Eastern Samar         3.68       3.41      3.27      3.24       3.20   3.12
Kalinga               3.50       3.34      2.87      3.26       3.22   2.86
Mt. Province          3.71       3.52      3.20      3.43       3.23   3.01
TEEP                  3.69       3.37      3.38      3.47       3.25   3.29
    Note: PTCA stands for Parent-Teacher-Community Association.




                                          40

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results




                                  41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Borrower's comments are included unedited.

Executive Summary of Borrower's ICR

The year 2006 marked the end of nine year investment program of the Department of Education
(DepEd) ­ the Third Elementary Education Project or TEEP. With the funding from the World
Bank and Japan Bank for International Cooperation, the TEEP successfully overcame all
difficulties and challenges in order to deliver what it was intended for, i.e., improving the quality
of elementary education in 23 poorest provinces. Specially, it aimed to (i) improve learning
achievements, completion rates, and access to quality elementary education, (ii) build
institutional capacity of the Department to manage change, and (iii) actively involve the
community and local government in a large-scale effort to attain quality education.

Project Background

The Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) was a seven-year, public investment program
of the Department of Education (DepED) with external financing from World Bank (WB) and
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). Implementation commenced in 1998 and
should have been completed in 2004. But its three and a half years (1998-2001) of
implementation has been a record of difficulties and challenges. In the mid-term review mission
commissioned by the funding agencies, it was concluded that: (i) the project design was
ambitious, (ii) the assumption for rapid decentralization of education management to Local
Government Units (LGUs) was optimistic, (iii) inordinate pressure on poor LGUs to provide
equity share and the lack of engineering capacity proved to be bottlenecks; and (iv) project
management structure was complex. So, the project was restructured in mid 2001 and its
completion was extended to June 30, 2006 for both World Bank and JBIC. JBIC disbursements
closed on the same day while WB gave a four month extension on disbursements.

The restructured TEEP adhered to the same goal of improving the quality of elementary
education.    It had the same objectives as in the         original design: (i) improve learning
achievements, completion rates and access to quality elementary education, (ii) build
institutional capacity of DepED to manage change, and (iii) actively involve the community and
local government in a large-scale effort to attain quality education. TEEP was intended to be a
laboratory of educational reforms that involved planning by stakeholders, social targeting,
decentralization, and school-focused and information-based decision making.

The Project originally covered 26 school divisions known as the Social Reform Agenda (SRA)
provinces but these were later reduced to 22 in 1999. The excluded provinces were Basilan,
Tawi-Tawi, Sulu and Maguindanao. The 22 provinces include Abra, Apayao, Aurora, Batanes,
Benguet, Ifugao, Kalinga, Masbate, Mt. Province and Romblon for Luzon; Antique, Biliran,
Capiz, Guimaras, Eastern Samar, Negros Oriental, Leyte and Southern Leyte for Visayas; and
Agusan del Sur, Cotabato, Surigao del Sur and Zamboanga del Sur for Mindanao. But in 2004,
Zamboanga Sibugay which used to be part of Zamboanga del Sur was recognized as a separate




                                             42

division and became the 23rd TEEP division.       In these 23 school divisions, 8,613 elementary
schools, 376 municipalities, 62,251 teachers and administrators and 1.7 million pupils were
recipients of the Project.

The original nine project components 1. Civil Works (CW), 2. In-Service Training (INSET), 3.
Student Assessment (SA), 4. School Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIF),                5.
Accounting, Budget and Finance, 6. Procurement, 7. Education Management and Information
System (E-MIS) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), 8. Information, Education,
Communication and Advocacy (IECA), and 9. Policy Research and Strategic Planning (PRSP)
were organized into three major components: (i) Civil Works, (ii) Education Development, and
(iii) Finance and Administration with subcomponents as shown in the table below. Consulting
services, although treated as a separate loan category, is subsumed under the Finance and
Administration component through the Accounting, Budget and Finance subcomponent.

A new list of indicators for project implementation and project impact are shown in Tables 2 and
3.

                                             TABLE 1
                               Indicators of Project Implementation

                            School Level (Aggregated by Division)

       1. Total usable classrooms (number of classroom units constructed and repaired)
       2. Total number of SIIF projects completed
       3. Total usable textbooks and other supplementary materials
       4. Total number of teachers and school heads trained
       5. Total school furniture and kits delivered
       6. Total number of equipment and other goods delivered
       7. List of schools with interventions and benefits in database
       8. Total number of schools with School Improvement Plan (SIP) and Annual
           Implementation Plan (AIP)
       9. Total number of schools with School-Based Management Fund (SBMF)
       10. TEEP funds disbursed

                                         Division Level
       Total number of division offices constructed/rehabilitated
       1. Total amount of direct TEEP releases to Divisions from Department of Budget and
          Management (DBM) in pesos


For project impact indicators, Table 2, the range of targets was collaboratively agreed upon by
the management teams of Central Project Implementation Support Unit (CPISU) and Division
Project Implementation Support Unit (DPISU) in consideration of baseline data and inputs that
will be provided to schools.




                                             43

                                            TABLE 2
                                   Indicators of Project Impact
                               Indicator                                Target

        1. Participation Rate                                   91 ­ 95%

        2. Completion Rate                                      58 ­ 78%

        3. Achievement Level                 Baseline           2005: 40-75 MPS
           NSBA (Grades 2, 4 & 6)            1999: 29-50 MPS    2005: 40-75 MPS
           NAT (Grades 4,5 & 6)              2003: 29-50 MPS


Physical and financial targets were set for each Project component in accordance with the agreed
loan categories. These targets as indicated in Table 3 took into consideration the Project's
indicators.

                                            TABLE 4
                                 Physical and Financial Targets

                      Component/Categories                            Targets
                                                               Physical     Financial


            · Civil Works                                                    6,813,013
                                                                    5,397
           No. of classrooms constructed                          17,110
           No. of classrooms repaired/rehabilitated                    24      332,847
           No. of division and other offices constructed


            · Textbooks and Instructional Materials           10,164,625       954,278
                (IMs)
           No. of copies distributed/received by schools



            · Goods (Other than Textbooks and IMs)
                                                                  67,131       617,849
           No. of school and classroom kits
           distributed/received by schools                      547,397        386,103
           No. of units of furniture distributed/received by
           schools                                                15,163       235,172
           No. of equipment distributed/received
           (computers, copiers, OHP, duplicating
           machine, etc.)




                                             44

            · Training
                                                                   62,252     656,005
           No. of teachers and administrators trained



            · School Improvement and Innovation
               Facility                                              2,261    522,721

           No. of school projects completed



            · School Based Management
                                                                     6,450    125,034
           No. of schools implementing SBM

         SubTotal                                                          10,643,022
         Consultancy Services                                               1,115,338
         Admin Cost                                                           967,919
         Total                                                            P12,726,279

The budget allocation by funding source (in million pesos) is as follows:
    · World Bank             -      PhP     4,309

    · JBIC                   -              4,508

    · National government -                 3,201

    · LGU                    -                 708
              Total          -      PhP     12,726

From that amount, TEEP had a cumulative expenditure of PhP11.617 billion, PhP6.332 billion
of which was spent for the construction of school buildings and division offices, and the repair
of classrooms. Maintenance and operating costs of the Project including in-service training of
teachers, SBM and innovative projects under SIIF used up PhP1.11 billion. A total of PhP2.10
billion was spent for the purchase of textbooks, school furniture and learning tools and office
equipment for the division offices. The amount of PhP1.11 billion went to consulting services
(TA contract) while PhP906 million went to personnel services and operating costs of the
Project such as IECA, student assessment and monitoring and evaluation. The table below
shows the expenditures by category.


              CATEGORY                         AMOUNT                 SHARE IN TEEP
                                                                        RESOURCES
      Civil Works                                 6,331,823.00             55%
      Goods                                       1,171,443.00             10%
      Textbooks and IMs                            926, 735.00             8%
      Training                                      642,386.00             6%



                                          45

    SIIF Grant                                    405,369.00                3%
    Consulting Services                        1,109,740.00                10%
    SBM Funds                                     116,618.00                1%
    Administrative Cost                           912,485.00                8%
        Personnel Services                        208,485.00
        General Administration                    704,000.00
                TOTAL                        11, 616, 599.00               100%


Targets and Accomplishments by Component


a.  Physical Accomplishments

    i.    Civil Works:

         The targets in the TEEP School Building Program were to build 5,397 classrooms
         and repair of 17,110 existing ones. The target in each participating province is
         shown in the next table.

                                  TOTAL RESTRUCTURED PROJECT TARGETS
                Province            LGU LED         Principal Led             TOTAL
                                   NC        R       NC         R          NC         R

          World Bank              1,331   1,871      1,024     4,807     2,355       6,678
          Agusan del Sur            327     245        297       525       624         770
          Antique                   154     495          30      567       184       1,062
          Ifugao                    124     161          11      213       135         374
          So. Leyte                 128     261          30      451       158         712
          Zamboanga del Sur         256     206        176       989       432       1,195
          Zamboanga Sibugay         126      43          88      974       214       1,017
          Cotabato                  216     460        392     1,088       608       1,548

          JBIC                    1,167   3,144      1,875     7,288     3,042      10,432
          Benguet                   106     238          50      348       156         586
          Guimaras                   30     138          20       78        50         216
          Surigao del Sur            91     311        182       518       273         829
          Romblon                    15     186          40      382        55         568
          Masbate                   147     281        423       851       570       1,132
          Negros Oriental           175     348        405     1,016       580       1,364
          Biliran                    14      95          18      265        32         360
          Leyte                     167     562        279     1,561       446       2,123
          Abra                       43     163          30      269        73         432
          Apayao                     81      38          30      110       111         148
          Aurora                     27      73          62      224        89         297




                                         46

Batanes                       -     25          1        35        1         60
Capiz                       58     284        110       677     168         961
Eastern Samar               60     206        118       517     178         723
Kalinga                     55      83         69       224     124         307
Mt. Province                98     113         38       213     136         326

TOTAL                    2,498   5,015      2,899 12,095       5,397     17,110

A total of 5,411 classrooms were constructed and 15,334 were repaired in 4,990
public elementary schools, or 58% of the 8,613 schools in the 23 TEEP provinces.
The types of schools that benefited from the TEEP School Building Program are in
the next table. Take note that 1,722 of the beneficiary schools ­ or 35% -- were the
traditionally disadvantaged multigrade schools.

              Total No.         Large               Small
              of Schools     Monograde           Monograde           Multigrade

     IFI         with
             Completed     No.of       %       No.of       %       No.of      %
                 SBP      Schools             Schools             Schools

  WB            1,988       457      23%        838       42%        693    35%
  JBIC          3,002       776      27%       1,197      40%       1,029   34%
   Total        4,990      1,233     25%       2,035      41%       1,722   35%

The next table shows the SBP accomplishment in new construction (NC) and repair
(R) in every mode of implementation (LGU-Led or Principal-Led).

                                         Completed Projects
        IFI             LGU-Led             Principal-Led              Total
                      NC          R         NC           R        NC          R
  World Bank         1,407      1,570      1,150      4,275       2,557     5,845
  JBIC                946       1,678      1,912      7,838       2,858     9,516
       Total         2,353      3,248      3,062      12,113      5,415    15,361

For the LGU-led SBP, 2,353 classrooms were built and 3,248 were repaired. These
represent 44% of the total number of new classrooms and 19% of all repairs in TEEP.
The 3,062 new classrooms and 12,113 repairs completed through the Principal-led
SBP, however, account for 57% of all accomplishments for new construction and
79% of all repairs. The table in the next page shows the completed projects in each
participating province.




                                47

                                               Completed Projects
Province                       LGU LED            Principal Led         TOTAL
                              NC        R         NC         R        NC        R
World Bank                 1,407      1,570     1,150     4,275    2,557      5,845

Agusan del Sur                367       263       231       613      598        876
Antique                       164      367       108        331      272        698
Ifugao                        115       199        71       322      186        521
So. Leyte                     153      349       109        475      262        824
Zamboanga del Sur             292      197       156        884      448      1,081
Zamboanga Sibugay             132       43       123        617      255        660
Cotabato                      184      152       352      1,033      536      1,185

JBIC                          946     1,678     1,912     7,838    2,858      9,516

Benguet                       129      172        87        447      216        619
Guimaras                       28      139        33        121       61        260
Surigao del Sur               115       419       203       458      318        877
Romblon                        60      114        50        329      110        443
Masbate                        84       48       321      1,069      405      1,117
Negros Oriental                62       20       270      1,370      332      1,390
Biliran                        11       42        57        214       68        256
Leyte                          76      134       336      1,438      412      1,572
Abra                           34       98        48        276       82        374
Apayao                         36         5       105       175      141        180
Aurora                         30       46        58        233       88        279
Batanes                         1       22        11         77       12         99
Capiz                          40      208       103        549      143        757
Eastern Samar                  50      106       111        532      161       638
Kalinga                        77       29        60        246      137        275
Mt. Province                  113       76        59        304      172        380

TOTAL                      2,353      3,248     3,062    12,113    5,415     15,361

 Construction of Division Offices

The TEEP constructed 18 division office buildings. It completed the repair and
rehabilitation of two division offices and the National Educators' Association of the
Philippines, and the refurbishing of the TEEP central office and the DepED server
room. Living quarters were added to the division offices to provide shelter to
traveling district officials, school heads or teachers from remote villages, who need to
follow up papers with the division office.

The construction and rehabilitation of division offices upgraded or standardized the



                                   48

    offices' telecommunication systems and fire protection system devices. The
    distinctive historical, social and cultural character of each recipient division was also
    considered in the architectural design.

ii.  Procurement

    The component exceeded its targets in three of its four procurement categories. Over
    17.5 million textbooks and instructional materials were distributed to TEEP schools,
    way over the Project's original target of 10.16 million textbooks and IMs. More
    books were delivered as the Project realized savings in its textbook procurement.
    Savings arose from reforms in procurement procedures that enhanced transparency,
    encouraged more bidders to participate and made the process more competitive,
    which drove unit prices down.

    The Project was also able to deliver more school kits and more office goods than its
    original targets. School kits are learning tools and teaching aid devices, including
    microscopes, body system charts, globes, maps and other models used in science and
    math classes. Office goods, categorized in the project as "other goods" refer to office
    machines and equipment delivered to central schools, district and division offices.
    These include desktop computers, laptops, printers, audio-visual systems and
    television sets for classroom instruction, photocopying machines, among others.

    The TEEP was not able to meet its target in the delivery of school furniture
    (armchairs, tables with chairs and two-seater desks) due to problems in central
    procurement in the early years of the Project and budgetary shortfalls in some project
    years.   The shift to division-level procurement and eventually to School-Based
    Procurement helped TEEP accelerate the delivery of school furniture.

                   Category            Target       Delivered            %
              School Furniture         547,397        507,157           93%
              TX and IMs             10,164,625     17,596,658          173%
              Kits                     67,131          75,721           113%
              Other Goods              15,163          16,222           107%

    Take note in the next table that the School-Based Procurement of Furniture
    accounted for 163,380 units, or 32% of school furniture delivered to TEEP
    elementary schools. Under the SBPF, the school and the community take charge of
    contracting local furniture makers and procuring the materials needed in the making
    of the school furniture.
                   Category            CPISU           DPISU             School
              School Furniture           301,691            55,317
               - SBPF                                                       163,380
              TX & IMs                17,596,652
              Kits                        67,350             8,371
              Other Goods                  9,417             6,805



                                      49

iii.  INSET


    · 62,251 teachers, school heads and district supervisors underwent various
        trainings in the core subjects under the TEEP.

    · A total of 217,597 training hours were spent on content and pedagogy.

    · Trainings were localized and designed to address the least-learned skills of
        students.

     Effects of INSET 1 on Student Performance

     There was a significant increase in the performance of TEEP schools in the three
     subject areas in the 2005 National Achievement Test (NAT) as shown in the graph
     below.




     Math and Science Mentoring Program

     External institutions were tapped for some of the Project's in-service training. The
     University of the Philippines-National Institute for Science and Math Education (UP-
     NISMED) conducted a summer intensive training in Science and Math teaching for
     1,143 elementary Science and Math teachers and instructional leaders (ILs) from the
     23 TEEP divisions. To reinforce mastery learning, UP-NISMED held a mentoring
     program for the trained teachers and ILs in 10 divisions. Each division was visited
     three times for one week each time. The mentoring program entered its last phase in



                                      50

    2006.    Mentors from UP-NISMED and observers from Bureau of Elementary
    Education (BEE) and the TEEP central office went to 15 schools nationwide to
    mentor 15 Science teachers and 13 Math teachers on all aspects of teaching from
    lesson planning to actual classroom instruction and management.

    INSET 2


   · The focus on INSET 2 was on capacity building of personnel in non-teaching
        areas such as civil works, procurement, student assessment, fund management,
        monitoring and evaluation, advocacy and school-based management.

   · The Effective Instructional Leadership and Educational Resource Management
        Training (E-FILERMAT) was in essence SBM training. Aimed to enhance the
        knowledge, attitudes and skills of principals, head teachers and teachers-in-
        charge in effective instructional leadership and administrative management at the
        school level, a total of 1,072 principals, head teachers and teachers-in-charge
        (13% of all school heads in the TEEP divisions) underwent E-FILERMAT.


iv.  School Improvement and Innovation Facility

    1.    Supply Side Divisional Window

          It aimed to reduce drop-outs and improve learning outcomes by giving grants to
          projects which were approved based on the eligibility criteria set by the
          Division Appraisal Committee (DAC).

          As of September 30, 2006:

          · 3,069 projects have been implemented (136% of targeted 2,261 grants);
          · Of this number, 2,990 (132% of targeted) were completed.
          · All the school-based projects had a total cost of PhP231.59 M.
          · The SIIF Supply Side was implemented in 2,583 schools in 434 school
            districts and benefited 507,915 students.
          · About 94% of the funds came from the Project while 6% was shouldered by
            the communities.

          Popular interventions tried in SIIF are the following:

          · Remedial reading and instruction classes
          · Tryout of progressive learning approaches or strategies
          · Enhanced teaching devices and instructional materials
          · Improved learning environment through the setting up of learning resource
            centers, use of TV, computers and audio-visual equipment in classes
          · Highly specific interventions such as pre-school summer classes, educational




                                     51

    tours, income-generating projects to raise funds for school supplies.

   SIIF projects maintained its focus on the marginalized and deprived,
   disadvantaged and underserved. Plans were implemented as envisioned by the
   schools and their stakeholders and in response to their unique problems. In
   many cases, the SIIF projects which were considered best practices were able to
   generate the broad-based support and active participation of local stakeholders.

2. National Window Supply-Side Projects

   This window addressed the reform or mainstream programs of regional or
   national application. It derived ideas from policy researches or directly from
   central, regional and divisional offices.

   The following projects were implemented under this facility:


  · Project Q Learn - Bureau of Elementary Education

    The Project developed multi-media self-learning packages - print (8,672 sets),
    audio and video materials (800 copies). These were utilized during School
    Learning Action Cell (SLAC) sessions to upgrade teaching competencies.
    The materials were distributed to all TEEP provinces. Likewise, 680 school
    heads were trained on the utilization of these learning packages. The project
    has been completed.


  · Field Test, Validation and Refinement of Reading Portfolio Assessment
    Processes and Materials - Division of Apayao
    Terminal report submitted to CPISU; program cascaded in all districts in the
    division.


  · Comprehensive Teacher Professional Development Program (COMTEACH)
    - BEE
    Validation of competency standards for elementary teachers was done.
    COMTECH was an assessment-based training system designed to direct the
    overall training policies of DepED towards a more focused merit-based
    performance appraisal of all public elementary school teachers. The project
    is due for completion in December 2006.


  · Institutional Capacity Building Program for Schools First Initiative (ICD-SFI)
    - Office of Planning Service
    Computers were procured and distributed to the planning officers of 139 non-
    TEEP divisions in 13 regions in support of the Basic Education Information
    System (BEIS) of the Department. Central, regional and division key
    personnel were trained on sector monitoring and strategic planning. The



                               52

    project is already completed.


  · Enhancing the Performance of Grade 1 Pupils Though the First Language
    Component - Cordillera Administrative Region
    Purchase, printing of books, reading materials for distribution to schools have
    been done. The materials are continually used and the program is sustained in
    schools where Ilocano is the first language of the children and the teachers.


  · Teacher Induction Program for Beginning Teachers - Teacher Education
    Council
    Modules were developed; bidding for the printing of materials was done.
    Benchmarking/study tour in Singapore and Malaysia on teacher education
    and induction was also done.        This project supported the development,
    production and distribution of self-instructional packages that new teachers
    may use at their own pace with the support of 480 school administrators and
    facilitators as mentors. The project has been completed.


  · Materials Development in Support of the Standard Curriculum for the
    Madrasah Education - Office of the Undersecretary for Muslim Affairs
    JBIC cleared direct contracting with INNOTECH; contract signed. Print and
    non-print support teaching and learning materials in five subject areas from
    Grades 1 to 6 were developed. Capacity building was built into the project.
    To date, 1,000 teachers attended the 23-day Pre-Service Training on
    Language Enhancement and Pedagogy of Azatids (Muslim Teachers). A total
    of 560,000 copies of Grade 1 textbooks (Arabic Language Islamic Values)
    and 10,000 copies of the curriculum framework were developed and
    distributed to 17 regions nationwide. The project is already completed.

3. Demand Side Projects

   The SIIF Demand-Side Window has two subcomponents:

    a.   School-based Project Funds which sponsored student stipends,
        community vouchers, feeding programs and water sanitation projects for
        the school;
    b. the ACTF, a funding mechanism designed by the TEEP to enable schools
        and communities to have continuing funding that would sustain direct aid
        to the poorest pupils, in the form of student stipends, community
        vouchers, feeding programs among others.             Under ACTF, each
        beneficiary school-community partnership (SCP) applied for and was
        usually awarded the maximum amount of PhP100,000 by the TEEP as
        seed money to start an ACTF. The SCP was expected to raise the cash
        counterpart, equivalent to 10% of the seed money. The seed money with
        the community counterpart is deposited in the bank for as long as the
        school exists, and only the annual interest is used to assist the



                             53

              beneficiaries. The SCP is registered as a non-profit, non-government
              foundation with the SEC, with representatives from the school,
              community, LGU and the DepEd division office sitting as members of the
              foundation board.

         School-based Projects

         As of August 15, 2006 ­

         · PhP44 million were released and used by 456 schools to fund 275 projects
           that provided direct aid to 58,872 indigent pupils;
         · 10% of the projects' costs were shouldered by the communities;
         · Divisions reported significant improvements in the schools' participation an
           completion rates, decreases in drop-out rates and improved school
           performance of student-beneficiaries.

         Adopt-A-Child Trust Fund

         · 633 schools and 232 school districts in 13 divisions (Apayao, Aurora,
           Benguet, Biliran, Cotabato, Guimaras, Ifugao, Leyte, Mountain Province,
           Negros Oriental, Romblon, Surigao del Sur and Zamboanga Sibugay),
           availed of the SIIF DSF seed fund from the TEEP totaling PhP48.9 million
           and established their ACTFs to be able to provide student stipends to poor
           pupils.
         · Community counterparts totaled PhP4.89 million.

         Common school-based demand-side interventions are:

         · Provision of school supplies, uniforms, shoes for the poorest students
         · Eyeglasses for children with weak eyesight
         · Feeding Program

v. Student Assessment

   The TEEP's Student Assessment component endeavored to promote data-driven
   decision making in schools. It provided trainings to improve the technical know-how
   of school heads and teachers in using testing instruments as tools in tracking the
   progress of students, in using the evaluation results as guide in teaching and teacher
   training and in gathering data from assessment as basis for school improvement
   planning.

   The component strived to improve the appreciation of school heads and teachers for
   traditional and non-traditional assessment methods. Relative to this, 40 DepED
   personnel from all the TEEP divisions, the Bureau of Elementary Education and the
   National Education Testing and Research Center underwent an eight-week training
   program on assessment in Melbourne, Australia from 1999 to 2000. The training was
   conducted by the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) under a
   subcontract with INTEM Consulting. The Filipino trainees came up with Formative



                                     54

        tests (FTs) and Associated Teaching Activities (ATAs) in subject areas like English
        (Reading, Writing, Speaking, and Listening), Mathematics, Science, Filipino
        (Pagbasa, Pagsulat, Pakikinig, Pagsasalita) and HEKASI.

        As continuing support for teachers in improving their assessment tools, TEEP
        provided them with Student Assessment (STSA) packages.             These are lesson
        exemplars integrating the FTs, ATAs and Teacher's Manuals. Master teachers from
        the TEEP provinces were trained on the appropriate use of these materials. The
        trained master teachers from each division became the core trainers of other teachers
        in their respective divisions.

   vi.   Services for Special and Disadvantaged Schools Based on Policy Researches

        Various programs designed to support schools' efforts to serve the most marginalized
        groups in the TEEP provinces have seen substantial progress:


        1. Trainings for multigrade teachers are sustained by the divisions and are among
            the best trainings designed by them during TEEP implementation;
        2. Compilation of learning packages for the Culture-Sensitive Curriculum for
            Indigenous Peoples underwent final round of revisions and are among the TEEP
            materials printed and distributed to TEEP and non-TEEP; and
        3. TEEP divisions report expansion of Special Education Programs and services for
            fast and slow learners, visual and hearing-impaired children and children with
            mental retardation.

   vii.  Roll-out of School-Based Management in TEEP schools


        ·    8,181 SBM pilot schools or 95% of 8,613 TEEP schools have approved School
            Improvement Plans and Annual Implementation Plans; and,
        ·    7,278 or 84% of all TEEP schools have received their School Based
            Management Fund grants.
        ·    Originally, TEEP was targeting to provide SBMF cash grants to only 75% of all
            TEEP schools. With the provision of the SBMF to 7,278 schools, the target was
            exceeded.
        ·    The remaining 1,335 TEEP schools that did not get SBMF successfully
            generated and mobilized funds from other sources like the Parents, Teachers and
            Community Association, Special Education Fund of the LGUs, donation from
            non-government organizations and the DepED Maintenance, Operations and
            Other Expenses (MOOE).

b. Qualitative Accomplishments

   The TEEP lowers the curtain on its nine-year education experiment with solid gains in
   levels of students' academic achievement. However, results show that the 23 beneficiary
   schools divisions should work harder to increase gains in learning outcomes and keep up



                                         55

initiatives to improve participation rates and further increase completion rates.

i.     Improvement in Learning Outcomes

        National Sample-Based Assessment (NSBA). In the final NSBA of the TEEP in
        2005, the overall MPS of the 23 TEEP provinces improved from 39.19% in 1999 to
        45.84% in 2005. Broken down by grade level tested and by subject area, the table
        below shows that with the exception of Grade 4 Math, all grade levels tested in
        every subject area, fell within the targeted range of 40% to 75%.

          Subject Area/           1999            2001            2003            2005
           Grade Level        MPS SDs          MPS SDs        MPS      SDs     MPS SDs
         Mathematics
            Grade 2           36.83 5.71       37.42 7.06     42.72 3.10       44.75 5.75
            Grade 4           34.33 6.12       33.38 4.30     37.02 3.74       36.94 5.72
            Grade 6           36.84 3.99       36.39 3.99     38.82 3.83       43.57 7.62
          Total               35.93 5.52       35.73 4.33     39.56 3.41       41.74 6.15
         Science
             Grade 4          34.49 5.44       37.19 5.18     39.03 4.19       45.04 6.70
             Grade 6          40.70 6.79       41.34 4.85     41.84 4.24       46.25 6.35
         Total                37.07 5.58       39.26 4.87     40.40 4.10       45.63 6.38
         English
           Grade 2            42.64 7.80       42.15 7.52     47.38 4.39       43.53 4.81
            Grade 4           37.96 8.25       39.22 7.24     40.98 5.64       40.48 7.14
            Grade 6           40.73 8.32       42.62 6.82     42.51 5.74       49.56 6.67
          Total               40.45 7.72       41.33 6.65     43.68 5.09       44.45 6.09
         Filipino
            Grade 2           40.95 7.71       41.89 7.87     50.18 4.72       51.14 5.43
            Grade 4           38.63 6.78       39.43 6.18     41.58 3.90       48.33 5.49
            Grade 6           53.41 10.81      50.31 6.43     49.31 5.10       54.48 5.52
           Total              43.31 6.91       43.86 6.35     47.01 4.37       51.57 5.30
         Across Subjects
         Totals
            Grade 2           40.14 6.88       40.49 7.24     46.76 3.90       46.47 5.11
            Grade 4           36.35 5.96       37.31 5.24     39.65 4.10       42.70 6.03
            Grade 6           42.92 7.35       42.67 4.99     43.12 4.38       48.47 6.31
         Total                39.19 6.11       40.04 5.20     42.66 3.99       45.77 5.80

      The 2005 National Achievement Test. The next table shows the Z-test results of the
      TEEP schools' performance vis-à-vis the national mean for the NAT in Grade 6 in
      2005. All the MPS of the TEEP sample in the five learning areas and in the overall
      test are higher than the NAT national means. The biggest difference is registered in
      Science and Mathematics. Moreover, all differences, except for the Filipino area, are
      found to be statistically significant.




                                        56

                                                       NAT National
                     Subtest             TEEP               Mean         Mean Significance
                                                                         Diff       Level
                                      MPS       SD     MPS        SD
              Mathematics             62.81    8.80    59.10      9.68   3.71      p< 0.01
              Science                 57.03    6.99    54.12      7.38   2.91      p< 0.01
              English                 61.90    7.56    59.15      7.86   2.75      p< 0.01
              Filipino                62.50    7.45    61.75      7.17   0.75        N.S.
              HEKASI (Soc.
              Studies)                61.07    7.96    59.55      8.21   1.52      p< 0.05

              Total Test              61.06    7.67    58.73      7.91   2.33      P<0.01

      ii.   Enrolment, Participation and Completion Rates

            Enrolment Rate: All in all, students' enrolment in TEEP provinces grew from
            1,763,024 in SY 1998-1999 to 1,778,912 in SY 2004-2005. From year to year,
            enrolment grew, except in school years 2000-01 and 2004-05, when decreases were
            recorded. The average increase from SY 1998-1999 to SY 2004-05 was 0.15%.

            Participation Rate:     The biggest challenge for TEEP provinces remains the
            participation rate. The participation rate in the project provinces steadily declined
            from 83.29% in SY 2002-03, to 81.34% in SY 2003-04, to 79.37% in SY 2004-05
            (although the last was higher than the national rate of 76.06%).

            The decline was a reflection of a national trend. The population data were based on
            the 2000 census. The population was projected to increase by 2% but there was
            minimal increase in enrolment.

            Completion Rate: The picture was better for the TEEP provinces, when it came to
            the completion rate. The rate steadily grew from 60.17% in SY 2002-03; to 60.74%
            in SY 2003-04; and 61.43% in SY 2004-05. TEEP provinces were not able to
            exceed the national completion rate but it narrowed the gap from 4.64 percentage
            points in SY 2002-03 to 1.83 percentage points in SY 2004-05.


Best Practices


Having been revolutionary in approach and strategy, TEEP adopted many best practices that
support decentralization, promote accountability, transparency and quality, and push the drive
for results-oriented methods, mechanisms and processes.

a. Consultative and participatory planning and implementation at all levels via the School
    Improvement Plans and Annual Implementation Plans, the writing and implementation of
    the Division Education Development Plans; the Work and Financial Planning conferences of
    the 23 Project provinces, the TEEP midterm financial review, quarterly and year-end
    financial review; and the Project's consultative conferences.




                                            57

b. Accountability and data-driven decision making at all levels demonstrated by the
  consistent tracking and analysis of mean percentage scores in standard assessments and the
  presentation of results to communities; the installation of tracking boards showing the
  school's enrolment, participation, completion rates as well as mean percentage scores in the
  core subjects; the presentation of the School's Report Card to stakeholders; the use of teacher
  and school head performance evaluation instruments; and the comprehensive School
  Profiling linked with the DepED Basic Education Information System at the national level.

c. Resource allocation based on equity and performance as exemplified by the TEEP
  divisions' formula in allocating School-Based Management Funds favoring the depressed,
  disadvantaged and underserved schools; the drilling down of the divisions' regular MOOE
  to the management of school heads; and the tracking of the divisions' performance in
  meeting TEEP targets as basis in the allocation of additional targets and funds.

d. Strategy identification based on needs and objectives as required in the implementation
  of division, district-based and school-based In-Service Training for teachers, the selection of
  class instruction techniques and methods, curriculum implementation and modifications,
  school innovations, student assessment and school advocacy.

e. New mechanisms that encourage quality, participation by more contractors,
  transparency, accountability and cost efficiency initiated by the Principal-Led School
  Building Program; the Summer Repair Program; the Total Quality Assurance Program
  quarterly evaluation of newly constructed buildings; the School-based Procurement of
  Furniture; full orientation of suppliers on inspection, delivery and acceptance procedures;
  "No inspection, no acceptance" and the Reject and Replace policy in procurement; and
  involvement of stakeholders in procurement processes.

f. Support systems worked out through integrated team monitoring by the divisions of their
  schools; the District Monitoring and Evaluation Committee for the implementation and
  review of the School Improvement Plan and Annual Implementation Plan; Division
  Appraisal Committees to assess newly drafted SIPs and proposals for school innovations;
  Division Resource Teams or core of trainers for in-service training of teachers; mentoring
  system of school heads and teachers tapping the master teachers as coaches; the clustering of
  schools for sharing of resources, School-Based Management              Fund processing and
  liquidation.

g. Rewards, incentives and recognition exemplified by the divisions' recognition of top
  performing schools, school heads, teachers and stakeholders in yearly awarding ceremonies,
  in the grant of additional material support for top performing schools.


Recommendations to DepED for Sustainability

a. Institutionalize School-based Management and its components, particularly the drilling
  down of portions of the DepED division's MOOE to schools to fund the SIP and AIP.
  Distribution of school shares from the MOOE should be based on the type of school



                                           58

  (large/small monograde, incomplete, multigrade etc) and should favor the depressed,
  disadvantaged and underserved schools.

b. Institutionalize the division support systems developed by TEEP divisions, such as
  mechanisms to monitor, evaluate and provide technical assistance to teachers and school
  managers in improving classroom instruction and school effectiveness.

c. Strengthen advocacy and networking for stakeholders' participation in school
  improvement planning and implementation through the organization of school governing
  councils.

d. Establish a National Assessment Framework (NAF) that will serve as the blueprint of
  assessment practices at different levels of the education system.

e. Consider integrating features of the National Sample-Based Assessment in the
  proposed NAF. NSBA served as a good basis to assess learning achievement as it was
  based on the Philippine Elementary Learning Competency (PELC) and the Restructured
  Basic Education Curriculum.

f. Institutionalize the Effective Instructional Leadership and Resource Management
  Training program for school heads nationwide as a form of preparation for the
  implementation of school-based management.

g. Maintain the Division Resource Team as a support structure that will ensure quality
  and relevance in the implementation of in-service training for teachers and DepED personnel
  at all levels.

h. Put in place a monitoring and technical assistance system to track the application of
  training gains in the classroom and ensure the continuing and appropriate use of training
  manuals, session guides, INSET packages, modules, video tapes and other training materials
  developed under TEEP.

i. Support and promote the use of assessment data from school and division tests as basis
  for training designs and school improvement planning.

j. Continue partnerships with teacher training institutions, NGOs, LGUs and other
  service providers in conducting in-service trainings.

k. Allocate DepED regular funds for school improvement and innovation projects, both
  supply-side and demand-side projects.

l. Institutionalize effective school innovations and ensure information dissemination on
  successful projects through the Research and Innovation Policy Evaluation Secretariat
  (RIPES).

m. Support modification of curriculum and development of instructional materials based
  on students' needs.

n. Support and encourage the establishment of learning resource centers and libraries in
  all remote schools.

o. Consider using TEEP monitoring tools in conducting quarterly or semi-annual evaluation




                                           59

   of pupils' performance and teacher and school head effectiveness. Use the information
   gathered in making a priority list of schools that need technical assistance and regular
   supervisory visits.

p. Include the Key Performance Indicators of learning achievement (non-readers/non-
   numerates, mean percentage scores, teacher and school head effectiveness assessment) in the
   monitoring system of the DepED.

q. Ensure regular updating of the Education Management Information System (E-MIS)
   at all levels.

r.  Institutionalize the use of the School Report Card to inform stakeholders about school
   performance and progress in SIP implementation.

s.  Adopt the policy of performance contracts linking teacher performance evaluation with
   pupil achievement.

t.  Introduce the School MIS to non-TEEP schools.

u. The DepEd's Physical Facilities Services and Engineering Division(PFSED) and the Task
   Force Engineering Assessment and Monitoring Team (TFEAM) can review the three
   manuals developed under the Principal-Led School Building for the setting of common
   guidelines for all schools nationwide.

v. PFSED and TFEAM can review and finalize existing TEEP school building designs and
   customization to different geographical conditions as standards to be adopted by all
   agencies or NGOs involved in school building construction.

w. The DepED can strengthen the Time, Cost, Quality Assurance Program through the
   creation of the Physical Facilities unit in each division that will evaluate the quality of
   school buildings constructed and conduct an inventory of needs for classroom construction
   and repair.

x. Adopt TEEP systems, processes and procedures in the delivery, inspection and
   acceptance of goods and services in all schools divisions.

y. Designate procurement officer at the division level to handle procurement activities.

z.  Adopt the following: a) organization of the division procurement inspectorate teams; b)
   division-level procurement of goods and services available in the province at lower costs; c)
   School-based Procurement of Furniture in areas where it could be most beneficial, such as
   far-flung communities with capability to supply furniture.

aa. Institutionalize decentralization of fund management: from the DBM to divisions down
   to schools.

bb. Provide training to project management and staff on financial management in foreign
   assisted projects.

cc. Train all school heads on fund management.

dd. Promote communication and advocacy planning in all schools divisions and public
   schools.



                                          60

ee. Sustain efforts to surface and share information on school's best practices through
    expos, recognition day, exhibits, intensive monitoring and the creation of a best practices
    database.

ff. Create a directory of NGOs, institutions, agencies or LGUs that provide aids, grants,
    donations or programs for school improvement and make the list available to schools.

gg. Create, maintain help desks and feed back centers at the division and district levels.

hh. Preserve the original mandate and of the RIPES personnel.


Comments on Draft ICR


Given by Dr. Yolanda Quijano, Asst. Director, Bureau of Elementary Education, Department of
Education and Deputy Project Manager, TEEP CPISU


    Below are our specific comments:

    A. We agree with the following:


    1. appropriateness of the analysis and conclusions of the Bank's ICR;

    2. discussions on the outcomes and results of the Project

    3. Roles of the Bank
Quality supervision missions were conducted regularly that helped the Management address
critical issues and concerns. The team that took charge of TEEP provided an open and proactive
environment necessary for decentralization. Furthermore, when implementation issues arose at
any time, communication lines were open and immediate responses were provided.
    1. Lessons Learned


        TEEP succeeded in many areas due to legal and policy cover to adopt "new ways" of
        doing things. The new ways implemented by the Project promoted efficiency of services
        and high quality inputs resulting in client satisfaction; they were inclusive, participatory,
        consultative and transparent thereby boosting the interest and morale of stakeholders;
        and were results-oriented and involved strict process of accountability

        The areas include decentralization to all levels, school-based management (student
        assessment, in-service training, school improvement and innovation facility, curriculum,
        instructional materials and textbooks, principal-led school building program, school-
        based procurement of furniture), data management, utilization and evaluation,
        information, education and community involvement, and decentralized fund
        management.




                                             61

leaders/managers or personnel who were in the best position to ensure sustainability of projects
were suddenly shuffled to new positions and the second bench was not ready to take over;
communication gaps begot misunderstanding over guidelines and procedures; and portions of
the TEEP working force could not efficiently absorb lessons from the trainings attended.




                                          62

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments are included unedited.

a. Overall comments of JBIC

The findings in the ICR present a fair assessment of the performance of the TEEP and
they generally coincide with the results of the completion study commissioned by JBIC.

The relationship between World Bank and JBIC was focused on the mutual
acknowledgement of the development challenges underlying TEEP. As such, there was a
strong motivation to strengthen the partnership and create an environment conducive to
close and meaningful dialogues on implementation issues/bottlenecks and policy
concerns, alongside the government partners. Based on this experience, JBIC welcomes
future collaboration with World Bank with the end view of deepening the gains learned
from TEEP and which are now factored into the GOP's BESRA.

b. Executive Summary of JBIC Completion Study1

1.0 BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT

    1.1 TEEP started in 1998 as a public investment program of the Government of the
          Philippines (GoP), World Bank (WB) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation
          (JBIC). It was aimed to address three major issues:

          · the deteriorating quality of basic education;
          · inequitable access to elementary education due to social selectivity; and
          · difficulties or lost opportunities due to overly centralized management.

    1.2 Project management was organized along components and sub-components as shown below.
        Central direction came from a Central Project Implementation Support Unit (CPISU) headed
        by a Deputy Project Manager with assistance from the Team Leader of the consultants.
        CPISU was composed of organic personnel, consultants and a number of project-hired staff.
        Project operations at the division level were managed by a Division Program Implementation
        Support Unit (DPISU), headed by the superintendent, with some assistance from a TEEP
        Division Adviser (TDA) and a few project-hired staff, notably engineers and accounting
        staff.

        Table ES-1: Project Components And Sub-Components

               Civil Works                Education Development           Finance and Administration
           School Building              Student Assessment                  Accounting, Budget and
           Program                      Curriculum, Instructional           Finance
             New Construction           Materials and Textbooks             Procurement



1 This is the first part of the Final Report of the JBIC Study Team for the Review of TEEP. The report
comes in three separately bound parts: 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, 2. INTEGRATED MAIN REPORT
and 3. APPENDICES.



                                                     63

       Repair                          (CIMTEX)                                        Information, Education,
     Division Offices                  In-Service Training (INSET)                     Communication and
                                       School Improvement and                          Advocacy (IECA)
                                       Innovation Facility (SIIF)                      Monitoring and Evaluation
                                       Policy Research and Strategic                   and Management Information
                                       Planning (PRSP)                                 System (MIS)
                                       School-Based Management
                                       (SBM)

   Source: TEEP. Draft Project Completion Report (as presented on 28 July 2006), Island Cove, Binakayan, Cavite


1.3 In pesos, the total budget for TEEP was P12.7B ­ P 4.3B (34%, World Bank Loan),
     P4.5B (35%, JBIC loan) and P3.8B (30%, GOP). Of this amount, P7.1B (56%) was
     allocated for civil works, i.e. school buildings and division offices.

   Table ES-2: TEEP Total Budget By Component And By Source (January 1998 To
   June 30 2006 In Million Pesos)
          COMPONENTS/                                                                                % of Total
           CATEGORIES                    WB            JBIC           GOP             TOTAL           Allocation
       Civil Works                        2,080           2,911         2,155              7,146           56.2%
       Goods                                825             111            303             1,239              9.7%
       Tx and IM                            907                             47                954             7.5%
       Training                             382                            274                656             5.2%
       SIIF Grant                            84             388             51                523             4.1%
       Consulting Services                   17           1,099                            1,115              8.8%
       SBM Funds                             78                             47                125             1.0%
       Administrative cost                                                 968                968             7.6%
       Total                              4,373           4,508         3,845             12,726          100.0%
       % of Total Allocations             34.4%          35.4%         30.2%             100.0%
   Source: TEEP Draft Project Completion Report (CD form), July 28 2006.


   Figure ES-1: Percent Distribution Of TEEP Budget To Project Components


                      8%

                     1%                                                                  Civil Works
                                                                                         Goods
                      9%
                                                                                         Textbooks/IM
                     4%
                                                                                         Training
                      5%                                                                 SIIF Grant

                     8%                                                                  Consulting Services

                                                                                         SBM Funds
                     10%                                               56%
                                                                                         Administrative Cost




                                                      64

    1.4 Between January 1998 and June 30 2006, TEEP disbursed P11.5B2 (or 90.6 % of               the
          P12.7 B project allotment).

    1.5 As a loan-funded project, TEEP operated under 3 types of budget ceilings: a dollar ceiling,
         a yen ceiling and a peso ceiling. By decision of the Philippine Investment Coordinating
         Council (ICC), the peso ceiling ended up as the most restrictive, thus precluding a 100%
         loan drawdown from either bank. Computed in pesos, TEEP drew down an amazing
         96.5% ( = P 4,219,350,000/ P 4,372,608,000) from the World Bank loan and 95.1% ( =
         P 4,287,869,000/ P 4,508,346,000) from the JBIC loan.


        Figure ES-2: Amounts Allocated Versus Amounts Disbursed (In Million Pesos)


                          AMOUNT ALLOCATED VERSUS AMOUNT DISBURSED IN MILLION PESOS
                                                1 = WORLD BANK, 2 = JBIC


           5,000            4,373                              4,508
           4,500                       4,219                             4,288

           4,000
           3,500
           3,000                                                                          ALLOCATED
           2,500
           2,000                                                                          DISBURSED

           1,500
           1,000
             500
                0
                                    1                                   2



        Computed in dollars for World Bank and in yen for JBIC, TEEP drew down 96.1%
        ( = $ 80,134,000/ $83,405,000) on the World Bank loan and a lower 84.1% ( = Y
        9,348,631,000/ Y 11,122,000,000) from the JBIC loan. It turned out the peso ceiling
        was more restrictive on the yen.


        Table ES-3 : TEEP Total Disbursements By Component And By Source
        Jan 1998 To June 30 2006, In Million Pesos.

                                        WB          JBIC    GOP          TOTAL
        Civil Works                      1,992       2,831    1,496         6,319   54.9%
        Goods                              789        111       234         1,135    9.9%
        Tx and IM                          904                    23          927    8.1%
        Training                           382                  258           640    5.6%



2 TEEP Draft Project Completion Report presented in the Workshop on the Project Completion Report.
Island Cove, Binakayan, Cavite, 24-29 July 2006.



                                                  65

          SIIF Grant                               72            248               35         354  3.1%
          Consulting Services                      10          1,098                        1,108  9.6%
          SBM Funds                                71                              45         116  1.0%
          Administrative cost                                                     906         906  7.9%
                                                4,219          4,288           2,997       11,504 100.0%
                                               36.7%         37.3%            26.1%        100.0%
         Source: TEEP Draft Project Completion Report ( CD, not printout) , July 28 2006.



2.0 PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUTCOMES:

    2.1 There are 3 Ways to Look at TEEP
         · TEEP was an "education reform" project designed to improve access and quality of
              education and reduce inequities in the system
         · TEEP was a "delivery system" to provide civil works, other material inputs, and training
              to 23 divisions, 8,6003 schools, 54,000 teachers and about 1.74 million pupils subject to
              time, cost and quality constraints..
         · TEEP was a human resource and management development project.

         TEEP succeeded in all three ways.

    2.2 TEEP was the Biggest Social Laboratory for Education Reform in the History of
         DepEd. It succeeded.

         It targeted the poorest provinces in 1997, the so-called Social Reform Agenda (SRA)
         provinces. The ARMM provinces would have been part of TEEP too but peace and order
         considerations ruled out their inclusion at the time. There were originally only 22 provinces
         in the first 2 years but this eventually became 23 when Zamboanga del Sur was split into
         Zamboanga del Sur and Zamboanga Sibugay.

    2.3 TEEP Improved Access to Elementary Education
         · A 3.5% increase in participation rates from 92.5 % in 1999 to 96.0% in 2002.
              This finding is based on the 1999 and 2002 Annual Poverty Indicators Survey5 (or
              APIS), not on DepEd-reported data. The increase is better than the 1.9%
              improvement in non-TEEP non-ARMM provinces from 95.3% to 97.2%.
         · Given the same income level and other family characteristics, a child from a TEEP
              division was 13% more likely to be enrolled than a child in a non-TEEP non-
              ARMM division. This is based on logistic regression using APIS data.



3 This is a rounded approximate number. In the course of the review, the total number of schools (whether
in TEEP only or for the Philippines as a whole) never got to be fixed. The most reliable figure should be
the number supported by the master list of schools but even then, there are many lists which do not tally
with each other. Because of the inconsistent use of ID numbers and recording of school annexes, it is not
easy to pinpoint where two lists differ.
4 The "total enrolment" (whether in TEEP or the Philippines as a whole) was also a moving target even
when derived from databases which show school-by-school data. For most computations, the Review used
the approximate figure of 1.7M for the total enrolment in TEEP.
5 The APIS is conducted by the National Statistics Office every other year and involves a random sample
of about 40,000 households all over the country.



                                                           66

    2.4 More TEEP Schools Achieve "Zero Non-Reader" Goal
         TEEP has explicit zero non-reader and zero non-numerate goals in Grades 1-3. The
         percentage of TEEP schools who have achieved this goal has been increasing, as shown
         in the chart below.

     Figure ES-3: Percent Of TEEP Schools With Zero Non-Readers And Zero Non-
     Numerates, SY 2004-05 Versus SY 2005-06


                                              % OF TEEP SCHOOLS
                            WITH ZERO NON-READERS and NON-NUMERATES



             30%                                      26%

                                                                        23%
             25%                   22%         23%

                                                                20%
                         18%
             20%


             15%                                                                       2004-05
                                                                                       2005-06

             10%


              5%


              0%
                         ENGLISH               FILIPINO    NON-NUMERATE


                 Source: TEEP Draft PCR Report.



    2.5 TEEP Improved Learning Achievement Using Many Measures.
         Two sets of national assessment bear out the achievement:
         · The National Sample-based Assessment (NSBA), administered by TEEP to a sample
             of 701 of its schools and a sample of 166 schools in non-TEEP provinces.
         · The National Achievement Test (NAT), administered to all (or almost all) students at
             a specific grade level.

         2.5.1 The NSBA 2005 results show that the TEEP schools scored significantly
               higher, in all grade levels, than the non-TEEP schools6. (See Figure ES-4
               below) Unfortunately, the non-TEEP sample was too small to make more detailed
               comparisons between TEEP and subgroups of non-TEEP schools.



6 In the NSBA 2000-01, there was no significant difference between the performance of TEEP and non-
TEEP schools. By 2004-05, as measured by the NSBA, the TEEP schools were outperforming the non-
TEEP.



                                                    67

     Figure ES-4: 2005 NSBA MPS by subject, TEEP versus Non-TEEP.


   60.0


                                                                 51.3

   50.0                                                               46.9
              44.4                               45.4                            45.8

                                 41.7

   40.0            38.0                                38.7                            39.9

                                       35.1


                                                                                                   Series1
   30.0
                                                                                                   Series2



   20.0



   10.0



    0.0
               English             Math           Science         Filipino      TOTAL TEST

     Source: TEEP Student Assessment, 2005.


        2.5.2 Admittedly NAT7 is not a perfect instrument but it has been the only national
                standard test over the past 8 years. The Review used NAT as the measure of
                achievement, in particular the following:
                1. The Top Ten Divisions of the country based on NAT 2004-05.
                2. The "Top 1% Schools" of the country based on NAT 2004-05.
                3. % of schools which crossed mastery level (an MPS of 75) in 2004-05.
                4. % of schools which reached "near-mastery" level (an MPS of 60) in 2004-05
                5. Mean percentage scores (MPS) in 2004-05. See Figure E-5.
                6. Average rank8 of the schools in the division in 2004-05.




7 There were no national achievement tests in 1998-99, 1999-2000 and 2001-02. NSBA was given in 2000-
01, 2002-03 and 2004-05. NAT was administered in 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 but the
2005-06 results were not available at the time of this Review.
8 Based on the average MPS of its pupils, each school is ranked in the country. With about 34,000 schools
in the NAT, the highest-scoring school was given rank 34,000 and the lowest-scoring was given rank 1. If a
school ranked 10,000 in NAT 2002-03 goes up to rank 12,000 in NAT 2004-05, we say that the school
improved by 2,000 schools. The rank of the division is the average rank of its schools. The Review Team
had to resort to the analysis of school and division ranks and improvement in rank ­ instead of the usual



                                                     68

                7. Improvement in rank between 2002-03 and 2004-05. See Figure E-6.

        By all these measures, the TEEP schools and divisions performed very well.

        Table ES-4: National Student Assessment Examinations Administered Between
        1997-98 And 2004-05.

           1997-98      1998-99      1999-00 2000-01  2001-02  2002-03     2003-04     2004-05



            NEAT




                                              NSBA              NSBA                    NSBA



                                                                 NAT        NAT          NAT
                                                               Grade 4     Grade 5     Grade 6



        · In NAT 2002-03, there was no TEEP province among the Top Ten divisions. In NAT
             2003-04, two TEEP divisions made it: Leyte and Surigao del Sur. In NAT 2004-05,
             three TEEP provinces made it: Biliran, Eastern Samar and Southern Leyte.
             Recall that TEEP was in only 23 out of 188 school divisions of the Philippines.
        · Among the Top 1% schools ( approximately the Top 300 schools of the country) in
             NAT 2004-05: 26% of them were from TEEP ­ although the proportionate share
             in school population of TEEP is only 21%.

    2.6 The Review Compared TEEP with Other Groups of Poor Provinces
        The 23 provinces were picked for TEEP because they were poorest at the time the project
        started. Thus, it was deemed appropriate by the Review Team to compare TEEP with
        other provinces grouped according to poverty9. Based on four (4) poverty indices, six
        groups of provinces emerged as shown below.

        Table ES-5: Groups Of Poor And Non-Poor Provinces As Classified Using 4 Poverty
        Indices
            NAME OF PROVINCE GROUP                GENERAL DESCRIPTION               NO. OF
               OR DIVISION CLUSTER                                               PROVINCES
          ARMM                                         Clearly poor                     7
          AKLAN+                                       Clearly poor                     8
          CAGAYAN+                                          Poor                       21
          ILOILO+                                        Less poor                      8
          PAMPANGA+                                      Non-poor                      99
          (includes all cities outside NCR)
          NCR                                            Non-poor                      14
                  Source: BEIS++




MPS and improvement in MPS -- because the NAT was not given to the same grade level in the three
years.
9 Please see Appendix F of the Main Integrated Report of this Review for the classification of provinces
based on 4 poverty indices. The complete listing of provinces under each group is in the same appendix.



                                                    69

     2.7 TEEP Improved Pupil Achievement --- Better than the Other Poor Provinces, as
             Good as the Non-Poor.

      Figure ES-5: By Province Group, Overall NAT MPS In 2004-05.

                              OVERALL NAT MPS 2004-05 BY PROVINCE GROUP


                70.0        64.6

                                       59.4               57.7                        60.4       60.5
                                                                   55.9
                60.0                                                          54.7


                                               45.1
                50.0


                40.0


                30.0


                20.0


                10.0


                 -

                    TEEPELS                ARMM     AKLAN+             ILOILO+              NCR

                           TEEPNON-ELS                      CAGAYAN+          PAMPANGA+

      Source: BEIS++10


     Figure ES-5 shows that TEEP elementary leader schools ( with MPS 64.6%) scored higher
     than even non-poor Pampanga+ ( with MPS 60.4%) and NCR (60.5%). The other TEEP
     schools, i.e. the non-ELS, scored 59.4%. The combined TEEP average is 59.6%, slightly
     lower than the non-poor provinces.

     · A higher percentage of TEEP schools crossed the near-mastery level (60% MPS) in NAT
           2004-05 than all schools ­ more than the poor provinces, more than even the non-poor.
           The lead of TEEP is even more dramatic in Math.
     · A higher percentage of TEEP schools crossed the mastery level ( 75% MPS) in NAT
           2004-05 than all schools ­ more than the poor provinces, as much as the non-poor.
           The lead of TEEP is even more dramatic in Math as can be seen below in Figure E-6. In
           2004-05, 1/3 of the ELS and ¼ of the other TEEP schools reached NAT mastery level in
           mathematics.




10 BEIS++ is the name given to the database used by the JBIC Review Team in its statistical analyses. The
database combines data from the BEIS, NETRC and from the TEEP project database. While the BEIS
itself lists about 36,500 schools, the BEIS contains about 24,500 schools because many schools do not have
compete data.



                                                     70

     Figure ES-6: The Percent Of Schools11 Which Crossed Mastery Level (MPS 75) In
     MATHEMATICS In The NAT 2004-05.


                 % OF SCHOOLS WHICH REACHED 75% MASTERY LEVEL IN NAT 2004-05

                               33%
                    35%

                    30%                                                                26%
                                        24%
                    25%
                                                          18%
                    20%                                                                       17%
                    15%                                              9%
                    10%
                                                 4%                            5%

                      5%

                      0%

                       TEEP ELS             ARMM    AKLAN+              ILOILO+             NCR

                             TEEPNON-ELS                   CAGAYAN+            PAMPANGA+


     Source: BEIS++



    2.8 By many measures of achievement, it can be seen that TEEP catapulted the 23 provinces
        to the achievement level12 of non-poor divisions NCR. This is a major feat considering
        that in 2002-03, the MPS and ranks of the 23 provinces were even lower than Aklan+,
        Iloilo+ and Cagayan+. Only ARMM ranked lower than the 23 provinces.

    2.9 TEEP has been "the equalizer" and it reduced the inequities between the poor and
        the non-poor. The interventions of TEEP seem to have wiped out the socio-economic
        advantage of schools in Pampanga+ and NCR. At the same time, the analysis has
        incidentally revealed the need for TEEP-type project/s for at least ARMM, Aklan+, and
        Cagayan+. One can only surmise how these poor provinces might have improved if they
        had received the same TEEP-type interventions.

TEEP demonstrated it is possible to equalize opportunities in a highly unequal socio-
economic structure. This is one of the legacies of TEEP.




11 The graph shows that 33% of the TEEP elementary leader schools (ELS) reached mastery level in the
mathematics portion of NAT 2004-05. Among the non-ELS in TEEP, 24% of them reached mastery level.
For TEEP as a whole, about 27% reached mastery level ­ higher than the poor provinces and indeed higher
than even the non-poor Pampanga+ and NCR.
12 The achievement levels for the Philippines, including those of non-poor Pampanga+ and NCR, need
much improvement. Thus it may not be a cause for much celebration among some people that TEEP
reached the achievement levels of said non-poor provinces. But still, TEEP did reduce the inequity between
the 23 poorest provinces on the one hand and the non-poor provinces on the other hand.



                                                   71

Figure ES-7: By Province Group, The Improvement In Rank13 Of Schools From NAT
2002-03 To NAT 2004-05




                                                                           2,186           NCR
                                                                    975                    Pampanga+
                                                                140                        Iloilo+
     Change in Mean                         -1145
     Rankings SY02-                      -1,628                                            Cagayan+

      03 to SY04-05     -4,457                                                             Aklan+
                                                                   746                     ARMM

                                                                             2,846         TEEPnon-ELS

                                                                                           TEEPELS

                     -6,000 -4,000 -2,000                0        2,000      4,000



          Source: BEIS++



3.0 TEEP WAS AN EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE "DELIVERY SYSTEM"

     Table ES-6a : The Magnitude Of Procurement Under TEEP, Physical Quantities Targeted
     And Delivered, And Amounts Disbursed By Type.


      Category                                         Physical Target          Delivered (no. of      % delivery
                                     COST                 (no. of pieces)                 pieces)             rate
      School Furniture              P 386 M                      547,397                  520,388             95%
      TX and IMs                    P 954 M                  10,164,625                17,596,658            173%
      Kits                          P 591 M                        67,131                  75,721            113%
      Other Goods                   P 233 M                        15,163                  16,199            107%

                                   P 2,164 M
          Source: TEEP Draft PCR (July 2006)




13 This chart depicts the improvement in average school rank from the 2002-03 NAT to the 2004-05 NAT.
It reveals dramatically that "rich" (i.e. non-poor) schools do better than poor schools. The 23 provinces are
also poor/ still poor but with the support of TEEP, the schools in the 23 provinces improved just like the
non-poor divisions.
· NCR improved its rank and leaped over 2,186 schools (about 9 % of the schools in BEIS++).
· The poor provinces ARMM, Aklan+ and Cagayan+ all declined in ranks. Indeed, the rank of ARMM
     fell behind by 4,457 schools (about 18% of the schools in BEIS) schools while Aklan+ fell by 1,628
     schools (about 6 %).
· In contrast, the TEEP ELS schools leaped in front of 2,846 schools (or 11% of all schools) while the
     other TEEP schools, i.e. the non-ELS, jumped ahead by 746 schools ( 3% of all schools).




                                                      72

         Table ES-6b The Magnitude Of Procurement Under TEEP, Physical Quantities
         Procured By Level14.


                                                         DPISU-          SCHOOL-               TOTAL
         Category                          CPISU-
                                     PROCURED     PROCURED PROCURED                             NO. OF
                                                                                               PIECES

         School Furniture                  301,691         55,317            163,380            520,388
         TX and IMs                     17,596,658                                          17,596,658
         Kits                               67,350           8,371                                75,721
         Other Goods                         9,416           6,783                                16,199
         Source: TEEP Draft PCR (July 2006)


    · TEEP disbursed a total of P 6.3B to construct 5,461 new classrooms,15,404 room repairs, 18
         new and 5 division office buildings rehabilitations ­ translating to about P500,000 per
         classroom, P225,000 per repair and about P13M per new division office.
    · Both new rooms and repairs were standard-sized and came complete with amenities
         (plumbing, electrical, window grills, ceilings, new paint job). The repairs were actually
         rehabilitations, looked "good as new" and removed any stigma of being second-class
         compared to brand-new construction. As a brand name in classroom construction and
         repairs, "TEEP" has earned a reputation for top quality.
    · The July 2003 Ateneo/G-watch study revealed it was not fair to directly compare TEEP
         classrooms with either DPWH construction (because the latter were often left unfinished) or
         those built by NGOs (because these were sometimes undersized or used inferior materials).
         The classrooms comparable in quality with TEEP were those donated by JICA or built by
         SEMP.
    · TEEP introduced the principal-led construction mode in mid-2001 and this accelerated
         delivery: 1,000 classrooms within 6 months and another 1,000 classrooms in the next 6
         months.
    · The principal-led mode did not disrupt the school head's administrative and academic
         workload. In a typical 90-day cycle15 for new construction, the principal spent an average of
         only 1 hour per day. Legal cover for the innovation was provided by RA 9155. Rule VI
         Section 6.2 grants "authority, accountability and responsibility" for "administering and
         managing... physical ..resources of the school." About 6,000 principals supervised 3,070
         new construction and 12,137 repairs -- but no one among them was reported to have
         committed an anomaly. School heads were supported with training, operation manuals and
         at least two project engineers per division. Actual payments were made by the division
         office but all payments needed the assent of the school head.
    · With a 40% reduction in per-textbook cost, TEEP overachieved and reached the ideal 1:1
         textbook-to-pupil ratio16 for about 1.7M pupils in English, Math, Science and Filipino. The


14 This chart depicts graphically that TEEP procured goods at all 3 levels: central , division -- and schools.
15 The day-to-day schedule for a school head during the 90-day TEEP construction cycle may be found in
Section 4 (National School Building Policy) of the main report.
16 Verifying the physical count of textbooks in schools remains a challenge in DepED. While the
theoretical textbook:pupil ratio is 1:1 for some divisions, there are still shortages and surpluses in many
schools. In recent years DepED has tried book exchange schemes among schools and has enlisted NGOs in



                                                    73

          procurement of textbooks was transparently honest but so efficient that it took only 12
          months (instead of the usual 24-36 months) to consummate the order. With the NGO-
          supported Textbook Count project, DepED and TEEP were able to verify the count of
          textbook deliveries at the schools themselves ­ not at the division offices, not at the district
          offices.
    · TEEP shifted the purchase of classroom furniture from the central office down to the schools
          themselves, solving many problems in one blow: how to order the right number and types of
          seats (e.g. left-handed), the use of local lumber while complying with reasonable national
          quality standards, low prices ­ and best of all, assurance of timely and verifiable physical
          delivery to the appropriate classroom.
    · The project started correctly by conducting a school mapping exercise in 1999-2000 and
          obtained credible baseline data "from the ground". Teams of young engineers were sent to all
          8,200 schools.
    · Some anomalies were discovered in the SBP and procurement components but these were
          dealt with immediately. There were 4 cases in SBP (3 irregularities in LGU-led
          construction and 1 fatally-flawed design of a division office) and a case of ghost
          deliveries in the procurement of desks. The primary anti-corruption approach of TEEP
          was transparency and the strict application of 3 sets of procurement rules: Philippines,
          World Bank and JBIC. When anomalies were discovered, fund releases were withheld
          and/or the entire component for the division was suspended.
    · TEEP was diligent in booking TEEP inputs, once delivered to DepED, as government assets.
    · The "School Innovation and Improvement Facility (SIIF) delivery system" was
          comprehensive and innovative. It had a "division window" which allowed divisions to fund
          innovation projects in individual schools based on school proposals. It also had a "national
          window" to fund innovations at the national level. It addressed both the "supply-side" and
          the "demand side" (i.e. direct aid to students or school-community partnerships).
    · One of the most important innovations developed in TEEP was the Adopt-a-Child Trust
          Fund (ACTF)17. This is an endowment fund (therefore sustainable) maintained by a school-
          community partnership, not a school and not an LGU either. It earned the approval of both
          COA and the Securities and Exchange Commmission. It is a very natural venue for resource
          generation by TEEP schools.
    · TEEP attempted and partly succeeded in cultivating the use of data and information at the
          level of schools and division offices. Its central project database collected school-by-school
          data on all TEEP inputs18 (except finance). It also developed a custom-made MIS software
          package for schools.
    · The charts below show the rate of annual disbursements over the 8.5-year implementation
          period. For both JBIC and WB disbursements, the 2-year surge in 2002 and 2003 is very
          obvious.



verifying physical deliveries in schools. In Section 5 of the main report, the Review recommends that the
physical distribution of textbooks be bid separately from printing and manuscript writing. Efficient book
printers/ publishers are not necessarily good physical distributors to schools.
17 For details, please see the Main Report, a separate volume of this Final Report.
18 The central TEEP project database is anchored on the master list of schools but finance was tabulated
separately. The finance database was organized along divisions and disbursement categories. TEEP did not
deliberately track or estimate the monetary value of inputs to individual schools. Because of this, the JBIC
review could only impute a universal "implied average TEEP disbursement per school". To enable a
detailed analysis of school funding versus school outcomes, future DepED projects should track the
monetary value of inputs to individual schools.



                                                     74

Figure ES-8A: Annual Drawdowns From The JBIC Loan, In MILLION YEN.


                      ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS FROM JBIC LOAN


   2,500

                                                        2,036

   2,000

                                                                  1,592
                                                                         1,497
                                             1,538                              1,422
   1,500



   1,000


                                   457
     500                 299
               208
                                              300

         0
                1          2       3       4       5    6        7       8       9
             1998       1999      2000   2001    2002  2003    2004    2005    2006

Source: TEEP Draft PCR (July 2006)


Figure ES-8B: Annual Drawdowns From The World Bank Loan,
In Thousand Dollars.


                       ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS FROM WB LOAN


    25,000
                                                          21,613


    20,000
                                             17,940


    15,000
                                                                    12,863


                                                                            10,782
    10,000

                                        7,517

     5,000                                     4,882
                                                                         4,266

                    59             212
         -
                   1         2        3      4      5    6       7       8       9
                 1998      1999     2000   2001   2002  2003    2004   2005    2006

    Source: TEEP Draft PCR (July 2006)




                                             75

     3.1 TEEP Delivered Results at An Implied Average Cost of P 6,849 Per Pupil
         If the total disbursement of P11.5 B is spread over the 8,600 schools in TEEP, the
         implied average disbursement per school is about P 1.3M over the 8.5-year period. If the
         P11.5B is spread over the 1.7M total enrolment, the implied average disbursement is only
         P6,84919 per pupil.

4.0TEEP WAS THELARGEST HUMANRESOURCEDEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN DEPED

      · TEEP training reached about 200 persons at the central office, 500 organic and project-
         hired staff in division offices (including all superintendents, education supervisors and
         finance officers), all 8,600 school heads and all 54,000 teachers. About 81% of teacher
         training was initiated by schools themselves.
      · TEEP decentralized much of project management to the division offices but provided
         formal and informal training, operations manuals, and support personnel ( typically one
         TEEP Division Adviser, 2-10 engineers depending on the size of the division and 2
         bookkeepers per division).
      · At the central office, from 2001 onwards TEEP was led by consultants which
         successfully used private sector management processes in the project.
      · The project implementation team introduced a Human Resources Council. Terms of
         reference for all positions in the project, including consultants and TDAs, were reviewed.
         Expectations were made explicit, targets and deadlines were agreed on, quantitative and
         qualitative rating systems were used. The Human Resource Council applied a corporate-
         type carrots and sticks approach instead of the usual government civil service personnel
         evaluation system.
      · At the end of the day, TEEP had effected many changes:
              It transformed the mindsets of those who participated in the reform experiment;
              It proved the immense wisdom of trusting school heads and teachers.
              It awakened and mobilized parents, communities, and local officials to invest
              time, energy and resources in their schools' mission. It instilled the self-belief that
              they hold a big part of the fate of the schools in their hands, that they are part of the
              solution instead of part of the problem.
              It developed leaders at all levels of the organization and across functions with
              the capacity to manage change.

5.0 FACTORS WHICH LED TO THE SUCCESS OF TEEP

     From January 1998 to December 2000, TEEP started rather slowly. The surge in TEEP
     accomplishments started after project restructuring in mid-2001 and it came as a confluence
     of several factors/events:
     1. The takeover of a decisive and reform-minded Secretary with political will and the full
         political backing of the President and Congress (at least during the 2 years he was in
         position).
     2. The full administrative support of a reform-minded Undersecretary.




19 Based on the draft TEEP PCR as of July 28, 2006, total project disbursements over 8.5 years (January
1998 to June 2006) amounted to P 11,504,368,000. Based on the BEIS 2003-04, there were 1,679,661
pupils in TEEP ­ thus implying an average of P 6,849 project disbursement per pupil. On a per year basis,
this translates to P 806 per pupil.



                                                   76

    3. The subsequent appointment of a results-oriented consulting team with extensive
        experience in management and proven success in managing billion-pesos projects, a
        finance consultant very familiar with both regular government bureaucratic and fiscal
        autonomy rules, and a visionary and respected education consultant.
    4. The appointment of a reform-minded and dynamic Deputy Project Manager from the
        BEE to serve as the day-to-day leader.
    5. The project restructuring in mid-2001 which allowed the project to formally implement
        the innovations of the new leadership and recommendations of the TEEP Mid-Term
        Review.
    6. The principal-led school building construction mode. Primarily intended to speed up
        construction, this innovation set the stage for significant changes. In the first place, it did
        speed up construction: 1,000 classrooms in 6 months and another thousand in the next 6
        months alone. It boosted the confidence of school heads and raised their stature in the
        eyes of the teachers and the community. This in turn energized school-LGU/community
        partnerships and encouraged their wider involvement in improving school outcomes. All
        these made it easier to implement school-based management.
    7. The unequivocal legal policy cover provided by RA 9155 and its IRR. The law provided
        the impetus and TEEP provided the resources for decentralization to division offices and
        eventually to school-based management.
    8. The continuity in policy from 2001 to 2006 (in spite of the change of slogan) from
        "School-based Management" under Secretaries Roco and De Jesus to "Schools First
        Initiative" under Secretary Abad and OIC Secretary Hidalgo.
    9. Within TEEP management, the resolution of an internal debate on the scale of SBM
        implementation in favor of phased expansion beyond 388 pilot leader schools to all of the
        8,600 schools in TEEP.
    10. The advocacy and encouragement of the donor/lender banks for a much speedier
        decentralization of education in TEEP.
    11. Building on the achievements of past projects (e.g. PROBE), opportunities (e.g. the
        BEE/Ateneo Math Teacher Lesson Guides), and active cooperation with other DepED
        projects (e.g. SEMP). In proposing project structuring in mid-2001, TEEP in effect built
        on the results of the TEEP Midterm Review and the ADB TA on Decentralization.

All the above contributed to the success of TEEP but it is difficult to single out one factor as the
most significant.

    5.1 Significant Explanatory Variables from Regression

        Regression analysis highlights the significant effects of the following non-cognitive
        predictors on the change in NAT rankings from 2002-03 to 2004-05.
        1. being a fully operational School-Based Management (SBM) school, I.E. belonging to
            one of the first two batches of schools that managed SBM funds;
        2. having received a School Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIF) grant that
            requires 10% equity from the community;
        3. number of new and repaired classrooms per student;
        4. number of new textbooks per student;




                                                 77

         5. teacher training20 ( the percentage of teachers in the division who attended more than
              five training modules)
         6. division (or variance due to the particularities of divisions) and
         7. initial MPS or rank of the school.

         In the regression, four factors were robust predictors: textbooks per student, classrooms
         per student, having received an SIIF grant and training. The no. of school furniture was
         not a significant explanatory variable. It is difficult to declare one factor as more
         important than another21. The above predictors accounted for 49% of the variance in
         the improvement or decline in NAT ranking for the period.

    5.2 STRATEGIES EMPLOYED BY TEEP DURING ITS EVOLUTION
         The project evolved over the 8.5-year implementation period. As abstracted by the
         Review Team, TEEP may be seen to have employed the following strategies:
         1. Among the many school divisions in the country, it targeted the poorest provinces.
         2. Phased targeting within the project: it focused initially on a subset of schools (about
              390 elementary leader schools or ELS) but in phases, it eventually targeted all
              schools in the division.
         3. The focus on equity considerations. Among the many schools within TEEP
              provinces, it targeted "disadvantaged schools", i.e. the multigrade and/or incomplete
              schools (MGIS)22 and those with significant indigenous populations (IP). Indeed
              TEEP made sure that the ELS already included some disadvantaged schools among
              them.
         4. Provision of a comprehensive package of inputs to schools: classrooms (both repairs
              and new construction), desks, textbooks, instructional materials, kits and other goods,
              training for teachers and education managers, grants for school innovation projects,
              etc.
         5. Adoption of school-based management (SBM) as the integrating framework for all
              the inputs.
         6. Substantial decentralization of project management to the division offices and
              transforming them into enterprise units.
         7. Provision of excellent support and technical services: management, consultancy
              services ( architectural/engineering, logistics, finance, education, data management,
              communication, etc), and policy studies.

    5.3 From a New Set of Realities to A New Set of Possibilities

         The 23 provinces are poor and they have the profile to show for it: many of their
         municipalities are poor ( 5th or 6th class) and many of their schools are disadvantaged (i.e.



20 "Percentage of teachers receiving more than 5 training" was only a proxy variable. The Review would
have preferred to use the average no. of hours per teacher per subject and the average cost of training per
teacher per subject in each school but these were not available.
21 Apart from the variance in the dependent variable attributed to each one of them, which is relatively low
compared to the differences across divisions and the starting MPS or rank, the available measures of these
factors are far from ideal.
22 Public elementary schools may be classified into 2 separate groups: the complete monograde schools on
the one hand and all other schools on the other hand. The "all other schools" are precisely the multigrade
schools and/or incomplete schools (MGIS). As a general rule, the MGIS are smaller and their school heads
are only Teachers-in-charge.



                                                    78

         multigrade and/or incomplete). Indeed more than half (52%) of TEEP schools are MGIS
         ­ compared to the national average of 42% and only 24% in non-poor Pampanga+.

Table ES-7: The Number And Percentage Of Multigrade And/Or Incomplete
Schools (MGIS) In Each Group Of Provinces.


                           COMPLETE     MULTIGRADE                    COMPLETE    MULTIGRADE
 DIVISION                MONOGRADE         AND/OR        TOTAL      MONOGRADE        AND/OR      TOTAL
                           SCHOOLS      INCOMPLETE                                 INCOMPLETE
                                          SCHOOLS                     SCHOOLS       SCHOOLS

 TEEP                        3,954             4,241        8,195         48%            52%      100%

 ARMM                        693               1,266        1,959         35%            65%      100%

 AKLAN+                      1,471             1,869        3,340         44%            56%      100%

 CAGAYAN+                    4,901             3,828        8,729         56%            44%      100%

 ILOILO+                     2,575             1,711        4,286         60%            40%      100%

 PAMPANGA+                   7,558             2,448       10,006         76%            24%      100%

 NCR                         490                  12         502          98%             2%      100%

 GRAND TOTAL                21,642            15,375       37,017         58%            42%      100%
         Source: BEIS 2003-04




Figure ES-9: For Each Province Group, The No. Of Complete monograde
Schools Versus The No. Of Multigrade And/Or Incomplete Schools23.

                          NO. OF COMPLETE MONOGRADE SCHOOLS VERSUS MGIS


  8,000                                                                   7,558

  7,000

  6,000

                                                  4,901
  5,000         4,241
           3,954                                       3,828                                        Series1
  4,000
                                                                                                    Series2

  3,000                                                       2,575            2,448

                                         1,869
  2,000                                                           1,711
                             1,266   1,471

  1,000                  693
                                                                                       490
                                                                                          12
      0
             TEEP          ARMM      AKLAN+      CAGAYAN+      ILOILO+  PAMPANGA+       NCR


Source: BEIS++.




23 Among the province groups, TEEP has the largest number (4,241) of multigrade and/or incomplete
schools. As a percentage of schools in the province group, however, ARMM (65% of its schools are MGIS)
and Aklan+ (56% of its schools are MGIS) are in worse situations. The percentage of MGIS is an indicator
of how "disadvantaged" a province group is.



                                                    79

Thirty five (35%) of TEEP municipalities are poor (i.e. 5th or 6th class) ­ compared to the national
average of only 14%.

                Table ES-8: By Province Group, Percentage Of Municipalities
                And Cities Which Are 5th And 6th Class.

                                        MUNICIPALITY/ CITY CLASSIFICATIONS

                PROVINCE             1st and    3rd and    5th and
                                                                            NO
                GROUPS                  2nd          4th       6th     CLASSIF     Total
                                    CLASS       CLASS      CLASS
                TEEP                   10%         54%        35%           2%    100%
                ARMM                     6%        28%        16%         50%     100%
                AKLAN+                 10%         49%        38%           3%    100%
                CAGAYAN+               20%         47%        32%           1%    100%
                ILOILO+                22%         61%        15%           1%    100%
                PAMPANGA+              33%         46%        20%           1%    100%
                NCR                   100%          0%         0%           0%    100%
                Total                  11%          9%        14%           5%    100%
                Source: U.P. School Of Economics

        In July 2001, two thousand principals were assembled in Manila to start training on an
        innovation called "principal-led construction". It was an innovation never tried before.
        For many of these school heads it could have been their first visit to historic Manila
        Hotel. It would have been a memorable event for them to see and listen to then new
        President of the Philippines and new Secretary of Education. To the school heads, the
        "Third Elementary Education Project" must have seemed to be a mere slogan ­ and
        indeed it could have been the first time they ever heard of it.

        Yet in 2 weeks they completed their training and they returned to their schools with a
        virtual hope chest. Within 6 months, a thousand classrooms had risen in their school
        grounds and in 6 more months, a second thousand rose. Each classroom, whether brand-
        new or merely repaired, came with plumbing and electrical works, looked good as new
        and stood resplendent with a new coat of paint. Textbooks, school furniture, school kits,
        other materials also arrived. Teachers soon got called to training ­ and in time they were
        even allowed to organize training for themselves. Suddenly, for the pupils, school head,
        teachers, their parents and the local executives, TEEP was more than just a slogan.

        The secret of the TEEP story is a simple one. Its success has been anchored on faith in
        the capacity of the school head, the teachers and the community ­ with a bit of help from
        the division and central office -- to turn their situation around. The trust which TEEP
        gave to the people on the ground was easily earned.

        From a state of helplessness or apathy, TEEP moved 8,600 school heads, 54,000 teachers,
        about 1.7M pupils, about 3.0M parents and 700 LGU officials to a set of new realities.
        Even better, they awoke to a new set of possibilities.




                                                 80

6.0 RECOMMENDATIONS

    6.1 Specific Recommendations for the 23 Provinces
        As a project, TEEP ended on June 30 2006 but the 23 provinces should maintain their
        momentum and institutionalize the gains made under TEEP. Since DepED would most
        likely have to concentrate on the other poor provinces, notably ARMM, Aklan+ and
        Cagayan+, for the few years, the 23 provinces will have to do most of the work on
        their own. Without the usual support from a CPISU, the 23 will now have to build on
        the management processes, operations manuals, skills and confidence which TEEP has
        given them.

    To sustain the gains under TEEP, the 23 provinces should continue to:
        1. Focus support on multigrade and/or incomplete schools and IP-dominated schools to
            spread the success of TEEP more evenly within the divisions.
        2. Refine and continue the full implementation of SBM to all 8,600 schools.
        3. Maintain/enhance school-community partnerships, involve the community more
            without surrendering their academic integrity, and of course raise more resources.
        4. Implement the Accreditation Program for Public Elementary Schools (APPES).
        5. Increase their teaching pools (especially in MGIS schools) with volunteer teachers,
            e.g. the Gurong Pahinungod of U.P., Jesuit Volunteers, Philippine Association of
            Volunteer Efforts, etc.
        6. Institutionalize the "matrix organization" of the division office which served them
            well during the TEEP years. Each education supervisor will now have the usual
            subject area assignment but in addition would also deal with at least one other
            division concern such as training, advocacy, civil works, M & E, finance, etc. Each
            District Supervisor will have to fulfill his/her role as instructional leader.
        7. Continue to innovate in classroom processes, e.g. eradicating illiteracy and
            innumeracy in the classroom, developing authentic assessment, experimenting with
            the medium of instruction in the early grades, honing the skills of students in science
            and math.
        8. Train teachers on both content and pedagogy, ensure the application of INSET
            benefits into classroom teaching, and keep track of the volume and cost of training
            per teacher per subject so that the value of training in increasing school achievement
            levels can be measured statistically.
        9. Localize teaching materials for the benefit especially of indigenous populations.
        10. Maintain the network of the 23 divisions even after the end of TEEP. Although
            each division may go on its own, there will be synergy in continuing the teamwork
            which the 23 divisions have built over the past 8.5 years.

To paraphrase Robert Frost, the 23 provinces have many more miles to go and promises to
keep...

For more detailed recommendations, please see Section 3 ("Next Steps") of the main report.

    6.2 Estimating the Cost of Follow-Up "TEEP-Type" Projects In Future

        How much would follow-up TEEP-type project/s cost for the other poor provinces?
        Based on the implied TEEP project allocation of P 6,849 per pupil, the total cost per
        province group is shown below. (Spread over 8.5 years, this translates to about P 806 per




                                                81

         pupil per year). The estimated project allocation for ARMM is P 4.1B, for Aklan+ P5.5B
         ­ and for the much larger group Cagayan+ P16.8B.24.

         Table ES-9: Estimated Cost Of Follow-Up Projects For Different Groups Of
         Provinces (In Million Pesos)

                                                                                               ESTIMATED
 POVERTY GROUP                      TOTAL                Total      ENROLMENT
                                 SCHOOLS             Teachers                2003-04       PROJECT COST
                                                                                                  (M PESOS)


 TEEP                                   8,195           54,449              1,679,661                  2,531

 ARMM                                   1,959           13,531                548,766                  4,134

 AKLAN+                                 3,340           21,856                730,002                  5,500

 CAGAYAN+                               8,729           67,813              2,233,952                 16,831

 ILOILO+                                4,286           35,877              1,202,632                  4,530

 PAMPANGA+                             10,006         127,150               4,529,304

 NCR                                      502           27,218              1,132,082

 GRAND TOTAL                           37,017         347,894             12,056,399                  33,527


The estimates above are based on the following assumptions:
    · The follow-up projects will apply only to the poor provinces. Because they are "non-
         poor" no estimates were made for Pampanga+ and NCR.
    · To sustain the momentum of the original TEEP provinces, the Review Team
         recommends they still should be eligible in the follow-up project but to a lesser degree,
         e.g. 1/5 of the per-pupil share of ARMM, Aklan+ and Cagayan+. This translates to P
         2.5B to sustain and build on the success of TEEP in the 23 provinces. Regular
         monitoring and evaluation should be institutionalized so there could be a "post-
         TEEP project review", say in 2009-10, to see how the 23 provinces have fared three
         years after project closing.
    · The provinces in Iloilo+, since they are deemed "less poor" than the others, may be
         considered eligible too but to a lesser degree, e.g. 1/2 of the per-pupil share of ARMM,
         Aklan+ and Cagayan+.
    · A cost escalation factor of 10% between TEEP and the follow-up project.

These project/s need not be funded from just one source. Different sources (donors and/or
lenders) could divide the groups above. Within the same geographical area, some inputs (e.g. civil
works) could be phased ahead of other components.

The implied investment of only P 806 per pupil per year seems very affordable but the success
of TEEP is really due mostly to how the money was spent and how the project was implemented.



24 These were computed based on the implied P 6,849 TEEP disbursement per pupil after applying a 10%
cost escalation factor. This of course assumes that the follow-up project/s would be as efficient was TEEP
was.



                                                     82

To implement any follow-up project/s and obtain "TEEP-type" results, the following factors are
necessary:
    1. The firm leadership and commitment of a reform-minded Secretary of Education.
    2. The full administrative support of a reform-minded Undersecretary.
    3. Project leader/s chosen from organic personnel with proven track records in TEEP, e.g.
       some high-performing superintendent/s.
    4. A team of consultants with the correct mix of qualities and skills: vision for and
       knowledge of basic education, leadership or ability to command authority, strategic
       thinking, communication skills, acumen for human relations, specialized technical
       expertise, professional integrity, and organizing skills for large scale mobilization.
    5. A lead consultant with demonstrated competencies in implementing multi-component
       projects with the complexity, scale and scope of TEEP.              Successful management
       experience is a must.
    6. The pro-active involvement of donor/lender banks. For instance, regular "bank missions"
       (whether annual or semestral) provided project managers the opportunity to pause and
       reflect, to be more accountable.
    7. The appointment of a "Council of Elders" consisting of eminent persons who can provide
       advice, direction and general strategies.


7.0 MAJOR POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DEPED

       DepED should prioritize program support to the disadvantaged schools, i.e.
       multigrade and/or incomplete schools and those with substantial indigenous
       populations. Please see proposed framework at the end of this executive summary.

    The department should reconceptualize multigrade teaching and recognize it as a
       distinct, potentially effective and viable mode in and by itself. It is necessary to shift
           from a linear model of development that considers multigrade teaching as a mere
           transition to monograde teaching
           to a model where the multigrade and monograde teaching are deemed as alternative
           and parallel modes.

       With 42% of all schools in the country (52% in TEEP) being multigrade and/or
       incomplete, DepEd would have to acknowledge that multigrade teaching is here to stay
       for years or decades to come. It is not a temporary situation. DepED should institute a
       distinct career track and encourage the good teachers to stay in multigrade. Indeed,
       modern teaching methods are in effect variations of multigrade teaching.

       DepED should formally adopt school-based management via a DepED order.

       Expand the implementation of SBM, initially by self-selection, among regions,
       divisions, and schools.

8.0 SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DEPED

    Further details of the following recommendations and the lessons from TEEP which
    prompted them may be found in Sections 3-8 of the Integrated Report (a separate volume).




                                                83

    8.1 Adopt a National School Building Policy

        DepEd will have to orchestrate and optimize the use of the pool of school building funds
        from all sources, public and private.

Figure ES-10: Chart Depicting All School Building Funds Going Into Public Elementary
        Schools.


          The virtual "NATIONAL SCHOOL
                    BUILDING FUND"                         PROJECTS
                                                          (e.g. TEEP P 7.1B)



                    GAA SBP
              ( P 2.0 B per year)                                                SEF/

                                              CLASSROOMS/                        LGUs
                                                BUILDINGS

                CONGRESS CDF
                                                                            INT'L
                                                                           DONORS
                                                                           (e.g. JICA)
                 PRIVATE SECTOR
                    (e.g. FIL-CHI)


               NOTE: DepED need not hold all SBP funds but must orchestrate their use.

               REVISED JUN 30 2006          TXR INTEGRATED
                                             PRESENTATION



The following are the features of the proposed National School Building Policy (NSBP). Based
on lessons learned from TEEP, DepED should

    · Estimate the total of funds from all sources which go into school building programs.
        Without trying to physically pool these funds, DepED should draw up a prioritized
        school-by-school list for repairs and new construction.
    · Conduct a credible national school mapping exercise in partnership with professional
        architect and engineering societies and/or state universities and colleges. From this
        publish and disseminate in print a National School Mapping Databook to serve as the
        authoritative data source on schools both for needed repairs and new construction.
    · Adopt a DepED Catalog of Standard Classroom Designs from which all builders,
        including donors, have to choose.




                                                84

    · Regardless of the source of funds, public or private, all school building projects
         (including those administered by DPWH and LGUs) should involve the school head25
         or a team led by the school head.
    · Implement a prioritization scheme which is not based simply on pro-rata considerations.
         In particular, give higher priority to disadvantaged schools especially those in 5th and 6th
         class municipalities.
    · Where LGU counterpart funding is required, implement a sliding scale as in:

    TableES-10:AProposedSlidingScale26 ForLGUCounterpartFundingIn SBP.

                                            Propose equity or           Equity required for
         Municipality class             counterpart funding by            multigrade and/or
                                    LGU (complete monograde              incomplete schools
                                                 schools)
            5th and 6th class                      5%                           2.5%
            3rd and 4th class                     10%                           7.5%
                 2nd class                        15%                           12.5%
                 1st class                        20%                            15%

    8.2 Improve the National Standardized Test
         Institutionalize a national assessment test, i.e. implement "a new and improved NAT" to
         measure learning outcomes in the schools of the country.

    8.3 Continue to Implement the APPES
         Continue the implementation of the Accreditation Program for Public Elementary
         Schools. The 23 provinces can lead in this activity.

    8.4 Cultivate a Culture of Using Data and Information
         · Adopt the policy of transparency through data and information
              sharing to promote goodwill, cooperation, rationality and resource
              generation:
         · Within DepED (different levels in the DepED hierarchy, among the
              central offices)
         · Between DepED and other agencies (e.g. Congress, DBM, LGUs,
              international/foreign donors, NGOs, etc.)
         · Between a school and its community partners, i.e. the PTCA, the
              barangay, the LGU, major donors.
         · Adopt a DepED Basic Education Data Element Manual to standardize
              terminology, definitions (consistent with EFA), classification, counting rules,
              formulas, and interpretations of both raw data and computed data.
         · Adopt a standard DepEd School Planning Databook cum School Report Card
              suitable for a school or school cluster. (See cascade format below which is useful for
              tracing the progress of 3 cohorts of pupils in a school).



25 In recognition of the success of principal-led construction in TEEP, DepED issued Memo 252 on July
4, 2006 instructing its Physical Facilities and Schools Engineering Division (PFSED) to use the "Principal-
led School Building Program".
26 The percentages shown are mainly for illustration purposes only. The primary recommendation is to
adopt a "sliding scale" based on school type and municipality class.



                                                     85

     · Conduct advocacy and training among school heads to convince them that the school
        is the primary source but it is also the primary user of the data which it collects.

     Table ES-11: Proposed "Cascade Format" For Use In Computing Some School
     Performance Indicators.
                                   1998-      1999-     2000-       2001-      2002-   2003-    2004-     2005-
       HEADCOUNTS                      99         00         01         02        03       04       05      06
       GRADE 1                         30         45         35
       GRADE 2                                    20         34         29
       GRADE 3                                               19         25        24
       GRADE 4                                                          17        20       21
       GRADE 5                                                                    16       22       18
       GRADE 6                                                                             15       16      13
       GRADUATES                                                                           14       11      12

     · Adopt a standard DepEd Division Planning Databook suitable for a division office.
         Include graphs and charts which are appropriate to division planning and operations
         For example, see figure below:

Figure ES-11: Proposed Table For Division Planning Databook Showing For Each Age
Group, Enrolment In Public Schools, Private Schools And No. Of Out-Of-School Youth.

                                 BY AGE GROUP, ENROLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
                                                   AS OF AUG 31, 2005



  18,000



  16,000



  14,000



  12,000



  10,000
                                                                                                               Series3
                                                                                                               Series2

  8,000                                                                                                        Series1
         15,300

                  12,159
  6,000
                          10,057
                                        8,896
  4,000                                           8,000      7,155     6,720
                                                                                          5,700    5,650
                                                                                  4,740
  2,000



      0
          AGE 6    AGE 7    AGE 8      AGE 9     AGE 10     AGE 11     AGE 12    AGE 13   AGE 14   AGE 15

     · Adopt a standard Division Education Development Plan (DEDP) template.
     · Upgrade the BEIS, its content and technological framework.
     · In recognition of Filipino culture and level of computer availability, DepED should
        distribute data and information also in print, not just electronic form.
     · To improve credibility of all DepED data, display in time series format: to expose
        gaps (missing or incomplete data) or possible errors (e.g. sudden dip or increase), to
        reveal general time trend (or absence of a trend), and to facilitate projections.



                                                    86

       · DepED/ NETRC should provide printouts of NAT results in the "Least Learned
            Skills" format to each school as shown below. This format has served TEEP very
            well.

       Table ES-12: Table Showing Least Learned Skills In Each School.


                                                                         SEC            )SE          CES

      COMPETENCY AREA: GRADE 4 READING                                      L                                        SE
                          COMPREHENSION                                                    UZ           BATO           OC
                              NAT 2002-03                                    ZAIR            CR
                                                                                 ESOJ                                    CHI
                                                                                               STA
                                                                                                            PULANG


 NO. OF EXAMINEES                                                      82             11           50              20

 READING COMPREHENSION: GRADE 4

  13. Decodes meaning of unfamiliar words through context clues       38%             25%          18%             75%


  14. Notes significant details that relate to the central theme      30%             13%          25%             25%

  15. Gets the main idea that is explicit                             25%             42%          25%             0%


  16. Identifies the appropriate title for a selection                25%             6%           60%             25%


  17. Sequences the major events in a selection                       29%             13%          36%             67%


  18. Identifies cause-effect relationship in a paragraph/passage     44%             25%          20%             13%


  19. Identifies an appropriate ending to a given situation           41%             19%          39%             50%

  20. Infers character trait                                          48%             17%          14%             11%


  21. Draws conclusion based on information given                     60%             38%          18%             50%


  22. Distinguishes between facts and opinions                        30%             19%          18%             25%
       Data source is the NETRC.



   8.5 Procurement of Textbooks and Desks
       The success of TEEP schools in Math is most probably explained by the distribution of
       the BEE/Ateneo Math Lesson Guide series. TEEP printed the series out and gave a copy
       to each of its 54,000 teachers. That series, along with many other lessons from TEEP,
       have prompted the following recommendations:
       · Implement the "universal title policy"27 for textbooks. Each elementary school in
            the Philippines should use the same set of textbooks and teacher guides.


27 DepED Memorandum No. 289 (July 7 2004) titled "Textbook Policy".



                                                    87

    · Procure a textbook series for each subject, not individual book titles. For instance,
        English 1,2,3,4,5,6 series.
    · Unbundle the procurement process of textbook series into 3 phases: manuscript
        writing, printing and physical distribution. This will solve many problems with
        regard textbooks: poor quality of the writing, poor physical qualities of the resulting
        book, and problematic physical distribution to schools ( not district offices, not
        division offices).
    · Institutionalize the procurement of school desks and furniture at the school level. The
        graph below shows that 31% of school furniture (mostly desks and chairs) in TEEP
        was purchased by schools.


Figure ES-12: The No. Of Pieces Of School Furniture Procured In TEEP, By Level ­
CPISU-Procured, DPISU-Procured And School-Purchased.


                 SCHOOL FURNITURE PURCHASED BY LEVEL




                BY SCHOOLS,
                 163,380, 31%



                                                                     BY CPISU,

                     BY DPISU,                                     301,691 , 58%

                    55,317 , 11%




8.6 Recommendations on Finance
    8.6.1   DepEd should adopt the policy of "responsibility, accountability, and
            transparency in fund generation and total fund management at all levels of
            the organization." In short, each DepED school, division, regional office and
            the national office itself should account for all funds which go to the schools
            in their jurisdiction.

            The department should account for all public and private funds, loans and grants,
            locally and internationally sourced funds. To facilitate aggregation and analysis,
            fund sources should be classified in a standard way as shown below.
            Expenditures from the SEF are separated from LGU non-SEF contributions to
            acknowledge the special generosity of some LGUs.




                                           88

Table ES-13: Proposed Standard Classification Of DepEd Funding From All Sources.


  FUNDING SOURCE                  PS    MOOE    CAPITAL                                 %
                                                OUTLAY     UNCLASSIFIED   TOTAL      SHARE

  GAA

  DPWH-ADMINISTERED SBP

  CONGRESSIONAL CDF

  INTERNATIONAL GRANTS


  LOAN-FUNDED PROJECTS

  SEF

  LGUs ( NON-SEF)

  PTCAs

  NGOs
  SCHOOL    CANTEENS     and
  FUND-RAISING
  OTHER PRIVATE SOURCES

  TOTAL




  8.6.2   In the allocation of funds (whether public or private but especially public
          funds) DepEd should apply a dual equity-excellence principle:
          · Focus on equity, i.e. give priority to disadvantaged schools (multigrade
             and/or incomplete schools, those with significant indigenous populations,
             those headed only by Teachers-in-Charge and those located in 5th and 6th
             class municipalities). Allocations to such schools cannot simply be in
             proportion to enrolment and/or teacher counts.
          · Reward for school achievement based on targets and agreed performance
            indicators, e.g. accreditation level under the APPES,       MPS in standard
            national tests, improvement in MPS between years, national rank in the NAT,
            improvement in NAT rank between years, zero non-readers and zero non-
            numerates, increase in participation rates, decrease in dropout rates, etc. The
            targets should be set jointly by the school and the division during the
            formulation of SIP/AIPs.

  8.6.3   DepEd should conduct a study to determine the "normative cost per public
          elementary pupil" and use this to obtain more realistic allocations from the
          GAA.     The normative cost answers the question: how much ought the
          government allocate by way of PS, MOOE and CO for each elementary pupil
          each year?
  8.6.4   DepED should adopt Work and Financial Planning plus mid-year financial
          reviews. This will allow DepED to see how division allocations and cash are
          being spent ­ or why they are not being spent.




                                         89

SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS WITH REGARD TO MOOE FOR SCHOOLS:

        8.6.5     In the light of the TEEP experience, DepED should drill down MOOE28 to
                  elementary schools in full and in cash. It is not enough to drill down MOOE in
                  kind. TEEP proved that school heads could be trusted to handle MOOE in cash,
                  use this in support of the school's Annual Implementation Plan and then go
                  through the government liquidation process. This show of trust boosts their
                  confidence and enhances their stature among the teachers and within the
                  community.
        8.6.6     To instill confidence between principals on the one hand and higher DepED
                  officials on the other, the DepED central office and division offices must
                  implement a transparency policy in MOOE allocations. The formulas,
                  guidelines, the base data and the resulting allocations per school should be
                  distributed in print for everybody to see.

RECOMMENDATIONS ON MOBILIZING RESOURCES BY SCHOOLS:

        Figure ES-13 Diagram Showing Sources Of Funds Which Go Into A School.


         THE VIRTUAL "TOTAL                                    PROJECTS
                                                            (e.g. TEEP, CFSS)
        SCHOOL FUND" (VTSF)
                                                                                     SEF
                                                                                   Municipal
            GAA MOOE                                                               Provincial
             (via division)

                                            In support of                        LGU
                                               SIP/AIP

          CANTEEN/ IGP
                                                                          BARANGAY


                PTCA                          OTHERS
                                                                               INT'L
                                                                              DONORS

           NOTE: Principal does not hold all funds but must plan for all of them.




28 In July 2004, DepED issued a memo describing the process of allocating additional MOOE to each
school. It was a pioneering step but it allowed allocations "in cash or in kind". In TEEP, 6 out of the 23
divisions allocated their MOOE (both the additional and the regular GAA MOOE) to schools in cash. Most
schools in TEEP received cash in the form of SBM school cash grants, not MOOE. It is not known how
many of the non-TEEP divisions drilled down MOOE in cash to elementary schools. Resource persons
have indicated that DepED will soon require drilling down MOOE to elementary schools in cash.



                                                    90

         8.6.7   Each school should establish a school-community partnership and raise
                 more resources on its own, e.g. from the SEF, income-generating projects
                 and private donations.

        8.6.8    In return, the school should be transparent with the community, giving
                 regular feedback to the PTCA, e.g. through the School Report Card (already
                 developed under TEEP) and rendering a report on the Virtual Total School Fund
                 (VTSF). See Figure E-8 and Table E-6.

    Table ES-14: Table Showing The "Virtual Total School Fund" (Per Year)29 Of A
    Sample Of Schools In Antique During The TEEP Years (i.e 2000-01 To 2004-05).

                                          AVERAGE PER YEAR DURING 2000-2001 to 2004-2005

           District/School                 LGU                                 Others
                                                SBP     Barangay    PTCA      (Private)  TOTAL
                                     SEF       Equity

     Casay ES                          500           -     3,000   107,360     48,000   158,860

     Iba ES                               -          -       400    14,427        420    15,247

     Tagaytay PS                          -          -         -     4,000            -   4,000

     Magtulis ES                          -    26,537          -     1,000            -  27,537

     Mayos ES                             -          -     1,000       184            -   1,184

     Jinalinan-Paliwan ES                 -    25,000        300     1,000        400    26,700

     Yapu ES                         3,000           -       200       300        200     3,700
     Harigue ES                           -          -         -          -           -        -
     Hininga-an ES                        -          -         -          -           -        -

     Camancijan ES                  34,800     12,000        400     6,400            -  53,600

     Carit-an ES                          -          -         -       376            -     376

     Culasi CS                      19,552           -         -          -           -  19,552

     Naba PS                              -          -     1,000     1,452      3,810     6,262

     SUBTOTAL                      57,852     63,537     6,300     136,499    52,830    317,019
        Source: Excerpts from Antique Project Completion Report (July 2006).




29 This table shows actual data reported by a small sample of schools in Antique. This can be used to
compare how much each school was able to raise before TEEP as opposed to what it raised during TEEP.
Indeed, it should be used to construct a time series and see how much is raised from each source after
TEEP. This is an example of a table which schools can or should share with their stakeholders, partly to
account for funds already received -- and partly to induce them to contribute even more. Note that some
schools have not reported amounts raised.



                                                   91

   RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE SPECIAL EDUCATION FUND (SEF).

        8.6.9     Update the Memorandum of Understanding among COA-DepEd-DILG --
                  and this time include the Union of Local Authorities of the Philippines
                  (ULAP) -- to prioritize the use of SEF funds for basic education (as opposed
                  to sports and culture) and to schools ( as opposed to administrative offices) and to
                  implement a systematic annual reporting scheme.
        8.6.10 DepED, DBM and DILG should jointly commission a study on the potential
                  capacity of the SEF, the actual collections and disbursements. The national
                  potential of the SEF is estimated to be P 14.4B30, assuming 100% collection of
                  real estate taxes. The amount collected is estimated at P9.0B per year and total
                  amount disbursed is estimated at P 7.8B ( or only 54% of P 14.4B). Compared to
                  the DepED budget of about P110B in the GAA, the disbursed SEF represents a
                  7.0% supplement.

Figure ES-14: Special Education Fund: Potential, Actual Collections, And Amounts
Disbursed (Billion Pesos Per Year).


                     SEF: POTENTIAL, COLLECTED AND DISBURSED

  16.0               14.4
  14.0

  12.0
  10.0                                           9.0                             SEF POTENTIAL
                                                                 7.8
   8.0                                                                           SEF COLLECTED

   6.0                                                                           SEF DISBURSED

   4.0
   2.0

   -
             SEF POTENTIAL              SEF COLLECTED      SEF DISBURSED


   Source: Bureau of Local Government Finance (2003).


        8.6.11 Acknowledge the special generosity of LGUs which donate to basic
                  education from their own municipal or provincial funds, not the SEF. That
                  is, disbursements from "SEF" and "LGU (non-SEF)" should be tabulated
                  separately.
        8.6.12 Build an "analyzable" database on the SEF. To begin, annual expenditures
                  from the SEF should be classified according to some standard classification as
                  proposed below.



30 Bureau of Local Government Finance (2003), as cited by fomer Usec M Luz at the Philippine
Association Of School Superintendents assembly in November 2004.



                                                      92

    Table ES-15: Proposed Standard Classification Of Disbursements Against The
    Special Education Fund.

      SEF EXPENSES FOR 1                          CAPITAL        NOT                  %
            YEAR               PS      MOOE        OUTLAY      CLASSIFIED TOTAL     SHARE
     SPORTS

     CULTURE
     ELEMENTARY
     SCHOOLS
     SECONDARY
     SCHOOLS
     REGIONAL, DIVISION
     OR DISTRICT
     OFFICES
     OTHERS

     TOTAL




RECOMMENDATIONS ON PROJECT FINANCE

    8.6.13 In future projects, the project finance staff should be attached to the regular
            DepED finance office under the direct supervision of the DepEd regular finance
            officer and not as a separate project finance unit.

    8.6.14 In future projects, the lead Finance Consultant should be experienced in regular
            government bureaucracy financial rules, more liberal government "fiscal
            autonomy" financial rules such as those enjoyed by government corporations and
            the U.P. System, and in foreign-assisted or loan-funded projects. The consultant
            should be "creative within the rules", have good relations with the regular
            DepED finance officer, DBM, COA and the banks.

    8.6.15 Future projects should design and use management reports specifically intended
            for project managers such as superintendents, bureau directors, and high officials.
            Example: TEEP COLSAC report (Cumulative Obligations and Statement of
            Expenditures Applied for and Cash received). The usual financial compliance reports
            required by DBM and COA are too technical and are not really suited for education
            managers.




                                            93

Figure ES-15: COLSAC31 (Cumulative Obligations, Liquidations, SOE Applied For And
Cash Received). Note: data shown below for illustration purposes only.

                            DIVISION COLSAC ( IN MILLION PESOS)

                                       134.6
                                                 130.0       127.5

                       140.0                                                           111.4

                       120.0                                             90.3   87.5

                       100.0

                        80.0

                        60.0

                        40.0

                        20.0

                         -
                                    S
                                TION
                            LIGA          E OBLIG

                          OB      LIQUIDABL      LIQUIDATIONN LIQUIDATION
                                                           S            S      E
                                                                             SO    CASH



                                                        LOA               FUND TYPE




The fuller treatment of lessons under specific themes and details of the recommendations may
be found in the main report, a separate volume.

9.0 CONCLUDING REMARKS

      The Team advocates collective reflection on TEEP and future reform in light of:
      · mining a complex project like TEEP for insights into factors that could facilitate or
          constrain a speedier education reform process;
      · thinking more systematically about how gains from such projects can be sustained and
          built upon to prevent the dissipation of the momentum of change; and
      · situating TEEP and other projects in a bigger map of reform measures, policies, projects
          and programs that ought to constitute an integral whole--DepEd's master plan for
          Philippine basic



31 This chart is derived from the "COLSAC" form designed by TEEP. It enables project managers (who
usually are not finance experts), e.g. the Deputy Project Manager, CPISU component heads and
superintendents, to visualize the various stages through which project funds go through from obligations all
the way to "loan drawdowns" in the case of loan-funded components. The chart also shows cash received
in relation to obligations and liquidations.



                                                            94

            Figure ES-16: Proposed Program Support Framework For DepEd

                                                                                                 Central/Regional

                                                                                                              · National education philosophy, mission, goals
                                                                                                              · National/regional education plan
                                                                                                              · National core curriculum
                                                                                                              · Standards/national assessment/national quality assurance systems
                                                                                                                  (e.g. NETRC, APPES)
                                                                                                              · National/regional professional staff development programs (e.g.
                                                                                                                  NEAP)
                                                                                                              · National Education Programs (e.g. Every Child a Reader Program or
                                                                                                                  ECARP, Child-Friendly School System or CFSS
                                                                                                              · National/regional budgetary allocations for classrooms, TXB, furniture,
                                                                                                                  etc.
                                                                                                              · National/regional BEIS/ education research                                    LGU
                                                                                                         SBM                                                                                  · Province
Division/                                                                                                                                                                                     · Municipality

District                                                                                     Priority 1: Type C schools                                                                       · Barangay
                                                    System                                   (Incomplete Schools)                                                                             · Sangguniang
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kabataaan
Field support systems                                                                        Priority 2: Type B schools                                             · resource support
· DEDP (Planning)                     ones                Evaluation                         (Complete MG/Combination)                                                SEF/IRA/equity
· organized support for SBM                                         and                                                                                               generation
                                                                                             Priority 3: Type A1 schools
· training of schoolheads                 Milest
                                                                       ringo                 (small monograde)                                                      · school-LGU
· division/district wide technical              SBM                                                                                                                   partnership
  assistance for                                                                                                                    Procedures/Processes/
                                                                            Monit            Priority 4: Type A2 schools                                            (e.g. health and nutrition,
  SBP/SBM/procurement, fund                                                                  (medium monograde)                                                     education-related
  management, etc.)                                                                                                                                                 resolutions/ordinances)   Private
· M & E                                                                          Integrated  Priority 5: Type A3 schools                                 Systems                              Sector
· school or cluster-based INSET                                                              (large monograde)                                                                                · Corporate
  support/training designs                                                                                                                                                                    · NGOs
· support for innovations (e.g.                                                              Secondary Level                                                    · resource support
  SIIF-DSF, ACTF)                                                                                                                                                                             · Civic
                                                                                                                                                                  programs (e.g.
· Support for school-based                                                                   Alternative Learning Systems                                                                       groups
                                                                                                                                                                  Adopt-a-child)
  health and nutrition programs                                                              ECE                                                                                              · Local orgs
· Information, Education,                                                                                                                                       · volunteer
  Communication, Advocacy                                                                                                                                         programs
  (social mobilization)                                                                                                                                         · school-PTCA partnership
· Networking with LGU provincial                                                                                                                                · resource support
  and Municipal Local School                                                                                                                                    · parent brigades
  Boards                                                                                     PTCA (local, federated)
                                                                                                                                                                · joint school-PTCA committees




                                                                                                            95

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports and Implementation Status
  Reports 1996-2006.
Staff Appraisal Report 15888-PH (1996).
Project Operations Manuals and Monitoring Reports.
Mid-Term Review Report of the TEEP, December, 2000.
TEEP Project Completion Reports by Division, 2006.
Philippines: Building a Case for School-Based Management. World Bank Education Policy
  Notes, 2004.
Philippines: Improving the Quality of Basic Education. World Bank Education Policy Notes,
  2004.
Philippines: Teachers Development, Recruitment, and Performance. World Bank Education
  Policy Notes, 2004.
Philippines: Raising Educational Outcomes among Poor and Disadvantaged Youths. World Bank
  Education Policy Notes, 2004.
Integrative Report on the Studies on Priority Issues in Basic Education: The Education Policy
  Research Process, Priority Policy Issues, Research Findings, and Recommendations. UP Econ
  Foundation, Inc. and DepED CPISU, June 2003.
Beginnings: Documentation of Good Practices in TEEP Provinces, 8 SIIF Projects, Vol. II.
  DepED, 2004.
Philippines: Education Policy Reform in Action - A Review of Progress since PESS and PCER.
  Joint WB, ADB Study, May 2004.
Philippine Education for the 21st Century. The 1998 Philippines Education Sector Study, ADB,
  1999.
JBIC Review of TEEP. Final Report. Aug. 2006.
Project Completion Report. Third Elementary Education Project. Department of Education,
  August 2006.
De Jesus E. "A Roadmap for Education". DepED. February 2004.
Republic of the Philippines. Educated Filipinos, An Educated Nation: National Action Plan to
  Achieve Education for All by the Year 2015 (EFA 2015), June 2005.
A Multi-Year Spending Plan for Philippine Education: Enrolment Projections and Cost
  Simulations under Alternative Growth and Reform Scenarios (Final Draft), August 2005.
Department of Education. "Schools First Initiative Strategy Document", April 2005.
Country Assistance Strategy for the Philippines, 2006-2008, The World Bank Group in the
  Philippines, 2005.
Country Strategy for the Philippines, 1996. The World Bank Group in the Philippines, 1995.
National Program Support for Basic Education. Project Appraisal Document. World Bank, 2006.
Technical Report. NSBA 2005. Third Elementary Education Project, September 2006.




                                                96

Annex 10. Additional Annex

10.1 Project Outcomes Indicators, by Division (Baseline to 2005)

Project Outcomes Indicators, by Division (Baseline to 2005)

Province                          Completion Rate                 Change in Completion Change in Rank on NAT Achievement
                                                                            Rate


                       1994-95         2002-03        2004-05           1995-2005                       2003-2005
                       (Public)


Abra                      68             69              78                 +10                            Neg.

Agusan del Sur            62             47              50                 -12                            Pos.

Antigue                   62             64              59                  -3                            Pos.

Aurora                    61             78              76                 +15                            Neg.

Basilan                   35

Batanes                   86             94              89                  +3                            Neg.

Bengeut                   74             68              70                  -4                            Pos.

Biliran                   61             67              73                 +12                            Pos.

Capiz                     61             71              56                  -5                            Neg.

Eastern Samar             62             53              91                 +29                            Pos.

Guimaras                  61             74              75                 +14                            Pos.

Ifugao                    44             61              51                 +7                             Neg.

Kalinga-Apayao            48             73              49                 +1                        Kalinga ­ Pos.

Leyte                     59             66              63                 +4                             Pos.

Maguindanao               33

Masbate                   50             51              54                 +4                             Neg.

Mt. Province              59             69              68                 +9                             Pos.

Negros Oriental           42             54              57                 +15                            Neg.

North Cotabato            60             52              57                  -3                            Pos.

Romblon                   68             70              59                  -9                            Pos.

Southern Leyte            71             90              81                 +10                            Pos.

Sulu                      33

Surigao del Sur           57             66              60                 +3                             Pos.

Tawi Tawi                 33

Zamboanga del Sur         48             61              54                 +6                             Neg.

Source: 1994-1995 completion data are from SAR (RN 15888-PH); and 2002-03 and 2004-05 data from the GoP PCR. Achievement
change-in-rank data are from the JBIC report; the precise numbers are not available, as the information is extracted from a graph
(Figure 2-8, pg.2-11). The italicizied names reflect the divisions that were dropped from the project in 1999.




                                                                   97

10.2 Endnotes

Endnotes

[1] Summarized from SAR Annexes 2, 4, and 5.

[2] The final expenditure reported in the GoP PCR is PhP11,616M. An exchange rate of
PhP52.56 to $1 is used to calculate the expenditure in USD.

[3] ARMM is a group of provinces including Basilan, Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Sulu and
Tawi Tawi.

[4] Excluding ARMM from the figure in NPSBE should show an even higher NER.

[5] The NSBA was conducted in 2000-2001 as well, but the sample did not overlap with the
latter administrations.

[6] A multi-year spending plan for Philippine education: enrolment projects and cost simulations
under alternative growth and reform scenarios (2005). Study conducted by a joint study team of
the Department of Education, the Philippine Institute for Development Studies and the World
Bank.

[7] ICR team's calculations, based on the mean and standard deviations provided in the NSBA
2005 technical report.

[8] Excluding ARMM

[9] If the estimates are accurate, the data would imply that large divisions were excluded from the
Project, averaging 6-11 age group cohorts of 127,526 each.

[10] Excluding ARMM.

[11] JBIC evaluation of TEEP (draft report as of this writing). Rank-based analysis was
conducted, rather than analysis using raw scores, as the test was administered in successive
grades each year and, therefore, the data were not directly comparable on a longitudinal basis.

[12] The JBIC report provides detailed analysis.

[13] The ICR team estimated this number based on the total cost and enrollment data provided in
the GoP PCR. The enrolment data are estimated for the 8.5 years of project duration, based on
the average of the enrolment numbers between 2003 and 2005.

[14] These are rough estimates based on the statistics reported in the GoP's PCR and the JBIC
report. The raw data were not available to the ICR team at the time of this writing.

[15] Reported by project management unit, based on information from DepEd's budget division.

[16] Summarized from SAR Annexes 2, 4, and 5.

[17] JBIC report. Survey response rate was 81 percent in Abra and 66 percent in Leyte.




                                                 98

MAP IBRD27835R




                  99

