Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15888-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
October 25, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September, 1996)
Currency Unit     =    Peso
US$1.00        =    Pesos 26
US$0.038        =    Peso 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (m)     =    3.28 Feet (ft)
I Kilometer (km)   =    0.62 Mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 Asian Development Bank
AUSAID              Australian Agency for International Development
AWPB                Annual Work Program and Budget
BEE                 Bureau of Elementary Education
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
COA                 Commission on Audit
DECS                Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DECS-CO             Central Office of DECS
DECS-RO             Regional Office of DECS
DECS-DO             Divisional Office of DECS
DEDP                Divisional Elementary Education Development Plan
DoF                 Department of Finance
GoP                 Government of the Philippines
INSET               In-Service Training
LGU                 Local Government Unit
MIS                 Management Information System
MOOE                Maintenance and Other Operating Expenditures
NEDA                National Economic and Development Agency
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
OECF                Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PISU                Project Implementation Support Unit
PRODED              Program for Decentralized Elementary Education
PTA                 Parent-Teacher Association
PY                  Project Year
SEF                 Special Education Fund
SIIF                School Improvement and Innovation Facility
SRA                 Social Reform Agenda
SUC                 State Universities and Colleges
TEI                 Teacher Education Institution
TEEP                Third Elementary Education Project
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
June I - March 31



REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table Of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................... iii
GLOSSARY ..................................... iv
I. BACKGROUND ......................................1
II. THE ELEMENTARY EDUCATION  SYSTEM ......................................2
A. Overview ......................................2
B. Issues in Elementary Education ......................................3
C. Govermnent Sub-Sectoral Strategy ......................................9
D. Bank Strategy .....................................                                     11
E. Lessons Learned from Past Operations .....................................              12
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....................................                    14
II. THE PROJECT .....................................                                             15
A. Goals, Objectives and Indicators ........................                               15
B. Scope and Approach ........................                                             15
C. Project Description ........................                                            16
D. First Component: Capacity-Building at the Central and Regional Levels ...... 18
E. Second Component: Elementary Education Improvement in 26 Poor
Provinces ......................................................                  20
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................ 27
A. Cost Estimates ...........................................................             27
B. Financing Plan ...........................................................             28
C. Procurement ...........................................................                29
This report is based on the findings of a joint IBRD-OECF appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in ApriUMay
1996, comprising Mmes./Messrs. F. Delannoy (Task Manager, EA1HR), B. Bidani (Economics, ASTHR), M. Lockheed
(Education, HDD), J. Kirk (Distance Education, Consultant), J. Renner (Management, Consultant), S. Theunynck (Civil
Works/ Implementation, Consultant) and C. Vales (Resident Mission). OECF was represented by Messrs. Shimokawa
and Kabayashi and Ms. Muto. Project design and preparation were partly funded by Japan, AusAID, CIDA,
UNDP/UNICEF, UNESCO France and ADB. The underlying sector work was conducted by a Filipino team led by Mr.
E. Barzaga (Innotech-Seamao) with support from V. Ordonez (UNESCO), and assistance from J. Fernandez and for the
Bank by A. Schwartz (PSP) and J-P. Tan (HDD). Preparation was led by Ms. Lourdes G. de Vera and Mr. J. Mateo
(DECS) under the leadership of Mrs. L. Pefianco (DECS Undersecretary) and with the assistance of Mr. M. Taguiwalo
(Economist), University Ateneo de Manila, and the Philippines Business for Social Progress. Valuable comments/inputs
were contributed by B. Alano (sustainability analysis, consultant), B. Diokno (devolution), A. Christensen (Indigenous
people and resettlement, ASTHR), H. Patrinos (demand-side financing, HDD), E. Heneveld/H. Craig/Y. Zeeger/R.
Matthews/A. Burke (schools and teachers), N. Jangira/G. Wall (pedagogical decentralization), 1. Montagnes (textbooks),
S. Shaeffer (multigrade), J. Izard (assessment). Peer Reviewers were E. Jimenez (PRDPH), B. Fredriksen (AFTHD), J.
Middleton (EDINP), and V. Paqueo (LASHC). The Lead Advisor was Mr. A. Verspoor (SA2RS) and for the economic
analysis, Mr. N. Prescott (EAIHR). The report has been endorsed by Messrs. S. Burmester (Chief, EAIHR) and J.
Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Director EAI and Acting Vice President EAP).



- 11 -
D. Disbursements ................................................                                         34
E. Audits and Accounting .................................................                                 35
F. Implementation ................................................                                        36
G. Monitoring and Evaluation                          ............................................... 37
H. Status of Preparation .................................................                                 38
I. Sustainability ................................................                                        38
J. Poverty, Environment and Gender ................................................                       40
V. BENEFITS AND  RISKS .....................................................                                        41
A. Benefits .....................................................                                         41
B. Risks .....................................................                                            41
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... 43
TABLES
In Text
Table 2.1: Philippines School System                                                 .2
Table 2.2: Reasons for Not Attending School                                               .5
Table 4.1: Summary Costs by Component .27
Table 4.2: Summary Costs by Category of Expenditure .28
Table 4.3:  Financing Plan by Disbursement Categories and Financiers .29
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements .33
In Annexes
Annex 1: Contextual Country Data .45
Annex 2: Economics Analysis .47
Annex 3: Role of Other Donors .65
Annex 4: Data on TEEP Provinces .66
Annex 5: Project Performance Indicators .70
Annex 6: DEDP Planning .79
Annex 7: GoP's Memorandum of Policy .80
Annex 8: Project Management Chart .93
Annex 9: DEDP Criteria and Guidelines .94
Annex 10:   Decentralized Educational Planning and Management ................................ 96
Annex  11:   Exemples of SIIF Pilots, TEEP Strategy for Indigenous People .................. 99
Annex 12:   Implementation of the School Building Program ....................................... 102
Annex 13:   Supervision Plan .....................................................                                 108
Annex 14:   Costs and Financing ......................................................                             112
Annex 15:   Procurement Matrix .....................................................                               117
Annex 16:   Disbursement Schedule and Profile .....................................................                 118
Annex 17:   Documents in Project File .....................................................                        119
MAP
IBRD 27835



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agencies:    Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS),
Local Government Units (LGUs)
Beneficiary:               N/A
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    US$113.4 million
Terms:                     Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard interest rate for a LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loan.
Commitment Fee:            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:            See Table 4.3
Net Present Value:         N/A
Map Number:                IBRD 27835
Project
Identification Number:     4602
Vice President:    Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, Acting, EAP
Director:         Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chief:    Sven Burmester, EA1HR
Task Manager:      Fran,oise Delannoy, Sr. Operations Officer



- iv -
EDUCATION GLOSSARY
Cohort survival rate      Refers to the proportion of enrollees at the beginning grade or year
level who least reach the final grade of or year level at the end of
the required number years of study (Grade VI enroll. current year
over Grade I. enroll. five years ago).
Enrollment ratio (gross)  Refers to the total enrollment in a given level of education as a
percentage of ago the population which according to national
regulations should be enrolled in this level. It is a measure of the
"'capacity" of the country's elementary (age 7-12) or secondary
(age 13-16) schools total.
Completion rate           Refers to the percentage of first year entrants in a cycle of
education surviving and completing the cycle at the end of the
required number of years of study. (Graduates VI current year over
Grade I five years)
Headteacher               Refers to an administrator of elementary school of who supervises
at 7 and at most 9 teachers and teaches at least two subjects.
Participation rate or
Net enrollment ratio      Refers to the total enrollment in a given level of education as a
percentage of the population which according to national
regulations should be enrolled in this level. It is a measure of the
"capacity" the country's elementary (ages 7-12) or secondary (ages
13-16) schools.
Repetition rate           Refers to the proportion of pupils/students who enroll in the same
grade/year level more than once to the number of pupils/students
enrolled in that grade/year during the previous school year. (No. of
repeaters current year over total enrollment previous year --could
also be for particular grade).
Transition rate           Refers to the percentage of pupils who graduate from one level of
education surviving and completing the cycle at the end of the
required numbers of years of study. (First year high school current
year over Grade VI previous year).



PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1   Following a decade of reform and restructuring, the Philippine economy is well on the
path to recovery. GNP growth started accelerating in 1994, reached 5.5 percent in 1995 and is
projected at 6.5-7 percent for 1996. The prospects for sustaining this trend are better than at any
time since the debt crisis of the early 80s. They will depend on Government's ability to maintain
appropriate macroeconomic policies, pursue its economic liberalization program and intensify
the fight against poverty.
1.2   Poverty is still the Philippines' major development challenge, with over one third of
households classified as "poor" (1994). The problem is concentrated in the rural areas, where
two thirds of the poor live, and over half of the population is poor. Rural poverty reflects both
lower average incomes and more severe income disparities than in the country as a whole.
Poverty declined by about 0.7 percent per annum during 1971-91, a modest record by East Asian
standards.
1.3   Average educational indicators are favorable in quantitative terms, particularly for a
country at that income level (GNP per capita: US$1,134 in 1995). In 1995, the Philippines was
ranked the third most schooled nation in Asia, after Brunei and Korea, both with a much higher
per capita income (UNESCO). However, national and even regional averages obscure wide
discrepancies in access to quality education which coincide with the poverty map. Almost all
children enter elementary school, but one-third drop out. They come disproportionately from
poor families and economically depressed areas, as shown by the completion rates, which range
from nearly 100 in the National Capital Region (NCR) to below 30 percent in parts of Eastern
Visayas and Mindanao. Education is not the only factor explaining income differentials, but
when combined with a low level of agricultural investment, it has condemned rural youths to a
life of poverty. Poverty incidence is 65 percent among households whose heads have less than
five years of education.
1.4    The Government of the Philippines (GoP) is aware that the existence of large
concentrations of poverty and low levels of education is not only inequitable, but also poses a
threat to social stability, investor sentiment and economic competitiveness. It has declared
poverty reduction one of its highest priorities for the remaining period of its tenure, and has
developed a strategy to that effect, the Social Reform Agenda (1994). The SRA aims to share
the benefits of growth more equitably, while involving the poor more actively in the
development process. It is a geographically targeted program which combines measures to
expand economic opportunities in depressed rural areas, provide basic social services to improve
the human capital of the poor, and promote democratic governance. The proposed operation of
the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) is the first GoP SRA project. It begins
tackling the central issue of low completion rates and low learning achievements among rural
children, as a first step towards helping them break the cycle of poverty.



- 2 -
2. THE ELEMENTARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. OVERVIEW
2.1    The Philippines education system, one of the most mature in Asia, can boast impressive
quantitative achievements. Universal access to elementary education was reached as early as the
mid-60s; the adult basic literacy rate is about 93 percent (1990); enrollments in higher education
are among the highest in the developing world, and private sector participation is strong,
especially at the post-primary level. The following table summarizes the key sectoral data.
Table 2.1: Philippines School System - 1994/95
Number of Students               Enrollment   Participation   Number    Number
Total     Public       Age         Ratio       Rate2         of         of
Enrollment    (%)       Group        (%)          (%)       Teachers    Schools
Preschool            165,9973    92           6
Elementary        10,903,529               7-124         112          87       302,551    35,775
Secondary          4,762,877     68        13-16          77          58       91,778      6,055
Higher Education   2,150,611     21        17-21          ---         ---       6,024      2,457
Cohort Analysis
Elementary Education        Secondary~ Education
Public       Private        Public       Private
Cycle Completion Rate                           67.3         77.7           67.3          76.1
% of graduates completing in 6 years            89.3         96.0
% of graduates completing in 4 yrs.                                         91.7          95.0
Av. ed. yrs. used per I graduate                 7.5          7.0            5.1           4.8
Av.. ed. yrs. consumed per dropout               2.8          3.2            2.2           2.3
% of dropouts not reaching grade 4              67.9         62.8
1995 DECS profile unless otherwise indicated. The statistics quoted in this report are not always fully
consistent because they come from various sources or were collected at different points in the school year
(SY). DECS and the Bank are aware of the problem, and improving data quality is a priority objective of this
project.
2
Participation Rate = Net Enrollment Ratio.
3
1991 Data.
4
WillI shift to 6-1 1 by 2003, due to lowering of admission age. Project design is based on 6-12 years-old cohort.



-3 -
2.2   Elementary education consists of six grades. However, rural areas have some 4,400
"incomplete" schools, i.e., limited to the first four grades, and 11,000 multigrade schools, where
one teacher handles two or more grades. The average pupil:teacher ratio is 1:33, with wide
regional variations. The admission age was lowered from 7 to 6 years in SY95/96. The stated
gross elementary enrollment ratio is high (112 percent) as is the net enrollment ratio
("participation rate") at 87 percent, but they still leave 1.5 million 7-12 year olds, the hardest to
reach, out of school. By contrast with most developing countries, girls are more schooled than
boys. Basic Data are in Annex 1.
2.3   DECS administers and supervises elementary and secondary education. As of to-day,
line authority extends from DECS Central Office through 16 Regional Offices to 134 provincial
and city School Divisional Offices, down to some 2,100 District Offices which oversee about 15-
20 public elementary schools each. The roles of the various layers of the education system are
being redefined to make the School Divisions the key operational level (para. 3.23). GoP
proposes to implement this reorganization via administrative, rather than legislative channels.
B. ISSUES IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
2.4   The downside of the GoP's mass-education strategy has been a continuous decline in
quality which has hurt the poor more than any other group (1991 Report of the Congress
Education Commission, or EDCOM Report). For long the impact was not felt because slow
growth and import-substitution development strategies failed to create high productivity
employment, forcing 4 million Filipinos to take their skills abroad. Social rate of returns on
education decreased, educational investment stagnated and outcomes declined. But this seemed
irrelevant since anyway, many people were trapped in low paying agricultural or informal urban
sector jobs. Thus, the Philippines failed to capture the benefits normally associated with
education-productivity growth, poverty reduction, economic and social development. Now that
the export-led pattern of growth adopted by GoP is accelerating the demand for labor, low
educational quality is increasingly identified by business as a major impediment to catching up
with the East Asia "miracle" countries, which have achieved growth and equity. The two main
issues in elementary education are variations in outcomes and adverse social selectivity (paras.
2.5-2.9). Paras. 2.10-2.23 discuss the root causes.
Wide Variations in Outcomes
2.5   Education quantitative indicators are good on average, but analyses at the provincial level
or below reveal wide qualitative disparities which are poverty-related. Most children have access
to a school, but only 68 percent complete elementary education. For many of those who
complete, little learning takes place. Recent international comparisons of math, science and
reading among 9 and 14 years old show not only a low mean score for Filipino children - two
standard deviations below the sample mean - but greater variations around the mean, both of
student scores and school scores. The urban/rural differences were particularly pronounced.
This suggests that raising quality would require not only increasing average performance but also
reducing variations across students and schools by targeting the worst schools. By contrast with
many African or Latin American countries, repetition is not a major cause of drop-out. Children



- 4 -
either are promoted - over 89 percent of the graduates complete the cycle in six years - or are
allowed to drop out, as poor achievements reflect badly on teacher's performance. About 60
percent of the drop-out happens in Grades I and II, another eight percent before Grade 4. The 2.8
years spent in school by the drop-outs are not enough for them to remain literate.
2.6   The disparities in public schooling outcomes are reflected in social indicators. In well-off
provinces, higher educational attainment and achievements lead to improved adult health status,
lower fertility levels and reduced malnutrition; better nutrition enhances pupils' ability to learn;
children who have a positive schooling experience stay longer in school, as in a seamless web.
In very poor provinces such as Abra, Masbate, or Zamboaga, up to 50 percent of the children are
malnourished, completion rates can fall as low as 25 percent, and achievement levels, as low as
36 percent of curriculum objectives. There is a strong negative correlation between fertility,
infant mortality, on one hand, and elementary school completion on the other hand.
Social Selectivity in Elementary School Completion
2.7   The education system is structurally equitable in terms of the budget share allocated to
each level, but socially regressive. Children from poor families are ill -prepared for learning and
have no choice but to go to public schools, which tend to offer lower quality education than the
better endowed private schools.  The quality gap is larger in rural areas, because of an
inequitable, pupil-based resource allocation mechanism that puts small schools at a
disadvantage.  The poor are trapped in a vicious circle: they learn little at school, get
discouraged, drop-out early and, with little education, have limited earning power, perpetuating
the cycle of poverty for their offspring. The probability of drop-out for a first grader from a low-
income farming family is almost 20 percent, versus less than 5 percent for a child from an urban
educated background.
2.8   Poor youngsters face additional handicaps.  First, even in public schools, parents
contribute on average one-third of total costs; consequently, public elementary education costs
more to low-income households, as a proportion of their budget, than private education to the
rich. Second, poor children have to work: nearly half of 7-12 year olds, especially boys, are
engaged in home production, contributing up to 25 percent of family income; almost one-fourth
do market work, which keeps them at peak season, and sometimes permanently, out of school;
child labor is not uncommon. For these families, the private costs of public education (para.
2.12) are simply unaffordable. Combined low quality and high cost, in a context of economic
hardship and lack of job opportunities, make elementary school attendance a waste of time and
have generated a decline in demand.
2.9   Adverse social selectivity works mainly along poverty, not gender lines. In 1994, girls
accounted for 49.5 percent, 51.5 percent and 56.3 percent of enrollments in elementary,
secondary and tertiary education. In 1992, among the 30 percent poorest, 7.6 percent of 7-12
year-old boys, and 6.1 percent of girls, were out of school. The percentages jump to 29.2 percent
and 19.5 percent for the 13-16 year old group. On the other hand, among the poor, some groups
face particular odds because of size, geographical isolation, language, or lifestyle. They include:
children of ethnic minorities such as the Ifugaos in the North, nomadic tribes such as the



- 5 -
Manobos in Mindanao, migrant workers ("sacada") in the plantations of Visayas, and boys
engaged in child labor. Table 2.2 summarizes why children from the 30 percent lowest per
capita income group are not in school. It shows that significantly reducing the drop-out rates will
require interventions that (a) make the schooling experience more interesting; (b) bring schools
closer to the barangays (village); and (c) address demand-side issues (health, nutrition, cost of
education). These findings have shaped the design of the proposed operation.
Table 2.2: Reasons for Not Attending School
Percent of Respondents in Age Group
B~~     Girls
Lack of Interest              59.2    54.1
Inaccessibility of school     14.2    17.8
High cost of education        10.1     8.9
Working/looking for work       9.0    11.4
Illness/disability             7.5     7.8
Source: Harris & Racelis, NEDA, 1994
The Root Causes: Macro Constraints Erode Equity
2.10  The Impact of Poverty. The declining human capital of the poor is the legacy of years of
neglect, followed by a period of slow and erratic growth which frustrated the major commitments
of the Aquino Administration in favor of the social sectors. During the 70s and 80s, negative per
capita growth reduced per pupil public investment in education, per capita income, and, as
income distribution remains very skewed, the amounts that poor households can invest in the
education of their children. Part of the problem is therefore of a macro nature. While most of the
urban poor could be pulled out of their predicament by sustained, export-led growth, improving
the lot of the poorest, most of whom live in rural areas, will require increased rural investments
and the provision of basic social services, as proposed under this project. Access to quality
education and health is a key determinant of life expectancy, life quality, and labor productivity,
influencing the extent to which individuals are prepared to invest in their own human capital.
2.11   Unbalanced, Inequitable Public Funding. A 1996 Bank study on "Education Financing
and Social Equity: A Reform Agenda" confirmed that the Filipinos are highly committed to
education, as reflected in the 6 percent of GNP the nation allocates to the sector. However, the
public contribution, at 2.8 percent of GNP, is still below the Asian average of 3.4 percent, and is
not sufficient to correct market failures. This is not for lack of effort: public sectoral spending
grew by nearly 12 percent in real terms during 1985-95. However, the impact was more
remedial than developmental; the increase was stop-go and most of it was absorbed by a 76
percent increase in teacher salaries, the nationalization of locally-funded village high schools,
and the introduction of a voucher system in support of free universal secondary education.
2.12  The pattern of sectoral spending raises two issues. First, by level of education, it has
become less pro-poor, with the share of elementary education declining from 60 to 47 percent
during the past 11 years. The percentage is still enviable, but equity has suffered, as elementary
education is the only schooling 60 percent of the poor receive. By type of expenditure, the



- 6 -
pattern has become increasingly incompatible with the delivery of quality, as salaries (85 percent
of DECS 1995 Budget) have crowded out other expenditures, especially instructional materials.
In 1995, the Maintenance and Other Operating Expenditures (MOOE) allocation of 125 Pesos
(US$5.0) at the elementary level was insufficient to provide the "interesting" learning
environment needed to keep poor children in school. Second, GoP's difficulties in meeting
education's financing requirements since the late 80s have been compensated by an increasing
involvement of the Local Government Units (LGUs) and the private sector. This could lead to
greater efficiency but may also exacerbate inequities.  LGU financing since the Local
Government Code (LGC) was promulgated in 1991 increased from 2 to 9 percent of total public
sector spending. As all LGUs contribute according to means, and GOP's allocations are pupil-
based, excluding any mechanism to compensate for the narrow resource base of poor LGUs or
for the small student body of rural schools, the educational quality gap between affluent and poor
schools is likely to widen. As for private funding, it increased from 18 to 31 percent of total
expenditures on elementary education, further contributing to the propensity of poor children to
dropping out.
2.13  What are GoP's options to redress the present inequities? Neither the share of the total
budget allocated to education (26 percent in 1995), nor the contribution of private education
(Table 1) can be raised much further. Three promising avenues would be to: (a) reallocate
resources from the State Universities and Colleges, which have high unit costs and absorb 16
percent of total GoP educational expenditures; (b) revise staff deployment practices and norms
for allocating resources to schools, which are cost-ineffective and put small rural schools at a
disadvantage; and (c) tap those LGUs which are able and willing to pay for improved services,
while targeting available resources at those most in need. The project will help DECS achieve a
more equitable, efficient and balanced spending pattern.
2.14 The Challenges and Opportunities of Devolution. Although education is one of the few
non devolved sectors, the 1991 LGC established two elements of a decentralized framework for
education: (a) the provincial, city or municipality School Boards, co-chaired by the LGU and
DECS authorities, which allocate LGU funding to the sector: and (b) a Special Education Fund
(SEF) maintained in each provincial, city or municipality treasury and administered by the
corresponding School Board. The LGC is under review and it is expected that more educational
functions -- except for teacher salaries -- will be decentralized. The LGU contribution to
education is strikingly complementary to that of Central Government, with its focus on non-
salary expenditures, MOOE and capital outlay. It also offers potentialfor expanding elementary
education financing. Mobilizing additional LGU resources for education should be facilitated by
the fact that financial transfers to LGUs will increase sharply in the years ahead. The project will
introduce, for school construction and maintenance, a Central/Local Government cost-sharing
ratio which will increase public education financing and make it more progressive.
2.15  Traditional Management Style. With 45 percent of the civil service, DECS is the largest
GoP Department. Its bureaucratic, complex management practices do not meet the needs of a
large, diverse country undergoing rapid decentralization or the demands of a modernizing
economy, both of which require flexibility. Neither are they designed to correct educational
inequities. Decision-making remains centralized and top-down and involves many levels (1993



I                                      - 7 -
Internal Audit). The Regional Offices are too remote from classrooms and absorb 30 percent of
resources. Another problem area is the limited use of the massive amount of data collected from
the field for decision-making. There is no institutional capacity to prepare analyses for the
Secretary. The need for rigorous measurement of impact and costs is not fully appreciated; for
instance, the population-based assessment system is costly and does not generate timely
diagnostic information. The weak budget monitoring procedures result in underspending.
Finally, DECS is still the sole provider of support services, such as testing or in-service training,
which outsourcing could improve. Physical planning is still based on standardized norms rather
than actual needs. In particular, pupil-based MOOE allocation and staffing norms for teachers
and principals affects the quality and effectiveness of school and classroom management and
ultimately, schooling outcomes, preventing the reduction of disparities. The system is more
oriented towards control than support, and activities than results. Most DECS' managers and
professionals are former teachers with limited training in their new responsibilities. DECS
leadership is aware of these problems and plans to use the project to address them through a
major capacity-building effort.
Sectoral Factors Reinforce the Disparities in Access to Educational Quality Inputs
2.16 A 1993 "fast-track" assessment of 16,000 Grade VI pupils found that only 29 percent of
the 131 competencies tested were learned. In 1994 provincial test scores ranged from 54 in
Masbate to 102 in the National Capital. The following paragraphs explore why.
2.17 Inequities in Readiness for School and Teachability. Poor children in rural areas enter
school late (7 years old or more), frequently come from functionally illiterate homes, and, having
seldom attended early childhood or pre-school programs, have not had previous exposure to
English or Tagalog, the two languages of instruction. One project study found that even one
year of preschool raises learning, especially in the early grades and in language skills, and
reduces the likelihood of drop-out by one-third. Pupils also miss school and eventually drop out
because of easily treatable diseases such as respiratory infections and diarrhea. One third--and
up to half in pockets of extreme poverty such as Leyte or Masbate--suffer from protein-energy
malnutrition (PEM) and micronutrient deficiencies. This slows down intellectual development
and depresses the immune system, making poor pupils more likely to underperform and more
vulnerable to disease. To address demand issues, the project will pilot research-based targeted
interventions.
2.18  Inequitable Access to Basic Inputs. Due to distribution problems, remote schools only
have a few textbooks per class (one book for 3-6 children in the project's six pilot provinces),
and the books lack relevance to a rural environment. Teaching aids are scarce, mostly teacher-
made, and libraries are thinly stocked. A major development is that under a recently passed law,
the textbook publishing sector for public schools, hitherto under government monopoly, is to be
entirely privatized over the next three years. Schools will select books from a DECS-approved
5
"Do Pre-school programs Improve Elementary School Outcomes? Evidence from the Philippines". A. Mingat
(IREDU) and J-P Tan (World Bank), 1995. Available in the Project File.



- 8 -
list. This reform, which in the long-run is likely to promote an already vibrant national
publishing industry, for the short term generates uncertainty regarding the price of books and
their delivery to isolated areas. It also calls for new skills, systems and procedures if the
transition is to be orderly. The project will build on analytical inputs provided to GoP by the
Canadian Government in the area of publishing.
2.19   Pedagogical Constraints. Rural schools, which in most cases have no principal to provide
instructional leadership, no MOOE to purchase materials, and are rarely supervised, also have
beginner teachers. Equipped with a limited repertoire of classroom management skills, those
teachers have to practice multigrade teaching without proper equipment and preparation despite
the noteworthy effort of UNICEF which has trained and equipped about 9,000 teachers. This
explains why multigrade is perceived by parents and teachers as second-rate education. Young
teachers are also thrown into a rigid prescriptive pedagogic system which does not develop
initiative. In-service training remains supply-driven, teacher and subject-centered, underfunded
and biased towards urban teachers. Other constraints are systemwide but particularly affect
small rural schools because of their isolation and limited resources. For instance, the curriculum
emphasizes "Minimum learning competencies", instead of developing individual students' full
potential, and needs to be refocused on core disciplines. The school calendar was extended in
1993, but teachers are overburdened with extracurricular activities which leave little time for
reflective, individual or group learning. The early, formative grades do not get enough attention.
Tlhe project will approach these issues by revitalizing in-service training in support of
pedagogical decentralization (paras. 2.26-2.27).
2.20 In poor schools, the dilapidated physical environment is not conducive to learning. The
regional distribution of schools and furniture bears little or no relationship with poverty or school
participation. Furthermore, the needs for maintenance and replacement are considerable, as one
third of the existing 305,000 classrooms are over 15-20 years old, and most were built to low
quality standards. Nearly one-fourth of total capacity cannot be used as classrooms, so that the
pupil/classroom ratio averages 42, with wide regional variations. Almost half of the schools
have no water, and 61 percent, no electricity. All lack modem means of communications.
Access per se is not an issue, but access to quality, and to a "complete" school offering six
grades, is. Low completion rates and the high incidence of overage children (40 percent in
Mindanao) are linked to distance from a properly equipped, albeit small, school offering all six
grades (21 percent of grade VI pupils walk over one hour). However, the current school map
reflects a preference for large "central" or "model" schools located near urban centers and better
endowed to provide quality education. Offering small multigrade schools closer to the barangays
would reduce the capital and recurrent costs associated with monograde teaching. The same
classroom design is used throughout the country, whatever the physical and climatic conditions.
In the project's six pilot provinces, the desk:pupils ratio is about 1: 4. A preparation study 6
found that desks and furniture were as cost-effective as workbooks in raising learning. About
75-85 percent of school sites are untitled, but DECS has put in place a legal, albeit lengthy
6
"Putting Inputs to Work in Elementary Schools: What Can Be Done in the Philippines?" J-P. Tan (ESP)
et al. (1995)



-9-
process, to ensure that at least for new sites there is evidence of clear title, and displaced
individuals, if any, are properly compensated.
Need for Greater Attention to Micro Factors
2.21  In-School Factors. A complete quality improvement strategy must go beyond the mere
provision of inputs to improve the way these are managed at the school level. Particularly
critical to shifting from "status quo" to dynamic and adaptive schools is the lack of principals.
Only one school in four has a principal, and most rural schools do not A preparation study7
comparing 11 high-performing and 8 low-performing schools (HPS, LPS) found that HPS have
entrepreneurial principals who exercise instructional and administrative leadership, create a sense
of discipline, purpose and teamwork and forge partnerships with the communities. However,
there is no systematic program to identify and nurture leadership. Under the project, school
clusters will be assigned one principal, pilot schools will be empowered, and
management/leadership training will be provided.
2.22 Weak Community Participation Community and parental involvement, which correlates
positively with ownership, financial support and school outcomes, is consistently more limited
in poorer communities. Project studies report acts of vandalism against school facilities and
parents shunning PTA meetings. There is no systematic school-level mechanism to advise and
control the principal. In recent years, neither communities nor Municipal Engineering Offices
(MEOs) have been involved in school construction, although both would be interested in the
economic benefits and the MEOs have the technical capacity. School construction has been the
responsibility of the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH); it represents a minor
fraction of DPWH's workload (5-10 percent) and has received commensurate attention.
Community and parental involvement is even weaker--and practically non-existent--in
pedagogical decisions. Participation is critical to the sustainability of the project, and has been
built into its design, from planning through implementation.
2.23  Child Labor and Other Demand-side Constraints. The best strategy to address demand-
side issues (para. 2.8) is to raise the quality of education so that attending school is worth the
opportunity cost, and to reduce the private cost of schooling to make it affordable to poor
families. A case study of child labor is under preparation to design workable solutions. The
elementary education development plans prepared by the six project pilot provinces all include
requests for "special programs" in health, nutrition, interventions for ethnic minority children and
migrant laborers. These programs will initially be treated as pilots.
C. GOVERNMENT SUB-SECTORAL STRATEGY
2.24  GoP's five-pronged strategy for elementary education reaffirms long-standing principles
and incorporates new ones. (a) The commitment to elementary education as the funding priority
7
A Comparative Study of High-performing and Low -Performing Elementary Schools", Ateneo de Manila
University. 1995.



- 10-
is embodied in the 1987 Constitution, and has been revived by the EDCOM and Education-for-
All Reports and the SRA. (b) The trend towards decentralization dates back to the mid-70s and
is now being carried below the regional level to the provinces, under the new impetus given by
the 1991 LGC. (c) On the other hand, the use of participatory approaches reflects the
empowerment policies of the Aquino and Ramos Administrations, while (d) the "Effective
School' thrust and the new emphasis on diversified solutions, experimentation and
(e) measurement build on recent worldwide education research findings. In recent years, isolated
steps have been taken to improve quality. DECS was split in three to concentrate on Basic
Education only, teacher salaries have been increased, the school year lengthened, and private
sector regulations relaxed. The impact of these measures is not known. Preparation of this
project has, however, provided a strategic opportunity to align all the elements of the system
towards the goal of quality education, especially for the poor, and to rally the donors. The full
strategy, which builds on work done by DECS, not only with the Bank, but also with Australian,
Canadian, Irish, Japanese bilateral aid, and with ADB, UNDP and UNICEF, is detailed below. It
will be tested in the most challenging provinces under TEEP and generalized if successful.
2.25 Improving Sectoral Funding. To correct inequities in access to quality inputs, GoP will
use the budget for social targeting and will tap additional sources of public funds. The plan is to:
(a) maintain education's share in the Central Government budget (26 percent); (b) within this,
restore the share allocated to elementary education in the mid-80s (60 percent) and increase the
proportion of this going to the 26 provinces from 17 to no less than 20 percent; (c) introduce a
progressive cost-sharing formula between central and local governments to target resources on
poorer LGUs and expand the elementary education allocation by devolving school
construction/maintenance (1997); (d) increase the MOOE allocation; (e) improve expenditure
efficiency by rationalizing the staffing norms; and (f) create a School Improvement and
Innovation Facility (SIIF) to further target the more marginalized schools.
2.26 School-based Quality Improvement. The strategy to increase achievements and retention
is the 'Effective School" framework in which schools are the locus of an active, organic process
of transformning inputs into pupils' learning. It proposes to: (a) give all children easy access
(1 hour's walk) to a complete school, mono or multigrade, providing quality education; (b) create
school clusters to organize a demand-driven process of in-service training and to facilitate
frequent, supportive supervision; instructional (internal) leadership will be provided in rural
schools, by district supervisors and in urban schools, by principals; (c) equip each school,
classroom and pupil with a basic kit of instructional material; (d) give schools more autonomy
and flexibility (with respect to MOOE, school attendance calendar, the extra-curricular demands
on teachers, time on task, and indigenization of up to 30 percent of the curriculum where so
desired by communities); (f) develop a successful multigrade model; (g) expand community-
based ECD/pre-schooling programs targeted at the poorest; and (h) use SIIF grants to encourage
schools to introduce instruction-related innovation that reflect their unique circumstances.
2.27 Management Decentralization. To support this focus, TEEP will bring the level of
decision-making closer to the school and the community. The School Divisions (Provinces and
Cities) are becoming the basic operational units to plan, implement, monitor and manage
education programs delivered by the schools. Over time, more responsibility may be shifted to



- 11 -
the District level. Some schools will selectively be "empowered", e.g., in fiscal and pedagogical
management, under different organizational models giving more or less power to the principal
and the School's Management Advisory Committee. The role of the Regional Offices will be
reoriented to facilitate this transition. Appropriate skills, systems and procedures will be
developed to delegate operational functions to lower levels, allowing the Central Office of DECS
to concentrate on its strategic, regulatory and resource mobilization roles.
2.28 Partnerships with Stakeholders. To ensure sustainability, TEEP will mobilize the
communities in support of schools. It proposes to: (a) involve DECS Divisional Offices, LGU
and community officials in the preparation of the DEDPs; (b) have the LGUs contribute to the
financing and implementation of the school construction/ maintenance program, as a step
towards devolution; (c) use the existing provincial and municipal School Boards, and create
"School Management Advisory Committees", to exercise "democratic oversight" and to deepen
parental and community involvement in all aspects of school life, such as the delivery of
textbooks; (d) recruit NGOs for the independent monitoring of relatively non-technical aspects of
school and classroom processes; and (e) mobilize corporate funding.
2.29 Measuring Impact and Cost to Guide Decision-Making. To better target resources,
determine whether to institutionalize or to drop the pilot experiments, and increase accountability
and transparency, TEEP will promote information-based decision-making. It will introduce:
(a) a sample-based assessment system to provide educators with rapidly usable diagnostic
information; (b) a user-friendly MIS tailored to the needs of policy-makers and implementing
Divisions; and (c) procedures to monitor, communicate and inform stakeholders and the public
about project actions, their impact and cost.
D. BANK STRATEGY
2.30 The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (February 15, 1996) was prepared following a
participatory approach. Now that the fiscal crises of the past are under control, the strategy
stresses macroeconomic stability and the quality of the development process. Its five objectives
are to: (a) help the GoP maintain sound macro policies to convert the current economic recovery
into a period of sustained growth; (b) strengthen the public sector's implementing capacity;
(c) improve the country's infrastructure to promote private sector-led growth; (d) support
sustainable management of natural resources and protect the environment; and (e) design and
implement better mechanisms to reduce poverty and upgrade the quality of basic services for the
poor.
2.31  Because of the need to be selective, for the short-term the Bank's social sector program is
geared towards the CAS' poverty objective. One of the three recommendations of the Bank's
1996 "Strategy to Fight Poverty" is to provide quality basic social services to the poor. In line
with this recommendation, the proposed Third Elementary Education Project and an Early
Childhood Development (ECD) Project under preparation will target interventions in health,
nutrition and cognitive development on the most vulnerable, highest pay-off group, namely
young children from poor families. In both cases the Bank is helping GoP to strengthen the
strategic framework for addressing inequities, to develop cost-effective delivery mechanisms,



- 12 -
and to mobilize soft money. As pilots being tested in the SRA provinces prior to adoption in
other poor provinces, these interventions will have a large multiplier effect. In parallel, the Bank
is using non-lending services for building analytical and implementation capacities in the social
sectors. One Institutional Development Fund Grant is assisting the Central Agencies with
poverty monitoring and targeting, while another one under preparation will help sharpen their
human resource development strategy and investment program. Supervision of an Engineering
and Science Education Project (Ln. 3435-PH) and a Second Vocational Technical Project
(Cr.2392-PH) provides a platform for an on-going dialogue on skills for global competitiveness
in a rapidly changing environment.
E. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS
2.32 Projects in the Philippines. The eleven projects implemented since 1965 (totaling about
US$553 million) provide many relevant lessons, especially the 1981 Sector Program for
Decentralized Elementary Education (PRODED) and the 1991 Second Elementary Education
Project (SEEP)8. On simple project elements such as school construction, Filipinos have a good
mastery of the required techniques, and even a change in approach as proposed here can be easily
absorbed. On the other hand, qualitative objectives have been elusive, and more complex
interventions such as targeting, monitoring and evaluation require more thorough, practical
preparation (e.g., a school-map, rather than an elaborate mathematical formula) and supervision.
Another lesson is that participation in project design is essential to avoid stakeholder resistance,
and for effective implementation. PRODED would have benefited, had it been implemented on a
geographically and chronologically phased basis, in line with absorptive capacity, rather than
wholesale nationwide.   Its implementation  experience  shows that projects involving
decentralization, in particular, require careful consideration of administrative arrangements, roles
and responsibilities and early institutionalization. The failure to institutionalize PRODED's
INSET program does illustrates the fact that incentives such as honoraria, when excessive, are
not sustainable. Other relevant lessons include the importance of: (a) a free-standing, properly
staffed, project management unit (SEEP); (b) making better use of consultants (PRODED); and
(c) simplifying disbursement arrangements (SEEP). The Technical Volume contains details.
2.33 Lessons from Other Sources. The project design also builds on lessons learned from
other countries. Chapter 1 of the Technical Volume summarizes the findings of a 1991 review of
over 100 education reform programs worldwide9 and recent literature on the management of
educational change.  Three key lessons emphasize the importance of:  (a) schools and
classrooms, decentralized educational decision-making power, and local solutions to local
8
Based on three PCRs: Education V (Mass Media), Ln. S008-PH, 1984; Sector Program for Education, Ln.
2030-PH, 1991; Vocational Training, Ln. 2200-PH, 1992; and five PPARs: Education 1, Ln. 393-PH, 1975;
Education 11, Cr. 349-PH, 1982; Education III, Ln. 1224T-PH, 1986; Education IV, Ln. 13-74-PH, 1986;
Education VI, Ln. 1786-PH, 1990. PRODED received a US$100 million dollar IBRD Loan(Ln. 2030-PH),
closed on December 31, 1988 and SEEP, a US$200 million IBRD Loan (Ln. 3244-PH), closed on June 30,
1996.
9
"How Schools Improve" IMTEC, Oslo, 1991.



- 13 -
problems; (b) implementation, which must be a learning process characterized by stable goals
and coupled with flexible modalities but based on serious monitoring; and (c) participation
during planning, preparation and implementation, to increase ownership.
2.34 Findings about the management of complexity and uncertainty also deserve special
mention because the proposed project on the one hand, takes a systemic approach and departs
from standardized planning, which makes it managerially demanding; and on the other hand, will
be implemented in an environment characterized by a fairly high degree of institutional and
political unpredictability. The following design choices have been made to minimize these risks:
*  Selectivity: the project will target 26 Divisions out of 134
*  Geographic phasing: 6 pilot provinces by appraisal, 8 more in PY2 and 12 in PY3
*   Upfront deloading. (a) curriculum improvement, will be approached, not as a project
component, but through INSET and textbook revision; (b) the reform of teacher pre-
service training, rationalization of the State Universities/Colleges and of staffing norms
to achieve efficiency gains will be pursued as part of the policy dialogue
*  Piloting: pilots, funded by the SIIF beginning in PY2, will test different models of
school empowerment, school pricing, and improvement plans for marginalized schools
*  Incremental levels of innovation, as units demonstrate their ability to handle new tasks
*  Contracting out to the private sector some support functions (research, INSET...)
*  Intensive capacity-building focus in PYI.
2.35   Analysis of Design Alternatives.  During preparation, the DECS/Bank project team
looked at alternative project designs from three different perspectives (Details in Annex 2).
Technical Options. Based on existing studies, the team looked at the impact on cost and learning
of the following inputs and/or alternatives: (a) workbooks/textbooks; (b) multigrade versus
monograde teaching; (c) pre-service versus in-service teacher training; (d) early childhood/pre-
school programs; (e) nutrition and health interventions; (f) reduction in class-size; and
(g) desks/furniture. The findings helped determine the nature/ scope of project interventions.
Public/Private Provision. A recent analysis of the relationship between income levels and
enrollment distribution between public and private schools shows that, by contrast with
secondary education, public schools are the main, if not the only, elementary schooling
opportunity for poor children, especially in rural areas. This justifies the project focus on public
elementary education. Public/Private Financing. Three main pricing options to retain poor
pupils in school were examined. Charging the full cost of a better quality elementary education
was rejected. The required increase in present per pupil expenditures would drive up the cost to
parents, which is already contributing to the drop-out rate. Instead the project aims to lower the
private cost of education by providing fully-subsidized textbooks, relaxing the uniforn
requirements, and bringing schools within walking distance from home. However, for the 22
percent who are fully employed, it may be necessary to lower the price even further by
subsidizing the cost of school attendance. The study on child labor will determine the level of
subsidy required to keep children at different income levels in school, leading to a pilot voucher
system (para. 3.39).



- 14-
F. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.36  The project is an important building-block of the Bank's CAS, discussed by the
Executive Directors in April, 1996, which aims to help GoP transform the present growth into
sustainable, broad-based development and to accelerate poverty reduction. It is a direct follow-
up to the Bank's recent Strategy to Fight Poverty (Report No. 14933-PH), and would
operationalize several of its key priorities: the provision of quality basic social services for the
poor; recognition that education remains a central government function and the main intervention
to help the next generation pull themselves out of poverty; and targeting. By focusing on the
design and testing of a framework for redressing inequities, on the development of more effective
and efficient delivery mechanisms, and on donor concessional finance and technical
mobilization, the project would have the type of strategic and multiplier impact the GoP expects
from Bank operations in the social sectors. Increasing investment in elementary education is a
major determinant of predicted economic growth rates, accounting for 34 percent of the
differential between Latin America and East Asia. Raising the level of educational attainment to
high school completion, towards which the project would be a first step, would reduce the
poverty headcount by over 1 1 percentage points and the poverty gap by almost 6 percentage
points. The current economic take-off is absorbing the excess underemployed educated labor.
This may take a few years. Because investments in human capital have a long gestation period,
now is the time to initiate the reforms needed to ensure that by 2015, the country has a large
enough pool of workers who are sufficiently literate and numerate to be adaptable and trainable.
2.37 Macro Policies and Implementation. As recommended in the Bank's 1995 Public
Expenditure Review, the project will also help rationalize public expenditures by improving
resource allocation through targeting and better budget monitoring. It will build the professional
and managerial capacities needed for DECS to adapt to its changing role, facilitating
implementation of the civil service reform. It will use the lessons from other sectors, especially
health, to ease the process of educational decentralization. The likelihood that it will achieve
results is enhanced by the level of attention given to institutionalization during preparation.
2.38  The Bank's non-financial contribution to the project is threefold. During preparation, it
brought its cross-country experience (notably Chile, Columbia, and India) to bear into project
design, especially in the areas of participatory planning, school improvement, educational
decentralization and the management of change. The Bank also assembled a coalition of donors
who support the project, either as cofinancier (Japan's OECF) or through a reorientation of their
programs. AusAID and possibly HEDCO (Australian and Irish Government Bilateral Agencies)
will strengthen the Teacher Education Institutions that will supply in-service training; CIDA is
assisting the process of educational decentralization and textbook privatization; UNDP/UNICEF
is deepening and expanding its involvement in multigrade teaching. During implementation, the
Bank and these donors will help ensure that this evolving, participatory project receives the right
level and type of supervision -- frequent, supportive, flexible and result-oriented. The thrust of
donor interventions is summarized in Annex 3.



- 15 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. GOALS, OBJECTIVES, AND INDICATORS
3.1   GoP's constitutional goals for education are to maximize its contribution to national
development and to equalize access to, and the benefits from, it. Closing the educational gap
between rich and poor provinces in terms of school inputs and outcomes has top policy priority
under the Social Reform Agenda. Another concern of the Department of Education, Culture and
Sports (DECS) is to modernize education. The proposed Third Elementary Education Project -
or TEEP - addresses the first goal, and to a lesser extent, supports the second one. TEEP is a
specific investment project which aims to: (a) build the institutional capacity of DECS to
manage the change process associated with TEEP; and (b) improve learning achievements,
completion rates and access to quality elementary education in 26 poor provinces, especially
their most disadvantaged communities. The targeted areas include the 20 SRA, plus six
provinces identified by the Presidential Commission to Fight Poverty as including a substantial
number of the very poor; 60 percent of the population in the targeted provinces are classified as
poor. Together the 26 provinces account for 18 percent of the nation's population, 20 percent of
the 6-12 year olds and 24 percent of the poor. Poverty there is both more severe and "deeper"
than the national average. Details are in Annex 4.
3.2   Eleven performance indicators and targets linked to these objectives have been agreed
with the stakeholders. They complement the traditional measures of performance covered by
routine reporting -procurement, disbursement, etc. For capacity-building, implementors will
monitor: (a) the extent to which policy decisions reflect project-funded research (Outcome - this
is one of two non-quantifiable indicators); (b) the timeliness and accuracy of statistical reports
(Output); (c) the gap between planned and actual sub-sectoral expenditures achievements
(Outcome); (d) institutionalization of in-service training (Impact); (e) the level of resources
flowing directly to schools (Input); and (f) the extent to which Central/Local Government cost-
sharing operates as a targeting mechanism (Impact). For educational improvement in 26 poor
provinces, monitoring will cover: (g) the textbook:pupil ratio in remote schools (Outcome);
(h) pupils' scores in English, Mathematics and Science (Impact); (i) completion rates through
Grade VI (Impact); (j) the percentage of children living less than one hour's walk from school
(Outcome); and (k) the extent to which stakeholders, especially minority groups, feel that they
have been consulted during preparation, and that their views are taken into account during
implementation (Outcome). Annex 5 details the targets and monitoring arrangements.
B. SCOPE AND APPROACH
3.3  Implementation will be phased. During preparation, six School Divisions (Provinces)
selected as pilots formulated their own 5-year Divisional Elementary Education Development
Plans (DEDPs), following agreed TEEP Guidelines. This allowed DECS to develop, by major
geographic zone, a typology of issues and solutions which were extrapolated for costing. This is
a process project characterized by a flexible design under which detailed planning of
interventions will be done by the stakeholders during implementation, allowing adjustments in



- 16 -
an uncertain environment. The six pilot DEDPs were appraised by the Bank/OECF in May
1996. Two more batches of 8 and 12 DEDPs will be prepared/appraised in the second and third
project years (PY2 and 3) respectively. By the end of its seven year period, TEEP will have
benefited about 2.3 million 6-12 year olds, about 70 percent of whom come from poor
households, and nearly 52,000 teachers and education managers. The completion rate in the
target group is expected to increase from an average of 55 percent to 64 - 71 percent (low/high
case scenario), and learning achievements to increase by 20 percent. Designed as an exceptional
intervention to overcome the educational odds of isolated, long neglected rural areas, TEEP cuts
across bureaucratic layers and processes. If the effectiveness of the approach -which combines
targeting, a school focus, decentralization, participation and information-based decision-making-
is confirmed, the GoP plans to extend it nationwide.
3.4   Preparation was driven by the stakeholders, earning TEEP the status of Participation
Flagship in the Bank. It started with participatory Sector Work, most of which was conducted by
Filipino consultants and Task Forces during 1994-95.  The Sector Work focused on
implementation, since educational strategic directions had already been mapped out by the
EDCOM Report, and was designed to build consensus. About ten input studies were conducted,
and numerous consultations were organized nationwide to create ownership. Following project
identification in February 1995, a bottom-up planning approach was adopted under which each
DECS Divisional Team in six pilot provinces prepared its own DEDP with local technical
assistance and the participation of LGUs, Universities, Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs), and
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). The process involved a variety of steps and
participatory techniques, from baseline data collection to pilot preparation activities. Special
care was taken to ensure culturally appropriate ways of consulting minority groups during
preparation. For the Divisional teams, Bank missions provided capacity-building opportunities
in unfamiliar planning and budgeting techniques. In turn, the six pilot provinces will help the
next batches of provinces, initiating a leaming process. The LGUs support TEEP and are ready
to contribute to its funding and implementation. Annex 6 and the Technical Volume (TV) give
details.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.5   To achieve its objectives, the project will have a policy and institutional framework and
two investment components.
3.6   Policy and Institutional Framework (PIFM. The PIF will: (a) improve the adequacy,
efficiency, and equity of sub-sectoral funding by protecting the elementary education budget;
targeting resources to reduce the cost of schooling for poor children; devolving the School
Building Program (SBP), the cost of which will be shared between the Central and Local
Governments; and rationalizing staff deployment; (b) ensure that basic inputs are delivered to
project schools through community involvement and more transparent operations, and improve
school and classroom processes; (c) introduce systems and procedures to decentralize selected
education functions and the corresponding resources, to the Divisions and, where feasible, the
schools; (d) measure the impact of project interventions on cost and learning to guide decision-
making; and (e) provide a Framework for the orderly handling of Resettlement issues that may be



- 17-
raised by the SBP. A Memorandum of Policy, prepared by DECS and formally endorsed by the
Cabinet, outlines these directions (Annex 7).  Because the underlying implementation
arrangements require a number of exceptions to existing rules, they have been fonnalized in
Memoranda of Agreement (MoAs) between DECS, the Department of Finance (DoF), the
Department of Budget Management (DBM), and the Department of Public Works and Highways
(DPWH). Detailed TEEP Guidelines, designed to guide field practitioners in the day-to-day
implementation of the project, have been prepared. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GoP that it shall (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the principles set
forth in the Memorandum of Policy and with the TEEP Guidelines; (ii) exchange views with the
Bank prior to any modification to its Memorandum of Policy or to any of the MoAs with DoF,
DBM, and DPWH, that would materially and negatively affect the carrying out of the project,
and (iii) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the TEEP Guidelines without the prior
approval of the Bank As a Condition of Loan Effectiveness, the MoA with DoF, DBM, and
DPWH shall have become effective. As a Condition of Disbursement against the DEDPs, [the
final] TEEP Guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been adopted and put into effect by
DECS. One exception to this Disbursement Condition is "Instructional Materials", which require
immediate procurement action.
3.7  Investrnent Components.
(a)   Capacity-building at the National and Regional Levels. This component will:
(i) create a national structure for project management and capacity-strengthening;
(ii) build capacities in support of policy and decision-making; and (iii) build
capacities in support of decentralized implementation and effective schools
(estimated baseline cost, US$28.0 million or 6 percent of total base cost); and
(b)   Educational Improvement in 26 poor provinces.   This component will:
(i) strengthen capacities in the Divisional Offices, LGUs and other TEEP
stakeholders of the targeted provinces; (ii) develop and implement, on a phased
basis,  locally-prepared,  customized  Divisional  Elementary  Education
Development Plans (DEDPs) in the 26 provinces. With local variations, the Plans
are expected to: (i) improve learning through: the provision of textbooks/
instructional materials, in-service training (INSET) and pedagogic renovation,
and, awards from a School Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIF); (ii) raise
completion rates through: the construction/rehabilitation/repair and the provision
of equipment of fully equipped small multigrade village schools; community
mobilization; and demand-side interventions, mostly funded as pilots under SIIF;
(iii) expand access through: the provision of additional school places with
furniture and equipment (US$453.7 million, or 94 percent of total base cost).
3.8   The project will finance largely the same inputs as more traditional education projects.
However, the approach is different, with its bottom-up planning process, its emphasis on school
processes, systemic capacity-building and learning, and decentralization thrust.



- 18 -
D. FIRST COMPONENT: CAPACITY-BUILDING AT THE CENTRAL AND
REGIONAL LEVELS (US$28.0 MILLION)
3.9   This component will establish a national management structure, with antennae in the
TEEP Divisions, to help DECS manage the project and build capacities at key levels of the
system. It will be financed by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, with
the exception of the MIS, which is Bank-funded. Para. 4.7 summarizes the cofinancing plan. A
Condition of Effectiveness of the IBRD Loan is that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the OECF Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled
Sub-Component One: National Management Structure (US$6.7 million)
3.10  The Basic Education Steering Committee, an existing interagency high-level body chaired
by DECS Secretary, will be responsible for overall policy direction and interagency coordination.
A Project Management Advisory Committee (PMAC) composed of DECS managers and
stakeholder representatives (parents, LGUs, and an independent Group of Eminent Educators)
has been established to (a) provide overall management advice to the Project Director; (b) make
recommendations on proposed modifications to the TEEP Guidelines; (c) provide intra-
departmental coordination; and (d) articulate stakeholder perspectives and concerns to guide
project implementation. The Project Director -- DECS Undersecretary for Programs and
Operations -- will also be assisted in an advisory capacity by the concerned Regional Directors,
DECS Assistant Secretaries, and the Director of Elementary Education.
3.11  Project Implementation Support Unit (PISU). A PISU has also been established to:
(a) support and monitor TEEP day-to-day implementation at the national level, within the "TEEP
Guidelines"; and (b) build capacity in DECS. A PISU Manager, acceptable to the Bank, has been
appointed from DECS Bureau of Elementary Education. The PISU will be fully integrated in
DECS' Operations Complex and will eventually be merged into it. It will be staffed with (i) a
core of DECS personnel, seconded there because of their experience with sector project type of
approaches, acquired both during PRODED and TEEP preparation; (ii) national consultants with
strong experience in modern project and education management techniques; and (iii) on a
rotating basis, DECS staff who will join the PISU for developmental assignments, then return to
their base unit to become agents of institutional change; some PISU functions will even be
directly located in DECS existing units, with consultant inputs where required by the use of new
techniques or approaches. The combination of regular/temporary staff and consultants should
provide continuity and ownership, sustainability yet enough flexibility to survive a possible
restructuring of DECS during implementation. Annex 8 provides the organizational chart.
3.12  The national managerial, professional and technical assistance services and related
training, equipment, and vehicles required by PISU, including the specialist services for
capacity-building in the provinces, will be procured under an umbrella-contract to be reviewed
by the Bank and OECF. The selection process will follow OECF procedures. As a Condition of
Disbursement against the DEDPs, GoP shall have appointed the following PISU's key
consultant staff: facilities specialist, procurement specialist and a TEEP Advisor in each of the
six pilot provinces, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank



- 19-
Sub-Component Two: Support to Policy and Decision-Making (US$9.6 million)
3.13  All the capacity-building (CB) sub-components will, with variations, begin with the
establishment of a TEEP Support Team (one each for Research/Strategic Thinking, Assessment,
MIS Statistics, Budget/Finance, Instructional Material, INSET, etc...) consisting of regular DECS
staff and one PISU consultant, and based either in the PISU or in the relevant DECS entity. Each
Support Team will (a) provide support to decentralized implementation in its particular area of
responsibility; (b) organize training for DECS staff in a new way of performing their functions
and, where appropriate (research, assessment, management training ...), manage, with assistance
from PISU's Procurement Team, a program of contracts with outside specialized agencies.
Management training will be under the overall responsibility of the National Educators Academy
of the Philippines (NEAP), operating under contracts with private consultants.
3.14. Research and Evaluation. To give DECS' management access to quality policy analysis,
TEEP will support a national Policy Research Unit, to be established outside DECS through
local competition. The Unit and other sub-contractors will carry out studies and rigorous
evaluations related to: (a) determinants of student drop-out from elementary school (20 percent);
(b) impact of project reforms on student learning and school completion (50 percent); and
(c) other topics, such as the cost and benefits of adding an 11th year to basic education, at the
request of the Secretary (20 percent). It will also disseminate the results of all research,
evaluation and assessment carried out under TEEP (10 percent). PISU will act as liaison with the
Policy Unit, identify emerging issues and commission the studies. Details are in the Borrower's
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Bank's Technical Volume (TV).
3.15 Assessment. Feeding into these evaluations, the project will improve the quality of
information on student leaming achievement, following on the recommendations of a national
workshop on Assessment Systems (November 1993). This will include: (a) capacity-building in
national assessment strategies; (b) visits by national sampling consultants; (c) development and
implementation of national assessment tests; and (d) higher degree studies in assessment. TEEP
will contract a strong national institution with good international linkages to help the National
Education Testing Research Center (NETRC) to (i) develop a national sample-based assessment
system, (ii) administer tests in mathematics, science, English and/or Filipino to approximately
1,000 students per grade in Grades 2, 4, and 6; and (iii) provide teachers in TEEP provinces with
additional support in developing curriculum-based formative assessments. Details are in the
Technical Volume. Assurances were received at negotiations that GoP shall administer the
national sample-based assessment tests (i) in all active Project Provinces in 1998, 2000, and
2002; and (ii) in accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank.
3.16  MIS, Statistics and Planning. Based on a pilot educational MIS developed in three
Divisions during preparation, the which project will: (a) improve data quality by reducing the
demands placed on schools and familiarizing them with data-based monitoring; (b) train DECS-
CO, RO and DO staff in the use of this new MIS to support policy-making, scenario
development and resource targeting, participatory planning for the DEDPs, decentralization of
decision-making to the DOs, and performance monitoring for increased transparency and
accountability. The new MIS will be implemented in DECS CO, the 11 concerned Regional
Offices, the 26 TEEP Divisional Offices, 50 selected District Offices and a few selected schools.



- 20 -
The MIS is the only element of the first component to be funded by the IBRD Loan. The Loan
will finance training, specialist services, and equipment.
Sub-Component Three: Support to Decentralized Implementation and Effective Schools
(US$11.7 million)
3.17  Budget and Finance.  To address the issues identified in the Bank's 1995 Public
Expenditure Review, the project will assist DECS Financial/Management and Planning Service
Units (FMS) in developing standards and procedures to (a) improve allocative effectiveness and
efficiency, especially expenditure targeting; (b) ensure that funds flow directly to TEEP
provinces and in selected cases, to schools; (c) improve budget presentation and monitoring,
beginning in FY98; (d) tighten the linkage between policies, allocations, and delivery of
education. Personnel Management. To improve the utilization and productivity of education
personnel in the TEEP provinces, under the project DECS' FMS will commission manning
studies and operational research. The results, which will guide the revision of staffing norms,
will be discussed at the joint annual reviews.
3.18  Quality Inputs. Three programs which are critical to quality improvement and the change
process underlying TEEP -- textbooks and instructional materials, in-service training, and a
School Improvement and Innovation Facility -- will be implemented at the provincial level, with
the center and regions playing a support role. They are described beginning in para. 3.23.
3.19  Advocacy. The project will: (a) inform potential stakeholders (parents, community
leaders, LGUs, DECS staff) of TEEP's objectives, approaches, and implementation modalities to
gain their active support; (b) help ensure that DECS staff at all levels understands and supports
the value of the participatory, grassroots approach to DEDP planning and of decentralized
management. Community mobilization methods will be used, in coordination with a series of
audio-visual communications and targeted media messages. Based in PISU, with support from
the Regional Offices, the Advocacy team will: (i) conduct research, formulate strategy, manage
the production work and community mobilization training; (ii) develop material in accordance
with standard communications practice including pre-testing and impact/efficiency evaluation;
and (iii) develop in DECS the expertise to manage the program. Furthermore, each concerned
Regional Office will run a TEEP "Hot-Line" and "Help Desk" to answer queries from, and
mobilize support to, project implementors. Details are in the PIP and the TV.
3.20  Preparation Facility. To support the participatory planning of the remaining 20 DEDPs,
and their start-up activities, the project will finance a Preparation Facility. DEDP Preparation
Guidelines form part of TEEP Guidelines.
E. SECOND COMPONENT: ELEMENTARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT IN 26
POOR PROVINCES (US$453.7 MILLION)
3.21  What are the DEDPs? The DEDPs are sub-projects prepared by divisional planning
teams following TEEP Guidelines developed by DECS-CO with World Bank assistance and with
extensive stakeholder consultations. Although the provinces are pre-targeted, approval of their



- 21 -
DEDP is subject to compliance with eligibility criteria. The horizon of the DEDPs is five years,
with detailed Annual Work Plans and Budgets, all to be approved by the TEEP Director on the
recommendation of PISU. Provinces that do not deliver on their contractual commitments will
be suspended after two years, and others, substituted for them. Despite local variations, a core of
interventions has emerged from the six pilot DEDPs (para. 3.3). To ensure high-quality start-up
and create the conditions for institutionalization, emphasis is being placed on upfront
development of capacities, systems and procedures. The focus is on the creation of more
"Effective Schools" in poor rural areas, and the entire system is being reorganized to support that
approach. Implementation will be the responsibility of the DOs. Annex 9 summarizes the key
elements of TEEP Guidelines governing DEDP preparation. The DEDPs for the six pilot
provinces are in the TV. At negotiations, GoP gave assurances that each DEDP shall be
prepared and appraised in consultation with the Bank. As a Condition of Disbursement against
the DEDPs, GoP shall, in respect of the DEDPs for each of the six pilot provinces, cause the
respective DECS- DO to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
the respective provincial and municipal LGUs, parent representatives, and other concerned
parties which shall set forth the obligations of each party to implement such DEDP in
accordance with the TEEP Guidelines.
3.22 This component will: (a) strengthen the capacity of (i) DECS Divisional Offices (DO) as
the basic TEEP provincial management structure; (ii) the LGUs, Parents-Teachers Associations
(PTAs), Teacher Education Institutes (TEIs), Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and
communities, so that they actively support TEEP; and (c) develop and implement the DEDPs.
Sub-Component One: Divisional/Provincial Management Structure and Capacity-Building
(US$32.5 million)
3.23  Divisional Offices. Until now mere administrators and implementors, the Division
Superintendents are becoming managers. In partnership with other stakeholders, they will
(a) oversee the preparation of the DEDPs; (b) cooperate with the Provincial School Boards to
mobilize more resources from the SEF and secure endorsement of the DEDPs; (c) implement the
DEDPs; and (d) use the School Boards as "democratic oversight mechanisms". The Regional
Offices' role will evolve towards support/mentoring and monitoring. Other partners of the DOs
will be: the Municipalities and their Engineering Offices, who will implement the school
building program (SBP); TEIs and other consultants for training; NGOs as service providers, and
the private sector, as a potential source of additional funding.
3.24 Each Divisional Superintendent will be assisted by one TEEP Adviser plus three
months/year of other short-term technical specialist services on demand. The Advisers will not
substitute for the DO staff, who will remain in charge, but will provide on-the-job training,
analyses and recommendations for action. The duration (3 years on average) and nature of this
assistance may vary depending on the pace at which existing DO staff acquire the new skills
required for implementing TEEP. Benchmarks will help the DOs monitor their performance.
3.25 GoP and donor funds will flow directly to the DOs via DECS, and the DOs are being
reinforced by GoP to handle their new financial responsibilities, described in para. 4.36. The new



- 22 -
MIS, designed to help the Divisions in making school-mapping and other allocative decisions,
and in monitoring TEEP, will be installed in the DOs. Working closely with DECS-CO's
various Support Teams, the new DOs will outcontract support services such as INSET or local
adaptation of materials. The specialist services to provide technical support and training will be
financed by OECF under the PISU umbrella -contract, with the Bank Loan financing civil works
and equipment for the DOs. Annex 10 and the TV provide details on decentralization.
3.26  Non-DECS Stakeholders.  To mobilize support for TEEP and institutionalize its
participatory approaches, this group will receive induction and training in areas such as TEEP's
principles and design, communications, and management. The stakeholders include the LGUs,
which will share in the cost of the school building program, and, through their Engineering
Offices, will participate in its implementation; PTAs, which will play an increased role as schools
are "empowered" and elect a School Management Advisory Committee; NGOs, which will be
involved in the advocacy campaign, training, school construction, some of the pilots, and the
yearly participatory performance audit. The Loan will finance workshops and materials.
3.27 School Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIFP. The SIIF is a tool for pedagogic
decentralization and for targeting, with two windows. At the National level, it will pilot-test
alternative new approaches to issues of national relevance. This window will be managed by
PISU, in liaison with DECS Units. At the Divisional level, SIIF will target resources at
"marginalized" schools to engage them in diagnosing their problems and in defining and
implementing their own improvement plans. All schools (and clusters) will be classified in one
of three risk categories based on agreed criteria and will compete on the basis of two-year school
improvement plans (SIPs) emphasizing school-based quality enhancement. About 1,700 grants,
ranging between US$ 1,000 - US$3,000 equivalent, will be awarded.
3.28  The District and Division Supervisors will be trained respectively, to support preparation
of the proposals, and to review them. Two thirds of the grants will be for clusters, so that about
4,000 schools (out of 9,500) could benefit. The SIIF proposals will be subject to rigorous
monitoring by the DOs, and spot-checks by PISU. NGOs may be involved in an implementing
or monitoring capacity. The advocacy campaign will disseminate success stories, and there will
be a vearly stock-taking exercise. SIIF Guidelines, which are part of the TEEP Guidelines, have
been finalized and will be tested during PYI, and deployed by PY2. Annex 11 and the TV
provide details, including eligibility criteria. The Bank Loan will fund the demand-side
interventions (paras. 3.38-3.39), and OECF, the remainder of SIIF activities.
3.29  Below are examples of SIIF proposals, which are detailed in Annex 11, Table 11.1:
*  School Empowerment to encourage schools and their communities to diagnose their
problems and define their own strategies.
*  School Improvement Plans, including experiments such as a more flexible approach
to school attendance, environmental measurement, exchanges between schools, etc.
*  Indigenization of Material and Curriculum and training of indigenous teachers to
assist with the transition from the vernacular to the languages of instruction, and to
promote culturally appropriate minority education (Annex 11, Part Two).



- 23 -
* Community-based, Early Childhood Development Pilots to test different
organizational models (e.g. center vs. home-based).
. Addressing the needs of children in especially difficult circumstances (due to
exploitation, disabilities, etc...).
. Special, demand-side programs including school health and nutrition, modular
programs for migrant and nomadic children, etc.
* Vouchers to retain poor children in school (para. 3.39).
Sub-Component Two: Divisional Elementary Education Development plans
(US$421.2 million)
Improving Learning Achievements
3.30  Quality improvements are the best strategy to make school more interesting and retain
children. They can also generate savings through a more efficient flow of pupils. The project
will: (a) ensure the availability of textbooks and instructional materials in remote schools;
(b) revitalize in-service training (INSET) and refocus it on schools and pupil achievements; and
(c) use SIIF to support school-based experiments.
3.31  Textbooks and Instructional Materials. TEEP will: (a) ensure that every teacher and
every other pupil in the 26 provinces gets a basic set of quality books and instructional materials
at the beginning of the school year and knows how to use them; (b) support the policy and
institutional measures required to ensure an orderly transition to a fully private publishing sector.
An Instructional Materials Support Team will be trained in DECS-CO with assistance from
PISU. Until June 1998, textbooks will be reprints of books developed by the Instructional
Materials Development Center (IMDC), procured following Bank procedures. By SY98-99,
textbooks will have been published by the private sector based on DECS specifications and
approved by a team of DECS evaluators. Procurement will follow GoP procedures, under which
schools will choose from approved DECS lists. DECS is receiving technical assistance from the
Asian Development Bank to develop a full textbook distribution system.
3.32   For all of the 26 provinces, TEEP will provide since PYl one set (= 4) of textbooks for
two pupils. Although less than presently prescribed by DECS, this is considered adequate, is
more sustainable, and will promote prioritization on core disciplines. To contain costs and
promote individual learning, the Grade I - III books will be in an abridged, modular form. In
multigrade schools each classroom will each receive a science corner and a reading corner to
facilitate independent or small group work, and for each pupil, a set (= 3) of learning guides and
workbooks. Each one of the project's classroom and 9,500 schools will receive a kit of
instructional material. Monograde schools will be equipped with a supplementary library (two
copies of 200 books each). Teachers, principals and supervisors will be trained, for the short-
term, in a more creative use of textbooks and other reading material, and for the medium-term,
when schools have choice, in the selection of textbooks. The Loan will finance paper and a
reprint of the above materials in all 26 provinces in PY1, and school/classroom kits of
instructional materials. For the remaining PYs, the textbooks will be GoP-funded. Assurances
were received at negotiations that GoP shall, by March 31, 1997, prepare, in consultation with



- 24 -
the Bank, a textbook distribution plan with the goal ofproviding a set of two textbooks per pupil
in allpublic elementary schools including in the most remote areas and implement it thereafter.
3.33 INSET for Teachers, Principals and Supervisors. To create more adaptive, effective
schools that produce independent, critical thinkers, the project will revitalize INSET in the 26
provinces. School and cluster-based, the new INSET will develop teachers into learning
facilitators capable of responding to pupils' diverse needs, and principals/supervisors into
proactive team-leaders. Thus, it will emphasize pedagogy along with subject matter. Some
50,000 teachers and 2,000 administrators, i.e., all staff, will participate. Divisions will become
codesigners and "clients", instead of mere participants in INSET. The INSET program was
designed to support a pedagogical reform characterized by: (a) a heightened role for district
supervisors in providing instructional leadership to remote rural schools; (b) the clustering of
schools; (c) school-based management, with various degrees of fiscal and pedagogical autonomy
given to schools, their principals, school-management advisory committees and communities.
The TV provides a detailed plan for implementing the reform.
3.34  The INSET program, which will rely on a four-tiered referral system and an horizontal
resource network system, involves three distinct phases. PYI will be a phase of planning and
capacity-building. Support teams consisting of three to four people at the national level, and
three to four for each Region/Division will be formed and trained for three to four weeks by
national and international consultants. Divisional mobile teams of four trainers for 30 teachers
will be trained by the support team with assistance of consultants such as TEIs. Overtime, the
plan is to increasingly outsource INSET. Beginning in PY2, the mobile teams will deliver the
training to schools and clusters, at the rate of five days p.a. This five-days on-site training will
be complemented by five days residential training p.a., normally at the district level, clinic-style.
In parallel, school and cluster-based "Learning Action Cells" (or LACs) will begin meeting once
a month, operating as professional networks. Formative team evaluation and feedback will be
built-in, and a full impact evaluation, scheduled for the mid-term review (2000). The third phase
will integrate distance education into the face-to-face program, to accelerate coverage and
improve sustainability. It will begin with a one-year research-action phase, initially limited to
two carefully selected districts per province. The pace and modalities of expansion will be
reviewed annually. The TV contains the full INSET and distance education programs.
3.35 The Loan will finance workshops, equipment, training materials, especially TEEP
Training Guidelines, vouchers for the DOs to purchase training services, 10 days per annum, for
a cumulative total of 52,000 teachers, supervisors and principals; (b) provision of simple
technologies in the 500 district-level lead schools (VCRs, cassettes on good teaching practice).
No honoraria will be paid, but trainees will earn credits towards promotions.
3.36   SIIF Activities. School Empowerment, School Improvements Plans, Curriculum and
Materials Indigenization, and Early Childhood Development programs are effective strategies to
improve learning (paras. 3.27 and 3.29). All will be piloted under the SIIF (Annex 11).



- 25 -
Raising Completion Rates
3.37  Table 2.2 suggests that a full drop-out reduction strategy must also (a) support special
programs and demand-side interventions to address the issues of health, high cost of public
schooling, and need for children to work; (b) mobilize communities; and (c) bring a complete,
better equipped elementary school closer to the "barangay" (village).
3.38  Demand-Side Interventions. To address the demand-side issues identified in the DEDPs,
the project will pilot special programs and fund them under SIIF because many of them, while
critical, are not mainstream to public education. GoP has committed up to five percent of total
DEDP base costs to these activities. The adoption and eventual expansion of pilot programs will
be conditional upon demonstrated LGU financial commitment and compliance with national
policies. As part of the participatory planning process, indigenous people will be encouraged to
voice their felt needs for culturally sensitive educational programs.
3.39 A priority intervention under this heading is demand-side financing. While TEEP's
quantity and quality improvements will make education more attractive, this pilot will make it
more affordable to the poor by offsetting direct and indirect private costs. The objective will be
to determine: (a) within a randomized, experimental setting, the relative effectiveness and the
feasibility of generalizing different demand-side interventions; and (b) the subsidy level that
would prove sufficient to induce enrollment without distorting other economic decisions. Based
on models from Latin America and Asia, the pilot will experiment with (i) small scholarships to
cover direct and indirect schooling costs; (ii) vouchers in lieu of tuition at any local school
(DECS approach for secondary education); and (iii) community vouchers to build and equip
schools where none exist. The impact on retention will be discussed at the joint annual reviews.
The Bank Loan will provide SIIF grants as seed money to develop, and mainstream if justified,
demand-side pilot interventions. Assurances were received at negotiations that GoP shall, (a) by
September 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, a proposed
strategy to address demand-side issues; (b) follow the criteria and procedures set forth in the
TEEP Guidelines for the informed participation of, and consultation with, a variety of
representative communities, in particular communities with indigenous peoples and ethnic
minorities, to ensure that the design and implementation thereafter of the DEDPs adequately
addresses the needs and cultural preferences of such communities.
3.40  Community Mobilization. The induction and training offered to provincial level
stakeholders (para. 3.26) will also be available to Municipal LGUs, School Management
Advisory Committees (elected from PTAs) and communities. Topics will include techniques to
ensure the sound operation of these bodies and partnerships.
3.41  Providing Complete Village Rural Schools and Improving the Physical Environment
These two interventions fall under the School Building Program, discussed below.



- 26 -
Expanding Access to Quality Elementary Education
3.42  School Construction and Equipment. The project will: (a) reduce the drop-outs caused
by distance from a complete school; (b) restore a classroom physical environment that is safe and
conducive to learning; and (c) expand access to reasonable quality education in poor rural areas.
3.43  Under (a), TEEP will provide all 6-12 year olds in the 26 provinces access to a complete
school less than one hour walk from home. This means promoting small multigrade schools as a
viable alternative. GoP is introducing hardship allowances for teachers and TEEP will fund cost-
effective packages of inputs designed to equalize quality between multi and monograde schools.
DECS has started developing for each province, in cooperation with UNICEF, two
demonstration multigrade clusters, adapted from Colombia's successful "Escuela Nueva" model.
The program will be based on the participatory school mapping exercise initiated during
preparation. The exact numbers, to be determined during implementation, fall under the total in
(c). Under (b) TEEP will, based on a province-by-province inventory of facilities, finance
repairs and rehabilitation of about 23,700 classrooms, the construction of toilets in 1,900 schools;
desks and furniture. To break the isolation of some of the more remote schools (25 km away
from the nearest District), it will test, where technically feasible, simple communication devices
such as cellular phones and one-way radios (two districts/province). The LGUs will provide
water or electricity connections. Under (c), TEEP will build about 6,300 new classrooms and
replace about 2,850 existing ones, using an index-based approach which combines real needs,
effectiveness, and the creation of economic opportunities through community construction. The
school mapping and community mobilization exercise will be repeated for each new TEEP
province. It will promote small multigrade, complete schools (3 classrooms, 6 grades) with a
catchment below one hour's walk, rather than large schools with a wider catchment. Moving
away from standardized models poorly adapted to local conditions, six school prototypes have
been developed -- for mono and multigrade classes, with variants for different terrains and
climatic conditions. The new norms are cost-conscious but integrate new pedagogical standards,
such as larger classrooms for multigrade and teacher quarters. The costing also reflects the
distances over which materials have to be carried.
3.44 Implementation will be delegated to the Municipalities through their Engineering
Departments, as this is likely to raise construction quality through more frequent supervision.
Details are in Annex 12 and the Technical Volume. For the GoP, this will ease the transition
towards devolution of school construction and maintenance, planned to be introduced in 1997,
and heighten Municipalities' commitment to the financing, management, and delivery of quality
elementary education. For the LGUs, it will improve the coherence of basic social services
delivery, promote synergy between the activities of the various municipal boards (education,
health), and, in the case of isolated barangays, create employment through the use of community
construction ("pakyaw"). Each DEDP will specify the scope of the civil works program, the
titling situation, the method of construction selected. The GoP has approved and adopted a
Framework for Resettlement which establishes principles and procedures. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from GoP that it shall apply the Framework for Resettlement for
purposes of providing compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation measures to persons
affected by land acquisition. The Loan will finance civil works contracts, materials and
furniture.



- 27 -
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. COST ESTIMATES
4.1     Summar of Costs. Total project cost, including duties and taxes, is estimated at about
Pesos 16.9 billion, or US$569.4 million equivalent. The net of tax cost would be US$518.6
million. Investment costs are 87 percent and incremental recurrent costs, 13 percent of total
baseline costs. The cost breakdown by component and categories of expenditures is given in
Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
Table 4.1: Summary Costs by Component
(Peso Million)               (USS
000)
Total                         Total
Base                          Base
Local Foreign Total Costs  Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
A. Capacity Building at NatnI & Reg'nl Levels
National Management Structure                   128      42   170     1   5,024   1,657   6,681      1
Support to Policy/Decision Making               233      12   245     2   9,165     478   9,643      2
Support to Decentralization                     244      55   299     2   9,580   2,157  11,736      2
Subtotal Capacity Building at Nat'ni & Reg'ni Levels  605  109   714    6  23,769   4,292  28,061      6
B. Elem. Educ. Improvement in 26 Prov.
Capacity Building at Provincial Level           708     119   827     7  27,800   4,682  32,482      7
DEDPs                                         8,292   2,428 10,719    87 325,809  95,389 421,198    87
Subtotal Elem. Educ. Improvement in 26 Prov.    8,999   2,547 11,546    94 353,610 100,070 453,680    94
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                            9,604   2,656 12,260   100 377,378 104,362 481,740   100
Physical Contingencies                          891    261  1,153     9  35,019  10,266  45,285      9
Prce Contingencies                            2,953    551  3,504    29  35,832   6,544  42,376      9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            13,449   3,468 16,917   138 448,229 121,173 569,402   118
4.2     Basis for Cost Estimates. Estimated costs for civil works are based on current unit costs
for construction which vary from US$180 (for classrooms) to US$250 (for Divisional Offices)
per square meter of gross floor area of construction. These costs are reasonable compared to
similar Bank-assisted construction in the Philippines. Costs of professional services also reflect
the fee scale established for similar services provided by local consulting firms. The cost
estimates for equipment, vehicles and educational materials are based on lists prepared by the
GoP. Furniture and consumable material costs are based on GoP estimates and reflect current
prices. The cost of teacher/pupil manuals are based on DECS experience with regard to those to
be reprinted, and on current publishing market prices with regard to those to be published;
Estimated salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales including standard
allowances.
4.3     Duties and Taxes. All imported goods are to customs duties and taxes. The total amount,
includes import duties and taxes, is estimated at about US$50.8 million.



- 28 -
4.4     Contingency Allowances. Project costs include physical contingencies (US$45.3 million)
at 10 percent of all physical components, operation costs and maintenance, and at five percent for
technical assistance and salaries. They also include price contingencies (US$42.4 million) based
on the standard regional and Bank-wide guidelines on inflation factors.
Table 4.2: Summary Costs by Category of Expenditure
(Peso Million)              (US$ '000)              %       % Total
Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total        Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
1. School Buildings             3,729     414  4,144       146,536     16,282  162,817         10        34
2. Other Buildings                196      22    218         7,695        855    8,550         10         2
Subtotal Civil works              3,925     436  4,361       154,231     17,137  171,367         10        36
B. Equipment/Furniture
1. Equipment                      65    1,765   1,830        2,547     69,342   71,889         96        15
2. Furniture                     213        -    213         8,384          -   8,384           -         2
Subtotal Equipment/Furniture       278    1,765  2,043        10,931     69,342   80,273         86        17
C. Textbooks and Inst. Materials
1. Instructional material        558      363    921        21,938     14,253   36,191         39         8
2. Communication material         54        6      60        2,117        235    2,352         10         -
Subtotal Textbooks and Inst.       612      369    981        24,054     14,488   38,542         38         8
Materials
D. Specialist Services             613       86    699        24,089      3,395   27,484         12         6
E. Training                      2,187        -  2,187        85,929          -  85,929           -        18
F. Special Programs & Grant        450        -   450         17,663              17,663          -         4
Total Investment Costs             8,065    2,656 10,721       316,898    104,362  421,260        25         87
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                       281        -   281         11,051          -  11,051           -         2
B. Operating Costs                 584        -    584        22,961          -  22,961           -         5
C. Supervision missions             26        -     26         1,016          -   1,016           -         -
D. Management sessions               0        -      0            14          -       14          -         -
E. Maintenance                     647        -   647         25,438          -  25,438           -         5
Total Recurrent Costs               1,539       -  1,539        60,481          -  60,481           -        13
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS               9,604   2,656 12,260        377,378    104,362  481,740        22        100
Physical Contingencies             891      261   1,153       35,019     10,266   45,285         23         9
Price Contingencies               2,953     551   3,504       35,832      6,544   42,376         15         9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                13,449   3,468 16,917       448,229    121,173  569,402        21        118
4.5     Foreign  Exchange  Component.   This component--US$121.2  million--was estimated
based  on  the  following  foreign  exchange  proportions:    (a)  civil works:    10  percent;
(b) equipment: 90 percent; (c) instructional materials: 35 percent; (d) international consultants:
100 percent; (e) consumables, operation and maintenance costs: 5 percent. Annex 14 shows
additional cost tables.
B.  FINANCING PLAN
4.6     The estimated project cost will be financed as follows:
(a)     The  GoP  will finance  US$307.4  million  (54  percent of total project costs
including taxes and duties), and the LGUs, US$43.9 million equivalent
(7.7 percent of total project cost);



- 29 -
(b)    The proposed IBRD Loan of US$113.4 million will finance 21.9 percent of total
project costs net of taxes and duties; it will be made to the Republic of the
Philippines which will make the funds available to DECS and the LGUs to
implement the project. The level of local cost financing by IBRD (17.5 percent)
is deemed appropriate; and
(c)    The OECF soft Loan of US$104.8 million equivalent will finance 20.2 percent of
total project costs net of taxes and duties.
Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million is proposed for eligible expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1996 under all disbursement categories except SIIF grants (category 5).
4.7    The financing plan by disbursement category is summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Categories and Financiers
(US$ OoO)
Government
of the
IBRD         OECF           LGUs          Philippines    Total   Duties &
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  Taxes
1. Civil Works             51,165  25.0   51,165  25.0  43,855  21.4   58,475  28.6  204,660  20,466
2. Equipment & Furniture    31,104  33.6   9,101   9.8       -    -   52,384  56.6   92,588   3,717
3. Materials, Kits&Textbooks    13,442  29.3   2,540   5.5   -    -   29,847  65.1   45,830   4,311
4. Training                 13,638  13.3       -    -        -    -   89,239  86.7  102,877  10,288
5. Specialist Services       1,825   5.9  26,254  85.3       -    -    2,704   8.8   30,783   2,704
6. Special Programs & Grant  2,204  11.1   15,743  78.9      -    -    1,994  10.0   19,940   1,994
7. Operation & Maintenance      -    -         -    -        -    -   60,109 100.0  60,109   6,011
8. Personnel                    -    -         -    -        -     -   12,616 100.0  12,616   1,262
TOTAL                      113,377  19.9  104,803  18.4  43,855   7.7  307,367  54.0  569,402  50,752
4.8    Since the LGUs' Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) will increase from  35 to 40 percent
of Internal Revenue Collections in 1997, the GoP proposes, in line with the provisions of the
LGC, to introduce through TEEP a cost-sharing between the Central and the Local Governments
for the School Building Program (SBP). This will (a) facilitate the transition towards the SBP's
full devolution; (b) allow GoP to target resources at poor LGUs, while expanding the resource
base by tapping the affluent LGUs. TEEP is the incentive for the 26 provinces to agree to the
cost-sharing. For the rest of the country, the incentive is that it will accelerate devolution of the
SBP. For TEEP purposes, the LGU share was estimated at 25 percent of total SBP cost on
average, with a range of 10-30 percent
C. PROCUREMENT
4.9    Procurement of all goods, works, SLIF grants and services funded under the Bank Loan
will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised in January and
August 1996, and "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981). Procurement of consultants, equipment,



- 30 -
training, SIIF and civil works funded in parallel by OECF will be carried under procedures
satisfactory to OECF. The procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.4.
4.10  Civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture, and educational materials will be bulked to
the extent possible and procured as follows:
(a)   individual contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to exceed US$250,000
equivalent, will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Document (January 1995). Under ICB, domestic
manufactures would be eligible for a margin of preference in bids evaluation of 15
percent of the c.i.f. costs of the competing imports or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower. No civil works contracts are expected to be procured under
ICB;
(b)  individual civil works contract estimated to cost between US$500,000 equivalent
and US$50,000 equivalent and individual contracts for the purchase of goods with
an estimated value between US$250,000 and US$50,000 equivalent will be
procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable
to the Bank;
(c)   individual civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent,
will be procured through simplified procurement procedures similar to national
shopping applying government procedures by comparing at least three price
quotations to be obtained through local advertising from small contractors within
the locality;
(d)  individual contracts for construction materials, in packages of less than
US$50,000 equivalent, will be procured through simplified national shopping
applying government procedures by comparing at least three price quotations to
be obtained through local advertising from small contractors within the locality;
(e)   works and goods (including 50 percent of school furniture) required for the SBP
will be directly contracted with community groups to increase sustainability
through community labor;
(f)   labor for small scale works in remote schools can be carried out by Municipalities
through Force Account e.g., using their own personnel and equipment, if no
contractor is interested in performing the works at a reasonable cost and no
community is interested in and/or capable of, performing the work.
4.11  Procurement Management. A Procurement Team to be established in the PISU at DECS-
CO will be directly responsible for ICB and will oversee/provide support to the 26 DOs, who
will handle all other procedures. Procurement will be handled by the Prequalification Bids and
Awards Commission (PBAC) which by law is mandated to oversee the bidding process. For
ICB, to be handled by DECS-CO, the PBAC is chaired by one Under or Assistant Secretary and
includes technical staff and a lawyer. For the DOs, procurement will be handled by DECS-DO



- 31 -
PBAC, with technical assistance from the Provincial Engineers/DPWH, and a legal counsel.
Procurement of school construction and repairs will be handled by the Municipalities, with
DECS-DO monitoring. Except for community works which will be contracted directly,
Municipalities will procure works and construction materials through the Municipal PBAC in
which representatives of the concerned communities/schools will participate.  Annex 12
describes the civil-works management arrangements.  Technical oversight/support will be
provided at DECS-CO and DO levels until pre-agreed benchmarks of performance are met.
4.12  Civil Works. (a) The construction of 14 DOs, with an aggregate amount of US$3.1
million, and an estimated unit cost per site of about US$240,000 for the new office buildings,
will be carried out through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Due to the phased
implementation and the wide dispersion of sites, works cannot be aggregated under large
contracts and will not be attractive to foreign contractors. Procurement will be managed by the
respective DECS-DO PBACs with technical assistance from the Engineering Offices/DPWH,
which are familiar with works of comparable scale and will receive procurement training from
PISU; (b) construction/expansion of functional rooms in thb- 238 District Offices, with an average
unit cost of US$24,000 for each, and partial refurbishing of all other DOs, ROs and Baguio
Training Center (for Education Personnel), with an average unit cost of US$46,000 for each, will
be carried out through simplified procedures similar to national shopping (para. 4.10.c) by the
respective DECS-DO PBACs. The aggregated amount is estimated as US$6.5 million. (c) Other
civil works are the construction of 9,150 classrooms, 1,900 school office rooms for school heads
and staff, 2,000 school toilets and rehabilitation/repair of 23,700 existing classrooms, with an
total aggregated amount of US$194.9 million, and unit costs estimated at: (i) US$21,600-32,000
for each site of two to three new classrooms, (ii) US$4,800 and US$1,120 for each school office
room and set of school toilets, respectively; (iii) US$1,600 and US$4,800 for classroom
rehabilitation's and repairs, respectively.  All those works will be carried out under the
responsibility of Municipal Engineering Offices following one of four options, based on the
criteria given in para 4.10 (c) through (f) and ranked by decreasing order of preference: flnl,
simplified procurement procedures similar to national shopping through their respective
municipal PBAC; second, direct contract with communities; third, combination of simplified
procurement procedures similar to national shopping for the supply of site materials and direct
contract with communities for labor (Pakyaw); and, fkih, Force Account, with an aggregated
amount not to exceed US$39 million. The most appropriate options will be determined during
DEDP preparation and will be specified in the Memoranda of Agreement to be signed by the
LGUs and DECS DOs to become an integral part of the DEDPs (Technical Volume, Annex 10).
4.13 Goods (Equipment, kits. instructional materials. furniture). (a) The items to be procured
through ICB (total: US$71.0 million) are: computers for central, regional, divisional and district
offices; equipment and vehicles for distance education; copiers, textbooks and/or textbook paper
and printing and distribution contracts; 50 percent of the standardized school/classroom kits; (b)
items to be procured through NCB (total US$28.4 million) are: the remaining 50 percent of the
school/classroom kits, based on individual school needs and on an annual phased basis (with a
unit average amount estimated at US$170,000 by each of the 26 DOs); 50 percent of the school
furniture, with individual value per contract between US$50,000 and US$250,000; (c) other
procurement methods (total US$10.7 million) will apply to contracts managed by each DO on a



- 32 -
phased annual basis, with an individual value below US$50,000, including: (i) the remaining 50
percent of the school furniture, which will be purchased through national shopping with
comparison of at least three price quotations, or direct contracts with communities in order to
involve them through the use of local labor; (ii) other equipment for the Divisions/Districts, to be
procured through national shopping.
4.14  Local and Foreign Consultancy Contracts (US$31.1 million). The bulk of consultant
services will be funded by the OECF Loan under procedures acceptable to OECF, and includes:
(a) the technical assistance to DECS-CO and the 26 DOs; (b) contracts with NGOs for the yearly
independent participatory audit; (c) the Eminent Educators Group, which will meet with the
TEEP Management Advisory Committee at least twice a year or at the request of the Project
Director, (d) assistance to management training, Monitoring and Evaluation and IEC.
Consultancies funded by IBRD include: (a) MIS development, implementation and training and
(b) contract services for INSET. Consultants' services contracts shall be awarded in accordance
with the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" (August 1981). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultant services issued by the Bank.
4.15  IBRD Review. Contracts for goods estimated at US$1.0 million or more, and consultant
services contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals) will be subject
to prior review by IBRD. With respect to all consultant services contracts in particular,
irrespective of value, prior review will be required for (a) terms of reference; (b) single source
contracts; (c) all assignments of critical nature (because of environmental safety or public health
considerations); and (d) contracts amendments raising the value to US$100,000 or above for
firm, (US$50,000 or - above for individuals). No civil works contracts are expected to reach the
Bank threshold of US$5.0 million for prior review. Works will be carried out under NCB
procedure. For each Division, each year the first NCB contract for works and the first two NCB
contracts for goods will be subject to prior review by IBRD. All the ICB and NCB contracts
which are not pre-reviewed, will be post reviewed by the Bank. For national shopping and direct
contracts (SBP), the post-review process by the Bank will cover an estimated 25 percent of the
total contracts in the first two years and, if the result is satisfactory, may be gradually reduced the
following years, to not less than five percent. The percentage of total contract values that will be
covered by the Bank's prior review will be 70 percent for goods and 1.5 percent for works.
4.16  Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt reporting
of contract award information by the Borrower; (b) comprehensive quarterly reports from PISU
to IBRD covering: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the whole project;
(ii) revised timing of the procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract awards
and completion time for individual contracts and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement.



- 33 -
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements
In Millions Of Dollars, Including Provisions
Procurement Method
International     National
Procurement Elements                   Competitive      Competitive        Other'           NBF2             Total3
Bidding         Bidding
School Buildings                              -               -B            194.9                -            194.9
(48.7)                           (48.7)
Other Buildings                               -              3.1              6.5                -              9.6
(0.8)           (1.6)                             (2.4)
Computers                                   3.1                -                -                -              3.1
(2.5)                                                              (2.5)
Reproduction Equipment                      0.6                -                -                -              0.6
(0.0)                                                              (0.0)
Communication                               0.9              0.9              0.0                -              1.9
(0.8)                                             (0.8)
Other Equipment                               -                -              3.1                -              3.1
School Furniture                              -              4.8              4.8                -              9.6
(1.2)           (1.2)                             (2.4)
Other Fumiture                              0.0              0.2                -                -              0.2
(0.0)                                                              (0.0)
School and classroom Kits                  50.0             22.4                -                -             72.4
(17.5)           (7.9)                                             (25.3)
Vehicles                                     1.7               -                -                -              1.7
Instructional Materials (published)         5.2                                 -             28.4             33.5
(4.7)                                                             (4.7)
Instructional Materials (reprint)           6.7                                                  -              6.7
(6.1)                                                              (6.1)
Textbook Paper                              2.7                -                -                -              2.7
(2.7)                                                              (2.7)
Communication Materials                       -                -              2.8              0.4              3.2
(0.1)           (0.1)
Training - Accommodation                      -                -                -             48.3             48.3
Training Mat & Trainers                       -                -             48.1                -             48.1
(12.0)                           (12.0)
Workshop                                      -                -              5.8                -              5.8
(1.4)                            (1.4)
SIIF                                                                         10.4                -             10.4
(2.2)                            (2.2)
Assessment                                    -                -              5.5                -              5.5
Research                                      -                -              4.1                -              4.1
Consultants                                   -              0.1             31.1                -             31.1
(0.0)           (1.9)                             (1.9)
Personnel                                     -                -                -             12.6             12.6
Maintenance                                   -                -                -             53.4             53.4
Operating Cost                                -                -                -              6.7              6.7
Total                                    71.0             31.5            317.1            149.8            569.4
(33.5)          (10.7)           (69.1)            (0.1)          (113.4)
1    Other Procurement methods apply to contracts of individual value below US$50,000 that include: (i) National Shopping
for annually phased procurement of small scale works and site-materials, (ii) Direct contracts with local Communities
(pakyaw) for labor-intensive works as classroom constructions and furniture, (iii) Municipal force account when works are
too small or in areas too remote to attract contractors; and consultant services.
2    NBF means "non Bank financed".
Figures in parentheses are the anounts financed by IBRD; totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.



- 34 -
D. DISBURSEMENTS
4.17 Disbursement Profile. The proposed IBRD Loan will be disbursed over seven and a half
years, to reflect the standard profile for PHR projects in the Philippines, plus the fact that the last
"batch" of provinces will be appraised in PY3. The project is expected to be completed on
December 31, 2003 and the Loan, closed on June 30, 2004. The experience with other education
projects reinforces the justification for a standard disbursement profile. Annex 16 shows
forecasts of expenditures and disbursements.
4.18   Disbursement Percentages. The IBRD Loan will be disbursed as follows:
Disbursement Category            IBRD Allocation              % of Expenditure to be
in US$ million              Financed by the Loan
1) Civil Works                              46.5                        50%
2) Goods (other than textbooks
and instructional materials)
(a) School and classroom kits           23.0                         35%
(b) School furniture                      2.2                        50%
(c) Other goods                           3.1           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
3) Textbooks and instructional materials    12.2            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
4) Training                                 12.4            100% of foreign expenditures and 25% of
local expenditures
5) SIIF Grants                               2.1                        90%
6) Consultants' services                     1.8                        100%
7) Unallocated                              10.1
Total                                      113.4
4.19   Documentation  requirements.   Disbursements will follow  two  parallel channels:
(a) DECS for all TEEP expenditures other than the School Building Program (SBP, covering
school construction, rehabilitation and repair); and (b) the Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
for the SBP. AAA. Non-SBP disbursements will fall under three categories: (i) for training and
workshops, they will be made against Statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared by DECS-
DOs and consolidated by DECS-CO for submission to the Bank (and OECF); (ii) for goods and
services under contracts of less than US$1.0 million for goods and US$5.0 million for civil
works, they will also be made against SOEs, with supporting documentation retained by the DOs
for review by IBRD supervision missions; (iii) all other disbursements will be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications. BBB. For SBP expenditures, the initial payments to
contractors will be made directly by the Municipal LGUs, in tranches (4 per school) out of their
own resources (which in turn could be covered partly by MDF advances out of GoP counterpart
funds). At monthly intervals, they will be reimbursed by the MDF (through the Offices of Local
Treasurers). The Municipalities will maintain complete records, by site, of works completed and
funds disbursed, including Certificates of Completion signed by the Municipal Engineer and



- 35 -
countersigned by the Mayor and the Division Superintendent or his/her designated
Representative.
4.20  Special Accounts. To accelerate disbursements and, in the case of DECS, allow for direct
payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, GoP will open and maintain two
Special Accounts (SA) within an Authorized Government Deposit Bank (AGDB): (a) one to be
managed by DECS-CO; and (b) the other one managed by the MDF. Both SAs will be in US
Dollars and will have an Authorized Allocation (AA) of US$3 million each, based on four
months of expected expenditures. IBRD will make an initial deposit of US$1.5 million on each
SA. For each SA, the full amount of the AA will be released when disbursements for their
respective components equal or exceed US$20 million. Applications for replenishment of the
SAs supported by appropriate documentation will be submitted monthly by DECS-CO and
MDF. IBRD will replenish the SAs upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible
expenditures. Similar arrangements will be made for OECF funds.
4.21 GoP Advances to the TEEP Provinces. AAA. DECS-DOs will make payments related to
all non SBP expenditures planned in their approved DEDP, while the MDF will be responsible
for SBP-related payments. For DECS-managed expenditures, in each Division, there will be two
separate accounts, one funded by the DECS SA--called WB Project Account (WBPA)--and the
other for GoP counterpart funding--called Government Project Account (GPA). In each TEEP
province, DECS-DO will open a WBPA in the AGDB local branch, and DECS-CO will transfer
to it, from the SA, an initial advance equivalent to 90 days of estimated expenditures. The
DECS-DOs will be responsible for transmitting to DECS-CO satisfactory proof of incurred
eligible expenditures for preparation of replenishment applications. In parallel, DECS-CO will
delegate to each DECS-DO their approved DEDP budget allocation except for the SBP
expenditures, and DBM will transfer the funds to each Division-level GPA. BBB. For SBP-
related expenditures, budget allocations will be deposited into an MDF GPA at the central level.
The Bank's MDF SA will be used only to reimburse expenditures already financed out of the
GoP's SBP counterpart funds (deposited in the MDF GPA). No advances will be made out of
the MDF SA to the lower LGU levels. The MDF will make to the Municipalities an initial
advance from the GOP counterpart account, not to exceed 25 percent (on average) of the total
cost of the SBP for the year and LGU in question.  Subsequent MDF transfers to the
Municipalities will be reimbursements of actual expenditures. Similar procedures will be
followed for OECF.
E. AUDITS AND ACCOUNTING
4.22  Project expenditures will be recorded using the central Government's accounting
procedures as promulgated by the Commission on Audit (COA). Audits of project accounts,
both SAs and all PAs will be currently audited by the appropriate level of COA, according to
GoP's procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. The current recording system will be
slightly modified to easily segregate the project accounts and facilitate audit later on.
Documentation processes will also follow the GoP's procedures.



- 36 -
4.23 Civil Works Audits. Every month the MLGUs will summarize project transactions and
send copies of them, together with supporting evidence, to DECS-DOs. The MLGUs will
prepare the corresponding SOEs and transmit copy of them to COA for certification prior to their
submission to MDF for replenishment. Local COA will establish ex-post whether its standards
have been complied with. Should COA determine that this is not the case, the corresponding
amounts will be automatically deducted from the next invoice submitted by the MLGU.
4.24  Audits of Project Accounts. The Statement of Expenditures and the Special Accounts
will follow a well developed procedure acceptable to the Bank. SOE supporting documentation
will be maintained at least a year after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal was made. The audit report covering a one year period will be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of the audit period.
4.25  Participatory Performance Audits (PPA). Every year, the joint annual review will be
based on a report combining the traditional financial indicators and a PPA to be conducted (four
month prior to the review) by NGOs in all the active TEEP Provinces. The PPAs will focus on
(i) delivery and use of instructional materials; and the use of beneficiary assessment techniques
to identify stakeholders' perception of problems and acceptable resolutions; (ii) delivery and
classroom impact of the INSET program; (iii) implementation of the SBP; (iv) frequency and
impact of contacts between school and community; and (v) progress in making teaching/learning
process more interactive. TORs are in the Technical Volume.
F. IMPLEMENTATION
4.26  Project implementation will be characterized by piloting, phasing, and incremental levels
of complexity, as project entities(DOs, schools...) demonstrate increases in absorptive capacity.
Because the last batch of TEEP provinces will come on stream in PY3, implementation will last
a total of seven years. Annual resource allocations based on national and divisional work plans
and budgets, will allow detailed implementation monitoring. During PYI, implementation will
be limited to the national level and the first six pilot provinces; it will concentrate on capacity-
building, and on testing the pilots, procedures, and systems, developed during preparation,
including the contracting of service suppliers, the MIS, the development of demonstration school
and clusters, and devolution of school construction/maintenance to LGUs. Preparation of the
next "batch" of 8 provinces will be initiated, building on lessons learned from the pilots.
4.27 Project Launch Workshops (PLWs). One initial PLW will be organized with donor
participation, followed by province-specific PLWs by the DECS Team. The goal will be to
ensure that (a) all stakeholders have a common understanding of all project components,
(b) donor procedures for procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing, and legal aspects are
fully understood; (c) all implementors are clear about their work program for PYI; (d) lessons
from the preparation process are learned for the benefit of the next batch of provinces. In
subsequent years, donors will participate selectively in PLWs. Video-cassettes will be taped for
the Bank's input.



- 37 -
4.28  Joint Annual Reviews.  Each year the Project Director, based on the technical
recommendation of the PISU, and on the monitoring reports of the Regional Officials and Project
Management Advisory Committee, will conduct, by September 30, (a) a review of new DEDP
proposals on the basis of the TEEP Guidelines and (b) a review of on-going DEDPs based on
physical, qualitative and financial data collected through the participatory performance audit
(PPA). The review will look at work plans and budgets against progress as reported by PISU and
donors. The format for progress reporting and workplans is presented in the TEEP Guidelines.
By March 30 of each year, another review will focus on budget requirements for the next FY. At
negotiations, GoP gave assurances that based on agreed Terms of Reference, it shall furnish to
the Bank. (i) a quarterly Progress Report by February 28 (Budget Review), May 31, August 31,
and November 30 of each year; (ii) a full annual Report by August 31 of each year; and (iii) a
mid-term Report on or about August 31, 2000.
4.29 Mid-term Review. This review, to be held by September 30, 2000, will assess: (a) the
status of implementation, (b) the likelihood that the objectives will be achieved at the end of the
project; (c) the project's likely impact after completion; (d) sustainability. It will determine the
work/study program for the rest of TEEP's life, including a draft plan for ensuring sustainability.
4.30  Supervision. The Supervision Plan is in Annex 13. The PISU will organize two
supervision - cum - training missions/year per province. The donors will conduct semi-annual
missions and may join any of the PISU missions to the Provinces. This will require the use of
PISU national consultants whose reports will be shared with the donors. The main annual review
with donors will be based on the PPAs. Donors supervision missions will be thematic. TEEP
Guidelines will be reviewed in light of experience. Changes will have to be endorsed by the
Steering Committee and reviewed by the donors. A special focus of supervision will be the
quality of the appraisals conducted by PISU for the second and third batch, and the effectiveness
of the PPAs to be conducted partly by NGOs.
4.31  Implementation Completion Report. Within six months of the Closing Date, PISU will
submit project data required by the Bank to prepare an ICR, including a sustainability plan. This
will be a participatory exercise. The findings will be shared to learn from the experience.
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.32  Baseline data were established for all project components, although an important
capacity-building exercise during PYI will be to validate these data to strengthen monitoring.
Starting from this base, the instruments to be used to monitor project implementation and its
impact on the sub-sector in the targeted provinces include:
* Student assessments to be conducted in PY2, PY4 and PY6
* The research program, especially a survey of school-based determinants of quality
and drop-out, to begin in PYl
*  The MIS, which includes a module to track physical, qualitative and financial
performance against Divisional work plans and budgets (Technical Volume)
  The PISU quarterly progress reports and donors biannual supervision reports



- 38 -
* The (Divisional) participatory performance audits, to be collated as a basis for the
joint annual reviews
* The mid-term review (2000), to be preceded by a full blown Beneficiary Assessment
* Yearly implementors' conference on lessons learned.
4.33 The PISU, each TEEP DO, and each beneficiary school will have their own, more micro,
monitoring instruments. Training and specialist services are costed in the umbrella contract.
H. STATUS OF PREPARATION
4.34  The findings of the preparation studies have already been reflected in project design,
particularly regarding cost-effective educational investments, the importance of Early Childhood
programs in improving school readiness in early grades, the design of INSET, and the need to
pay attention to school processes and to develop a culture of information-based decision-making.
The appraisal process reviewed the sectoral financial policies, the six pilot DEDPs, the project's
management arrangements, DECS' Project Implementation Plan, and draft TEEP Guidelines.
New school designs and specifications are being finalized, as well as the criteria for selection of
the implementation method.  Workshops were organized with UNICEF to develop the
multigrade demonstration schools and with CIDA for the design and implementation of the
pedagogical decentralization reform. Procurement for textbook paper is about to be launched.
I. SUSTAINABILITY
4.35 At present education is primarily a Central Government expenditure responsibility. The
sector accounts for a relatively high share of GoP's budget (26 percent), which is to be
maintained, as per the Memorandum of Policy. However, within the education budget, there has
been a decline in the share of elementary education from its peak of 60 percent in 1987 to around
54 percent in 1993. LGUs have been active in financing education, with their average share
increasing from 2 percent in 1990 to about 7 percent in 1993. The school building program
(SBP) component of the overall education budget will be partially devolved to the LGUs in
1997. It is expected that the average shares of the LGUs in financing the SBP costs in their
localities will increase rapidly each subsequent year, with devolution substantially completed by
1999.
4.36 The DEDPs embrace the entire elementary education program for the 26 provinces. The
TEEP interventions result in substantial investments in these provinces that would not have
occurred without the project. Hence, it is important to ensure that the costs associated with the
implementation of the DEDPs are sustainable. The ability of the GoP to finance the project was
analyzed by comparing the projected GoP budget allocated to elementary education to the
projected subsidy associated with delivering elementary education in the TEEP provinces during
the project life. These comparisons identified the annual financing deficits/surpluses within each
budget category. The current GoP budget was projected to 2003 using the growth rates of
government consumption expenditure from the CAS and the capital account was projected using
the growth rates of government investment. The budgets were projected in three different



- 39 -
categories: personal services, maintenance and operating expenditures (MOOE) and capital
expenditures. According to the Memorandum of Policy, the share of the education budget
allocated to elementary education will increase from its current level (47 percent in 1995) to 60
percent in the year 2001 and stay constant thereafter. This assumption is built into the
projections of the GoP's budget constraint. Three alternate scenarios for projecting the GoP
budget constraint are analyzed, and the results are shown in Annex 2, Table 9.
4.37   Scenario 1.  In 1996, the share of the 26 TEEP provinces in the elementary education
budget is 16.7 percent. Scenario 1 assumes that this share will stay constant throughout the
project. The analysis shows that the projected subsidy requirement for elementary education
cannot be met by the GoP budget allocated to the 26 TEEP provinces till 2001. There is a
shortfall in the capital account in 2002, but the current account shows a surplus, which results in
an overall surplus in 2002. By the year 2003, both the capital and current accounts show a
surplus. The cumulative shortfall over the period 1997-2003 is 2.88 billion pesos, which is four
percent of the cumulative national budget allocated to elementary education in these provinces
for current and capital expenditures, and 0.78 percent of the total cumulative elementary
education budget. The deficit points to the need to explore alternative scenarios to reallocate
budgets in line with the increased GoP emphasis on elementary education, and the GoP's
intention to target resources to the TEEP provinces, as per the Memorandum of Policy.
4.38   Scenario 2.  In Scenario 2, the share of the TEEP provinces in elementary education is
increased to 20 percent. This is roughly proportional to the number of 6-12 year old children in
4
the TEEP provinces.  The capital account exhibits a deficit till 2001, after which it shows a
surplus. The current account, on the other hand, shows a surplus in all years of the project. By
looking at the overall subsidy requirements, without regard to the distinction between capital
investments and the current account, the results show that the subsidy requirement can be met in
all years except 1998 and 1999. During the project period, 1997 to 2003, there is a cumulative
surplus of 10.5 billion pesos, which is about 7.8 percent of the total elementary education budget
going to these provinces, and 2.8 percent of the total elementary education , budget allocated to
current expenditures. The analysis shows that with reallocations across the capital and current
accounts, and across years, the GoP has the ability to finance and sustain the project.
4.39   Scenario 3. Scenario 3 retains the 20 percent share of the TEEP provinces and assumes
that the costs of the incremental SBP in these provinces will be shared by the LGUs, in line with
the proposed devolution of the SBP. The assumption is that the LGUs will finance 25 percent of
the overall SBP in these provinces, or approximately 50 percent of the incremental SBP. The cost
sharing relaxes the budget constraint for the capital account, and results in lower capital account
deficits till 2001, after which the capital account shows a surplus. The cumulative surplus over
the period 1997-2003 increases to 11.10 billion pesos, indicating a need for rephasing capital
expenditures, which will be addressed during implementation. In this scenario, the LGUs' ability
The exact numbers depend on the alternate estimates (from DECS records or calculations based on the 1994
FIES) of the proportion of children of elementary school going age in these provinces, which can be taken as a
crude index of need.



- 40 -
to finance their share of the SBP is assessed for the 6 pilot provinces. The analysis shows
profiles of the income and expenditures over the project years. The projections includes a
substantial increase in the internal revenue allocations (IRA) to these LGUs of about 29 percent
in 1997, and subsequent increases of at least 12 percent. The current analysis shows yearly
surpluses for all six provinces which indicate that the cost-sharing schemes are sustainable even
at the LGU level. Fiscal sustainability studies will be conducted for each of the 20 provinces that
will come on-stream in the next two batches of TEEP to ensure that the DEDPs are sustainable
for each province. The analysis demonstrates that GoP's ability to finance TEEP is limited under
the current allocation of 16.7 percent going to the TEEP provinces. Increased targeting of
resources to these provinces, in line with the GoP policy, will indeed make the financing of the
project sustainable if the current macroeconomic projections are realized.
4.40  GoP's plan is to extend the proposed reform nationwide, if implementation is successful.
Institutional sustainability should be enhanced by the fact that, in the poorest provinces, the
process of decentralization will receive special support under the project. The more affluent non-
TEEP provinces are expected to spontaneously initiate a similar change. A project study (PY2)
will estimate the cost savings resulting from DECS-CO transfer of authority which will be
reallocated to finance its enhanced oversight function.
J. POVERTY, ENVIRONMENT AND GENDER
4.41  Poverty. The project is geographically targeted and, within the targeted provinces,
phasing will begin with the most disadvantaged districts. The SIIF will direct proportionately
more grants at marginalized schools. The pilot voucher scheme will target the poorest
households. Criteria for all these schemes have been agreed.
4.42 Environmental Aspects. The project will have no adverse impact on the environment.
The SBP will comply with national regulations such as the logging ban and with United Nations
regulations forbidding the use of asbestos. Indigenous people will benefit: they will be
consulted about their perceived educational needs, during DEDP preparation and
implementation, and the project includes provisions for indigenization of the curriculum and
instructional materials. School-mapping will be participatory, and, should there be cases where
land or other property have to be acquired for school construction, the Framework for
Resettlement (para. 3.44) would ensure that the affected groups would be duly compensated. It is
anticipated that there will be a minimal number of such cases. Environmentally-oriented
proposals will be eligible for school grants under SIIF.
4.43  Gender. As indicated in para. 2.9, gender inequity seems to hurt boys more than girls.
The revision of textbooks will apply the existing gender sensitivity norms. Wherever children,
boys or girls, are found to be in especially difficult circumstances (because of work, disabilities,
ethnic background...) or to have particular needs in the TEEP provinces, their needs will be
addressed under the DEDPs, albeit initially on a pilot basis. For instance, modular teaching will
be experimented with for migrant and nomadic children.



- 41 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   First, the project will directly benefit about 2.3 million children, 70 percent of whom
come from poor families. Based on previous studies, the provision of textbooks and furniture
alone could improve learning achievements by 20 percent. The completion rate, which averages
55 percent in the targeted provinces, with a range of 30-80, could reach 64, and even 71 percent
under a low and a high case scenarios. Up to 250,000 new school places will provide access to
better quality elementary education. This will yield intrinsic equity, intergenerational benefits
for these children and their families in terms of welfare, prospects for better health, lower
fertility, higher life expectancy, and earnings potential. For society, by closing the educational
quality gap between rich and poor it will reduce the risk of unrest among young people without a
stake in the development of their country, which could deter foreign or national investors on
whom growth is highly dependent. Second, besides improving equity the project will help GoP
to operationalize several other SRA strategies, such as empowermnent and enhanced economic
opportunities (through community school construction). Intensive capacity-building at the
central and provincial levels will support an orderly decentralization of education, and more
generally, the redefinition of roles between the different levels of DECS. The cost-sharing ratio
will expand education financing and make it more progressive. Third, insofar as GoP is using
the project to test a more effective delivery mechanism for education -- decentralized, flexible,
incremental and result-oriented -- TEEP could, once the model is implemented countrywide,
have a large multiplier effect and notably improve the cost-effectiveness of educational spending.
B. RISKS
5.2   Changes of the magnitude desired by all stakeholders will have to be systemic and
sustained, involving commensurate risks at the macro, sectoral, and project levels.
5.3   At the macro level, the main risk is that, if the fast growth of the past two years were to
falter, the GoP could not honor its financial conunitments arising from TEEP and
implementation would slow down. This risk can only be monitored. Even if the project
succeeded in equalizing access to quality education, its full benefits will only be captured if this
was complemented by policies to create rural employment. There is reason to be optimistic in
the seriousness with which the GoP is observing its IMF targets and has started to restore, at least
partly, the primacy of education in the budgetary allocations of the past two years.
5.4   At the sectoral level, wavering commitment to targeting and insufficient stability in
policy directions could undermine an undertaking -- quality education for the poor -- which is
likely to require a 10-20 years time horizon. Presidential support of social targeting and the
country's ambitions to become a Newly Industrialized Economy, East Asia style, offer hope that
the GoP will stay the course. As a complementary strategy, the advocacy campaign should



- 42 -
create broad grassroots support for TEEP and what it stands for -- democratic governance,
transparency -- which are highly prized values in modem Philippines society.
5.5   At the project level, three types of risks can be identified. The complexity inherent in
TEEP's systemic approach, combined with the shift away from standardized, centralized norms
might exceed DECS' capacity to absorb change. This risk has been reduced to manageable
proportions through the use of piloting and phasing. Another risk is that of a loss of original
focus due to the demands of implementation: political pressure to accelerate or modify the
inclusion of new provinces might force too much corner-cutting; the process of consultation
might become more apparent than real; or, the unavoidable disruptions created by the transition
towards decentralization might trigger a resurgence of traditional, controlling behaviors.
Extensive popular participation and transparency in project preparation and implementation are
expected to counter the likelihood of this occurring. A third risk lies in the limited pool of staff
experienced in project appraisal techniques at the center and in planning, budgeting and
management in the DOs. The safeguards adopted to mitigate this risk include: the emphasis on
upfront capacity-building and systematic learning from experience; the gradual transfer of
responsibilities as individuals and units demonstrate their ability to take on new roles; the TEEP
Guidelines, in which the stakeholders will be trained, to ensure that there is clarity of roles and
responsibilities; the yearly controls built in the workplan and budget approval process and annual
reviews, which will allow the GoP and the donors to identify emerging problems and jointly
devise solutions; and the use of specialists/consultants in the PISU.
5.6  In all three areas, the other donors supporting the project --OECF, AusAID, UNICEF,
CIDA and UNDP, ADB, Ireland-- will have an important support role to play by closely
coordinating, systematically using the indicators as compass, and nurturing a constructive
dialogue in problem areas. Despite careful design and appraisal, the GoP and the donors
recognize that there are residual risks linked to TEEP's innovativeness in an environment
traditionally more interested in developing new plans than in implementing them. These risks
are considered worth taking, given the problems in the present system.



- 43 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During Negotiations, assances were obtained from GoP that:
(a)   it shall (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the principles set forth in the
Memorandum of Policy and with the TEEP Guidelines, in particular for the
participatory preparation, implementation and monitoring of DEDPs and the
informed participation of, and consultation with, indigenous people to ensure that
the design and implementation of DEDPs address their needs and cultural
preferences; (ii) exchange views with the Bank prior to any modification to its
Memorandum of Policy or to any of the Memoranda of Agreement with DBM,
DoF, and DPWH, that would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the Project; and (iii) not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the TEEP
Guidelines without the prior approval of the Bank (paras. 3.6 and 3.39);
(b)   it shall administer the national sample-based assessment tests: (i) in all active
Project Provinces in 1998, 2000 and 2002; and (ii) in accordance with methods
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.15);
(c)   it shall ensure that: (i) each DEDP is prepared and appraised in consultation with
the Bank; and (ii) DECS and each DECS-DO in the project provinces enter into a
Memorandum of Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the concerned parties
setting forth the obligations of each party to implement such DEDP in accordance
with the TEEP Guidelines (para. 3.21);
(d)   it shall, by March 31, 1997, prepare in consultation with the Bank, a plan for the
distribution of textbooks to provide two textbooks per pupil (or a set of four books
per two pupils) in all public elementary schools including in the most remote
areas, and thereafter implement it (para. 3.32);
(e)   it shall, by September 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment, a proposed strategy to address demand-side issues in the provision of
elementary education and thereafter implement it (para. 3.39);
(f)   it shall apply the Framework for Resettlement for purposes of providing
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation measures to persons affected by
land acquisition for school construction (para. 3.44);
(g)   based on agreed Terms of Reference, it shall furnish to the Bank: (i) a quarterly
progress Report by February 28 (Budget Review), May 31, August 31, and
November 30 of each year; (ii) a full annual Report by August 31 of each year;
(iii) a mid-term Report on or about August 31, 2000 (para. 4.28).



- 44 -
6.2   As Conditions of Effectiye=s:
(a)   the Memoranda of Agreement between DECS and DoF, DBM, and DPWH,
respectively, shall have been executed and become effective (para. 3.6);
(b)   all conditions precedent to the Effectiveness of the OECF Loan Agreement shall
have been fulfilled (para. 3.9);
6.3   As Conditions of Disbursement on the DEDPs, except for Category 3 (Textbooks and
Instructional Materials):
(a)   the TEEP Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been adopted and put
into effect by DECS (para. 3.6);
(b)   GoP shall have appointed the PISU Facilities specialist, Procurement specialist,
and one TEEP Advisor in each of the six pilot provinces all with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.12); and
(c)   GoP shall, in respect of the DEDPs for each of the six pilot provinces, cause the
respective DECS- DO to enter into a Memorandum of Agreement satisfactory to
the Bank with the respective provincial and municipal LGUs, parent
representatives, and other concerned parties which shall set forth the obligations
of each party to implement such DEDP in accordance with the TEEP Guidelines
(para 3.21).
6.4   Subject to the conditions in paras. 6.1 to 6.3 above, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan of US$113.4 million to the Republic of the Philippines with
20 years maturity and 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency Loan.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: Contextual Country Data
Units         70-75    80-85    88-93   1994   East Asia  Source
'-'Lo8.L oSLUNiZ.. .   .,,,.,,,,,,, .....     .
GNP per capita             US$                    370      520      850   960          820   SID'
Population growth          % of pop.               2.7      2.5     2.2                 1.4   SID
Population (1993 estimate)   thousands          43,010   54,668   64,800          1,713,883    SID
School age population      thousands_                                     9,736              DECS
Growth rate school age pop.
Illiteracy rate2           % pop. 15+ years         17      12       10                 22    SID
- female illiteracy        % pop 15+ years          --      13       11                  36
Percentage of minorities                                 _ _                                                    U
Mortality rate at birth    per 1000 live births    71       60     42.2                35.5   SID
Life expectancy at birth   years                   58       62       67                  68    SID
Daily calories per capita                        1806    2137   2242t _                      c. rokx
SID = Social Indicators of Development
2   Over age 15
3   Average of 1988 through 1992 only



PHLIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 2: Education System Characteristics
Units         88        89       90       91        92       93       94          95                 Source
-         *........  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ..  .
r  -  -  ' '- ~~~~~~~~~~~. .   .   .   . . . .
Total enrollment'                 thousands           15,290   15,763   16,170   16,577   16,978   17,284   17,817       18,599               DECS
- grades 1-6                      thousands            9,973   10,285   10,427   10,596   10,879   10,732   10,904*      11,469               DECS
- grades 7-10                     thousands           3,737    3,962    4,034    4,174    4,423    4,590    4,763         4,873               DECS
- grades 11 or more                thousands           1,580    1,516    1,710    1,808    1,876    1,963    2,151        2,257               DECS
-tech/voc enrollment
Percent that is public enrollment                        78       78        78       78        77       77       78                           DECS
- grades 1-6                       percent               94       93        93       93       91        92       93                           DECS
- grades 7-10                      percent               63       64        64       65       65        67       68                           DECS
- grades 11 or more                percent               15        15       15       17        18       21       23                           DECS
Percent female public enrollment
- grades 1-6                                                                                                   49.6                       Country Rpt. on
________  ________  ________  ________                             ~~W om en
- grades 7-10                                                                                                  51.5    _
- grades 11 or more                                                                                            56.3                                          as
Average years to complete
- grades 1-6 (Public/Private)                                                                                            7.5/7.0            Cost/Fin. Rpt.
- grades 7-10 (Public/Private)                                                                                           5.1/4.8
- grades 11 or more
Completion rate                                         61.9     65.0     66.0                                            67/76
Drop out rates (by grade)                             1.76(?)   1.74(?)   1.69(?)
Repetition rates (Grades 1-6)                           1.96     2.16     2.05                                              3.4
Number of teachers'
-elementary                       thousands             307       308      310      314       295      296      303                           DECS
-secondary                        thousands             109       116      119      120        82       84       92                           DECS
Ed staff % of govt. labor force    percent               36        36       39       40        43       43       44                        Civil Serv. Rpt.
Education staff % of labor force
Studentlteacher ratios (primary)   students/ teacher     29        31       36                          36                23(?)                SID )
Student/teacher ratios (secondary)  students/ teacher    31        32       50                    1                       16(?)                SID
Teacher/Non-teacher ratio                                                  7.2
* Enrollment may exceed school age population because of the high proportion of average children.
In this time series 1989 refers to school year 88-89, and so on
2   Not including teachers in laboratory schools of SUCs.
1992 only, from "The Philippines: Cost and Financing Issues in Education", Jan. 1996. Based on data provided by DECS and estimates
from the Bank of tertiary levels. In each Region, the proportion of non-teaching staff is usually the lowest (about 10%) at the elementary level.



- 47 -                                   Annex2
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. COHERENCE WITH ESW/SECTOR PRIORITIES
1.    Educational attainment in the Philippines compares favorably with most other countries of
similar per capita income. But there are substantial variations in quality and access to such services, and
deficiencies in education infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Improving the access to quality
primary education is a central part of the GoP's and the Bank's poverty alleviation strategy, and the
Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) is intended to be an important instrument to further this
objective.
Disparities in Educational Outcomes
2.     According to official service statistics, the net _nrollment ratio, defined as the percentage of the
population of 7-12 year children enrolled in school, in the Philippines is high, at 87.14%1 in the school
year 1994-95. The national average however obscures the wide variations in the different provinces in
the Philippines. The net enrollment ratio2 ranges from 58% in Marawi City to 65% in Basilan and
almost 100% in Ilocos Norte. Independent confirmation of the official enrollment estimates based on
household survey data is not available. The high enrollment rates present an incomplete picture. About
68% of children who enrolled did not complete primary school, and of those who dropped out, 60% did
so in the first two years. The average years of schooling among the dropouts in 1994/95 was 2.8 years.
The low primary school completion rates are largely the result of high drop out rates rather than high
repetition rates.  There are also disparities in primary school completion rates: children from
economically depressed regions drop out disproportionately. The learning achievements of children, as
measured by the achievement test scores of those who do stay in school, can be taken as an index of the
value added by education and a measure of the quality of education. The provincial variation in
enrollment rates and completion rates is also mirrored in achievement test scores, with provincial test
scores ranging from 54 in Masbate to 102 in the National Capital.
3.    Increasing the enrollment and completion rates among the poor in primary school and improving
their achievement test scores are important objectives for this project. The project will focus on
improving the disparity in the access to quality education.
Educational Outcomes and Poverty
4.     Provincial disparities. First, we examine the link at the provincial level between poverty and
educational outcomes (enrollment rates and achievement test scores) using regression analysis. The
living standard of the province is proxied by using the average per capita expenditure of the province as
the measure of welfare. The per capita expenditure of the province is computed from the 1994 Family
Income and Expenditure Survey (1994 FIES). Data on net enrollments and the achievement test scores
The gross enrollment ratio is even higher at 110, and is the third highest in Asia, after Brunei and Korea,
countries with much higher per capita income. Enrollment statistics are provided by the Department of
Education, Culture and Sports (DECS).
2   The net enrollment rate is referred to as the participation rate in the statistics reported by the DECS.



- 48 -                                        Annex 2
were provided by the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS). The regression analysis
shows that provinces with higher per capita expenditures have higher enrollment rates and achievement
test scores. Figures 1 and 2 plot the estimated relationship between the net enrollment ratio and
achievement test score respectively, and the per capita consumption expenditure of the province. The
project provinces are highlighted on the graphs. The primary school completion rates for all the
provinces were unavailable for 1994. However, a similar relationship has been estimated between
primary school completion rates and family income in 19913.
Fig.1: Net Enrollment Pates  and  Provincial Per Capita Expenditure
Philippines 1994
100                   o     O
0 0
@~~~~~~~~ .0
cu       9
C-
,0
70
c..
C-,
r-       60
50~~~~~~
rm       t          I          t         t          t         t          I
5000      10000    15000    20000    25000    30000    35000
Per capita expenditure
Fig. 2: Achievement Test Scores ana Provincial Per Capita
Expenditure, PhiliQpines 1994
a 1 O -
100 -
04
C-
0
CD
ur    90 -
50     -  l   l      l0lol                  l       l
070
5000   lOOOO  15000  20000  25000  30000  35000
Per capita expenditure
See Education Financing and Social Equity in the Philippines: A Reform Agenda, June 1996, The World
Bank.



- 49 -                                   Annex2
5.     Differences across poor and non-poor households. How are primary school enrollments
distributed across income groups? In the Philippines, the analysis is hampered by the lack of a nationally
representative multipurpose household survey that collects data on both enrollments and per capita
expenditure. There is however some information that can shed light on this question. In 1992, a
questionnaire was administered to the bottom three income deciles of households, as identified in the
1991 Family Income Expenditure Survey (FIES) to understand to what extent the poor were reached by
public programs.4 Seven percent of all children 7-12 years of age in these households were not attending
school, with the ratio being 7.6% for males and 6.1% for females. This ratio increases dramatically for
13-16 year old children, to 29.2% for males and 19.5% for females.
6.     The FIES does however allow us to establish the link between the highest educational
attainments of all individuals 10 years and older and household expenditure. The 1994 PIES data were
used for this analysis. The regional poverty lines estimated for the Philippines poverty study were
updated to 1994 prices using the regional consumer price indices5 and used to identify poor households.
Per capita consumption expenditure is the chosen measure of welfare in this analysis. In 1994, 46% of
the population in the Philippines was identified as being poor. Sixty percent of the population 10 years
and older living in poor households has six or less years of education, and thirty percent have between 7
and 10 years of schooling, and only 5% have any college education. In sharp contrast, one third of the
individuals in non-poor households have 6 or less years of education, 37% have 7-10 years of schooling,
and about 28% have some college education.
7.     The link between poverty and education can also be illustrated by examining the incidence of
poverty by the educational attainment of the household head (see Figure 3). The incidence, depth and
severity of poverty (as measured by the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke class of poverty measures) are much
higher for households headed by less educated heads than college educated household heads. But in
terms of contribution to national poverty, 35% of the total poor live in households headed by individuals
who have some schooling but have not completed primary school, and another 31% live in households
headed by individuals who have completed primary school. This is an important fact. Education has
important inter-generational benefits:parents with more education face a lower risk of poverty, are likely
to value education more and, consequently, are more likely to invest in their children's education.
Hence, there are important inter-generational benefits to investing in children's education today. The
next section ) analyses the determinants of these differential enrollments and primary school completion
rates. This is a first step towards designing policy options to improve educational outcomes (enrollments
and primary school completion). Then we examine the determinants of achievement test scores and the
design of interventions to improve these scores.
4   See Alejandro N. Herrin and Rachel H. Racelis, Monitoring the Coverage of Public Programs on Low-Income
Families: Philippines. 1992 (NEDA, 1994).
See Philippines: A Strategy to Fight Poverty, World Bank, 1996 for the details on the construction of the
poverty lines. The Foster-Greer-Thorbecke class of decomposable poverty measures are used in this analysis
(see Ravallion, 1995).



- 50 -                                      Annex 2
Fig. 3: Incidence of Poverty by Educational Attainment of the Household Head, FIES 1994
900
>   70 01
Ox 60.    x
0
o    40o   o_      _
'o 30                       s
- S   20.
S     100
0               0)
c    -   E       E               0      
Educational Attainment of Household Head
Determinants of Enrollments and Primary School Completion
8.     At each level of schooling, a household will choose to invest in education if the anticipated
future benefits (discounted) exceed the estimated costs, subject to the constraints faced by the household.
The private benefits to additional education include the higher earnings and economic mobility as a
result of increased productivity. The costs of schooling include a vector of variables that reflect prices
associated with school attendance, and includes the monetary cost of going to school (monthly fees,
registration fees, uniforms etc.), the distance to the nearest school, and the availability of public and
private schools of a given level in the community. In addition, the opportunity cost of the child's time
both in the labor market and household activities is an important component of the indirect cost of
schooling. School quality increases the benefits of schooling in this framework, and ceteris paribus
increases the demand for schooling.
9.     The characteristics of the child and the socio-economic background of the family are also
important determinants of the demand for schooling. What is the evidence for the Philippines of the
determinants of the demand for schooling? Households in the bottom three income deciles in the Family
Income and Expenditure Survey in 1991, were administered a special questionnaire in 1992. Out of
school children belonging to these households were asked why they dropped out (Herrin and Racelis,
1994). Lack of interest is the main reason reported by 45 percent of the 7-12 year old children for
dropping out of school. Admittedly, the lack of interest variable is hard to interpret. But for the 7-12
year olds, it may be the result of supply related factors (such as lack of learning materials, inadequate
curricula etc.). The low quality and relevance of education, combined with low growth of modern sector
employment may lead to a perception of low private returns to education among parents. Almost a fifth
of the children drop out of school because of inaccessibility and the high cost of education, an indication
that these factors are important deterrents to poor children staying in school. We look at additional
evidence to better understand which factors are important in explaining why children drop out of school.
10.    Private Costs of Education. First, we look at the evidence on the private costs of schooling in
public elementary schools, and then examine if these costs are significant deterrents to attending and
completing primary school. In principle, no tuition is charged in public elementary schools, yet there are
additional costs associated with going to school. Preliminary evidence from a study conducted by the



- 51 -                                       Annex 2
Fund for Assistance to Private Education (FAPE)6 on the costs of private and public schools at the
different levels of education shows that despite low fees, there are significant private costs (on
educational supplies and uniforms, transportation and boarding) to attending public elementary schools.
11.    Evidence from  1994 FIES. The FIES collects data on education expenditures, including its
breakdown into the categories of fees, allowances for family members staying away from home, books,
school supplies, and other educational supplies, for all households. This expenditure cannot however be
related to the number of children currently in school or their level of enrollment. According to
calculations from the FIES, Filipino households spent 31,907 million pesos on education in 1994.
12.    Next, we examine the affordability of primary education for the population. The education
financing report estimated that the unit cost of elementary education is 4085 pesos per student in 1994.
The share of the private sector in this unit cost is 30.4%. These unit costs are computed on the basis of
both private and public sector enrollments. However, since the share of the public sector in elementary
school enrollments was about 93% in 1994, the unit costs of public primary schooling are likely to be in
this range. Using a constant private cost of elementary schooling (computed as 30.4% of the unit cost of
elementary school), we compute the affordability ratio as the ratio of the private cost of elementary
education to per capita expenditure. Figure 4 shows the results. In the bottom quintile, this ratio is
almost 35%, and this falls to about 5% for the richest quintile. The trends are similar to those found in
Indonesia for primary schooling: in 1989, the cost to income ratio for the poorest decile was 38%, and it
rose to 17% for the richest decile. The costs of schooling are clearly a greater burden for the poor than
for the non-poor.
Figure 4: Affordability of Primary Schooling, Philippines 1994
(Private costfPer capita expenditure ratlo In percent)
L; 45- 
40,
~. 35-
4E   30          _
lng25 /
0.i  20.
15 U/
L-    5 /       U          
a.~~.5*
a       a        a       a        a
13.    Do Costs Deter Enrollments and Completion? There are no recent studies in the Philippines
on the determinants of the demand for education. The Herrin and Racelis (1994) study shows that about
8% of the 7-12 year old children from poor households drop out because the costs are too high. In
addition, there are useful lessons on the elasticity of demand with respect to price, from other countries,
6   See Borromeo, Roberto T., April 1995, Cost Effectiveness of Education in the Philippines: Comparative
Analysis of Public and Private School Programs, Fund for Assistance to Private Education.



- 52 -                                     Annx 2
such as Indonesia. King (1995)7 investigates the determinants of school enrollments and transition rates
between education levels for Indonesia in 1989. Indonesia achieved dramatic increases in enrollment
rates: the net enrollment rates rose from 68% in 1960 to 89% in 1989. There is concern that some of this
expansion was achieved at the cost of quality. In addition, students drop out significantly beyond the 7-
12 age group. These are much the same concerns as in the Philippines. The paper finds that poverty
deters school attendance (entry into primary school), and that the price of schooling matters, that is,
lower fees, the greater availability of public primary schools in the district, and a shorter distance to a
primary school raise the probability of attending primary school. The prospect of a higher return to
primary education does not appear to be a significant factor in the decision to enter school. The decision
to continue schooling to the lower secondary level is also affected by the costs of schooling. In fact, the
elasticity of demand with respect to school fees and distance to school are higher for the poor than the
non-poor. In addition, the results show that the opportunity cost of school attendance for 10-13 olds is an
important deterrent to enrollments.
14.    Distance to School. The costs of going to school include the time costs of travelling to the
school and the transportation costs in reaching school. For the Philippines, at the provincial level,
regression analysis using data for 97 provincial units, shows that there is no significant link between the
net enrollment rates in a province and the regional distribution of schools, as proxied by the percentage
of barangays without schools within the province8. The Household School Matching Survey II (HSMS
II) data collected in 1990 under the Second Elementary Education project has information on the
distance between the home and school for pupils enrolled in school. These results are admittedly based
on a select sample of students who are enrolled in school, and hence does not tell us directly about
children who are not enrolled in school.9 In fact, it may well be the case that one of the reasons that the
children dropped out of school is precisely because it was too far. The estimates, therefore, can be
considered as a conservative estimate of the true distance facing all children A large proportion of these
children (73% in Grade 1) travel less than I km to reach school. Children in the higher grades (Grades 4
and 6) do have to travel slightly longer distances to reach school than children in grade 1, with 42% of
Grade 6 children travelling more than 2 km.
15.    Opportunity Costs. We also use the previous study to understand the alternate demands on the
children's time. A significant fraction (25-30%) of children in Grades 4 and 6 work in income
generating activities often or always, but the corresponding number is much lower for Grade I children.
Most children also help in doing household chores. In poorer households, the opportunity costs may well
be high enough to keep children out of school. Evidence from Indonesia show that it is indeed the case
(see King, (1995), and Table 5).
16.    School Quality. There is little direct evidence (using household survey data and school data) in
the Philippines on the impact of improved school quality on school enrollments. There is, however,
convincing evidence of its impact on learning outcomes which is explored in the next section. The
Education financing report (World Bank 1996) uses provincial data to show that some school staffing
King, Elizabeth M, 1995, Does the Price of Schooling Matter? Fees, Opportunity Costs, and Enrollment in
Indonesia, The World Bank, processed.
8   The Education Financing and Social Equity in the Philippines: A Reform Agenda, June 1996, The World
Bank. This report is based on sector work conducted in 1994-95 as part of the identification of the Third
Elementary Education Project.
See Cortes, Josephina R. and Eliseo A. de Guzman, 1995, The Determinants of School Achievement, HSMS Sl
Report No. 4, Bureau of Elementary Education, Department of Education, Culture and Sports.



- 53 -                                    Annex2
characteristics (especially related to the distribution of principals (principals/school, principal/teacher)
have an impact on elementary school completion rates. The same report also shows that there are
provincial imbalances in school staffing characteristics that are correlated with provincial income. This
evidence, albeit crude, does suggest that more effective targeting of the available educational resources
to poor areas is needed to reduce the disparities in schooling outcomes. In addition, a study by de
Guzman and Cortes (1995)10 uses the HSMS II data on absenteeism of students and shows that having
school administrators with 10 years experience or less, teachers who use innovative teaching methods,
and schools which offer remedial classes reduces the extent of absenteeism by students in Grade 1. In
addition, the availability of textbooks, and the presence of a guidance counselor lowers the likelihood of
absenteeism among Grade 4 students. Evidence from Vietnam  , where enrollment rates are also very
high, and 20% of children do not complete primary school, shows that school quality as proxied by the
lack of supplies, poor quality building and poor quality teachers significantly lowers the probability of
completion of primary school, and a higher percentage of trained teachers significantly increases the
probability of primary school completion. Evidence from Indonesia (see Mason, 1994)12 also shows that
the lower the quality of the school, as proxied by a high ratio of broken down classrooms to maintained
classrooms, the lower the probability of completion of primary school.
17.    Pre-school Programs. There is strong evidence for the Philippines (Mingat and Tan, 1995)13
that participation in pre-school programs reduces the probability that the child will drop out of
elemeniary school, and children from the poorest families and the children of farmers are most likely to
drop out. Simulations from the model show that pre-school education reduces the disparity in drop out
behavior across wealth groups.
18.    Rates of return to primary schooling. Estimates from Psacharapolous (1994)14 show that the
private rates of return to schooling in 1988 are highest for primary schooling at 18.3%, and the estimated
social rates of return to schooling are 13.3%.
19.    Summary and Conclusions. The evidence reviewed shows that improving the quality of
education could improve primary school completion rates (and achievement test scores, as we show in
the next section). In addition, there is also some evidence that the high costs of schooling and
inaccessibility of the school are real constraints for poor children in particular, and that the children in
the older grades have to travel longer distances to attend school. The project will focus on improving the
access to quality education for the poor. There is, however, a realization that providing schools does not
guarantee enrollment. There are "hard to reach" pockets of the population even with an expanded and
improved primary school system. The improved quality of schools will increase the benefits to attending
school, and improved access will reduce some of the costs of attending school. A study is proposed as
De Guzman, Eliseo A. and Josephina Cortes, 1995, Correlates and Determinants of Absenteeism and Dropping
Out Among Public Elementary School Pupils, HSMS II Report No. 5, Bureau of Elementary Education,
Department of Education, Culture and Sports.
Glewwe, Paul and Hanan Jacoby, 1996, School Enrollment and Completion: An Investigation of Recent
Trends, The World Bank, processed.
Mason, Andrew David, 1994, Schooling Decisions, Basic Education, and the Poor in Rural Java.
13  Mingat, Alain and Tan, Jee-peng, 1995, Do Preschool Programs Improve Elementary School Outcomes?
Evidence from the Philippines, The World Bank, processed.
14 Psacharopoulos, George, 1994, Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update, World Development,
Vol. 22, No. 9, pp. 1325-1343.



- 54-                                    Annex 2
part of the TEEP to pilot demand side financing interventions, which are mechanisms designed to
increase school participation by reducing the direct and indirect costs of schooling, to make education
affordable for the poor. The next section focuses on some of the alternatives that were considered in the
design of the project.
B. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
Choice of Target Group
20.    Geographic Targeting. The project will use geographic targeting as the first stage screening
device to reach the poor. The project will focus on 26 provinces. These include the 20 provinces
selected by the Government under its Social Reform Agenda for extensive targeted support. In addition,
it includes six other intensely poor provinces, identified as those with the largest contribution to national
poverty, and the highest depth of poverty. Figures 1 and 2 referred to in Section A, highlight the project
provinces. As the graphs show, the majority of the TEEP provinces are in the south-west quadrant of the
diagram indicating that they have both low incomes and low educational indicators. The TEEP
provinces' have a population of 11.55 million people, of which 7.3 million are poor. Figure 5 shows
that the TEEP provinces have a higher incidence, depth and severity of poverty than non-TEEP provinces
and contribute about 23% of the population of the national poor. The share of these provinces in the
population of the country is about 17%. There are about 2.1 million children of primary school age (6-12
years of age) in these provinces, as estimated from the 1994 FIES, of which 72% live in poor households.
The TEEP provinces have about 19% of the population of children in the age group 6-12 years.16
Rgure 5:Comparison of TEEPand non-TEEP Provinces
2089
60
e 0                                        TEEh-TEE
0 40
U6-.
5  The 1994 FIES allows us to identify the provinces.  The population and poverty numbers refer to the 23
provinces that we could also identify in the FIES. No data were available for Guimaras or Biliran. Baguio
City, Cotabato City and Zamboanga City are excluded from the TEEP provinces.
16  Tabulations from DECS of the school age population show that 17.2% of the 7-12 year old school age
population is in the 26 provinces in the 1994-95 school year. These estimates also show that there are 1.65
million children 7-12 years old in these provinces.



-55 -                                      Ann  2
21.    Targeting of Schools. Schools which do not offer the complete set of grades 1 to 6, will be
targeted to ensure that they offer all Grades 1-6. The rationale for this strategy is based on the relatively
high drop out rates found in Grade 4. Anecdotal evidence and field visits suggest that a main cause of
this drop out rate is the need to travel greater distances to a central school which offers the higher grades
(Grades 5 and 6). This strategy is designed to improve the access to a complete school for the
households in these provinces. In addition, a School Improvement and Innovation Fund (SIIF) will give
schools the opportunity to diagnose its problems, plan and implement corrective actions and evaluate the
impact. Schools are classified into three risk groups (low, medium and high) based on five criteria (see
Chapter 9 in the Technical Volume). The SIIF will target a higher proportion of its resources to schools
that are classified high (45% of resources) or medium risk (45% of resources).
22.    Household/community based targeting. The demand-side financing pilot will test different
strategies such as scholarships to cover the direct and indirect costs of schooling, vouchers to cover
tuition that are given to poor students for use in the school of their choice (including private schools),
and vouchers given to communities to build schools in communities where none exist. The pilot will
select poor rural communities for testing the interventions. In addition, within each community income-
based selection criteria may be used for targeting households.
Choice of Technology
23.    Choice of School Inputs to Improve Achievement Test Scores. The project will provide
textbooks, workbooks and instructional materials, as they have a demonstrated impact on learning
achievements in the Philippines. One set of textbooks will be provided for every two students.
Classroom furniture (more generally a proxy for adequate school facilities) has a strong demonstrated
impact on learning achievements in the Philippines.17 The project will finance repairs and rehabilitation
of school buildings, construction of toilets, and purchase of classroom furniture. There is no intervention
to improve the student teacher ratio as this has been shown to have no significant impact on achievement
test scores. International evidence corroborates this: Past studies have shown that learning improves
when the class size drops from 20 to 5, but that learning achievements are not significantly increased
when the class size falls from 40 to 20.
24.    Determinants of Learning Achievement in the Philippines. Tan, Lane and Coustere (1996)18
analyze the 1990/91 Household and Matching School II dataset, to assess the Lost-effectiveness of
alternative instruments to improve student learning. These results are used to inform the design of this
project. As a first step, the authors apply a production function approach to examine the effects of
alternative interventions on learning achievements in Grade 1. The available data permit evaluation of
the effect of workbooks, classroom furniture, class size, teacher qualifications and pre-school education.
The regression model estimated controls for variation in student's initial level of learning, student
characteristics, family background characteristics, as well as differences in classroom and school
management practices. The availability of workbooks and the adequacy of classroom furniture as
17  This finding is also consistent with evidence for other developing countries. See Eric A. Hanushek, 1995,
Interpreting Recent Research on Schooling in Developing Countries, World Bank Research Observer, Vol. 10,
Number 2.
18 Tan, Jee-peng, Julia Lane and Paul Coustere, 1996, Putting Inputs to Work in Elementary Schools: What Can
be Done in the Philippines?, forthcoming Economic Development and Cultural Change.



- 56 -                                     Aimex 2
reported by the teacher consistently increases achievements in both Mathematics and Filipino. The
difference in the test scores of pupils with and without workbooks ranges between 0.17 and 0.22 of a
standard deviation in the two subjects.  Students in classrooms without adequate furniture have
significantly lower test scores in the two subjects (the scores are lower by between 0.28 and 0.34 of a
standard deviation). The results also show that the teacher's academic credentials, teachers experience
and class size have little effect on student's achievement scores, and hence can be ruled out as priorities
for policy intervention. The teacher's subject knowledge increases a student's achievement score in
Filipino by about 0.12 of a standard deviation. The analysis also explores the effects of management
practices on student achievement. The results are generally inconclusive, but this may reflect the
difficulty of quantitatively capturing these influences, rather that its absence in reality. There may be
additional influences, such as strong leadership in the school, emphasis on student learning, the role of
incentives (such as pay structures, promotion criterion etc.), the ties between the school and the local
community, financial and managerial autonomy of the school, accountability etc. The data do not permit
investigation of these issues. Using another dataset for the Philippines, Jimenez and Paqueo (1996)19
find that student achievement scores are higher in schools which depend on local financing. One
possible explanation of this effect is that such schools face greater incentives to respond to the needs of
the community.
25.    Comparing the Cost-Effectiveness of School Inputs on Learning Achievements. After
establishing the relationship between the school inputs and student achievement, Tan, Lane and Coustere
(1996) compare the cost effectiveness of the three effective school inputs (workbooks, classroom
furniture, and preschool programs), identified as significantly improving learning achievements. They
compute a cost-effectiveness ratio for each input, computed as the achievement impact divided by the
corresponding cost of the input (see Table 1). Data limitations precluded firm conclusions regarding the
effect on achievement of textbooks, in-service teacher training, and the Program for Comprehensive
Elementary Education Development (PRORED) supplied reference materials. Hence, it was not possible
to estimate the cost-effectiveness of these inputs. Based on this analysis, spending money on workbooks
and classroom furniture gives the best payoffs in elementary education in the Philippines, and hence
should be considered the investment priorities in elementary education. The paper also compares the
results of their analysis to earlier estimates by Heyneman et al20 on the impact of textbooks on
achievement among Filipino students. The Heyneman et al. study showed that the impact of textbooks
improved first graders achievement test scores by .30 of a standard deviation in Mathematics and 0.32 of
a standard deviation in Filipino. The results also demonstrated that a student:textbook ratio of 2:1 was as
effective as a 1: I ratio. Assuming that these ratios have been stable over time, and the costs of textbooks
are about th- same as workbooks (between 20-49 pesos each), the implied cost-effectiveness ratio would
be 12.0 to 30.0 for Mathematics, and 13.0 to 32.0 for Filipino. These results are consistent with
international experience (Hanushek, 1995).
9  Jimenez, Emmanuel and Vicente Paqueo, 1996, Do Local Contributions Affect the Efficiency of Public
Primary Schools?, forthcoming in Economics of Education Review.
20  Heyneman, Stephen P., Dean T. Jamison, and Xenia Montenegro, 1984, Textbooks in the Philippines:
Evaluation of the Pedagogical Impact of a Nationwide Investment, Educational Evaluation and Policy
Analysis 6(2): 139-150.



- 57-                                         Annex2
Table 1: Evaluation of Cost-Effectiveness of Investment Options in the Philippines
Input                   Annual cost per pupil  Impact on Achievement in   Cost-
a/                      Mathematics b/ (in units of  effectiveness
(Pesos)             standard deviation)      ratio c/
Workbooks                         49                      0.194                     253
Classroom furniture               53                      0.323                     164
Preschool programs               250                      0.076                   3,289
Source: Tan, Lane and Coust6re (1996)
a/ The costs of workbooks refer to the more expensive of two options; the cost of classroom furniture was amortized assuming a lifetime
of 10 years; and the costs of preschool programs reflect the cheapest of four options.
bl Similar results hold for scores in Filipino.
c/ Pesos per standard deviation gain in Mathematics scores.
26.    Pre-school programs are much less cost-effective, reflecting the higher unit costs of the program
and the smaller effect on achievement. However, it should be recognized that investments in textbooks,
workbooks and classroom furniture reach diminishing returns once students have these inputs. So, there
may still be a role for pre-school programs. But in areas where schools lack the basic ingredients (books,
tables and chairs) for effective teaching and learning, these are priority investments.
Choice of Mono-grade versus Multi-grade
27.    The project is promoting multi-grade teaching in small rural schools instead of the norm of
monograde teaching. The cost savings that result from this choice can be calculated by comparing the
savings in the number of teachers and classrooms that would result from this policy. The baseline
assumption is that the student teacher ratio and the student to classroom ratio would remain unchanged
from their current levels in each of the provinces. Then, the with project scenario assumes that the
student teacher ratio and the student/classroom ratio would be improved by 50% from their initial values.
The assumption is that the optimal target is 40 for both ratios. The change in the student/teacher ratio
and the student/classroom ratio is largely due to the adoption of multi-grade teaching, and we estimate
that eighty percent of these savings can be attributed to this intervention. Using these assumptions, the
estimated savings due to multi-grade teaching are that 4618 fewer teachers and 607 less classrooms will
be required.
Choice of Public Versus Private Provision
28.    All project inputs provided in the TEEP will be delivered through the public schools.
Elementary education in the Philippines is largely in the public domain. The public share of enrollments
in elementary education was 95.7% in 1980-81 and has decreased only slightly to about 92.4% in 1994-
95. Hence, it would not be unreasonable to infer that public education is largely the only option
available to the poor. The ratio of private sector enrollment to that of the public sector in elementary
education in the six provinces where the project is being introduced in the first phase ranges from less
than 1% to a maximum of 7% in Benget. Given the small share of the private sector in these regions, the
crowding out of the private sector as a consequence of the increased provision of public elementary
schooling is most likely to be minimal.



- 58 -                                   Annex 2
Choice of Public Versus Private Financing
29.    All project inputs provided through the TEEP will be paid for by the public budget. Government
policy on elementary education essentially states that the state will establish and maintain a system of
free public elementary education. Hence, the public sector will continue to subsidize primary education
heavily in the Philippines. Substantial investments in improving the quality of primary education in the
selected provinces will be undertaken: such as the provision of textbooks and workbooks, teacher
training, instructional materials, classroom kits, the provision of furniture, the rehabilitation and repair of
classrooms. In addition, access to complete schools will be improved through the construction of
schools and/or classrooms, in line with the needs identified with the project.
30.   Are there any reasons why the government should subsidize primary education? The rationale
for public investment in this project is on efficiency grounds: the externalities associated with education
and imperfect information on the part of individuals, and on equity grounds (poverty reduction). (This
section draws heavily on Jimenez, King and Tan, 1996)21. There are externalities associated with basic
education because the benefits of education accrue not just to the student, but also to society. A more
educated workforce expands the economy's production possibility frontier by encouraging innovation
and the discovery of new technologies. The beneficial effects of education in reducing fertility and
population growth have been widely documented. The benefits of basic literacy in strengthening
national cohesiveness and crime reduction are also considered externalities (see Haveman and Wolfe,
1984 for a discussion of the benefits of education).  These externalities are hard to quantify, but it
implies that without the subsidized provision of primary schooling, provision will be less than socially
optimum. Another argument for public sector involvement in basic education is that parents and students
have imperfect information about the benefits of education, and hence are likely to underinvest in
education. Besides the efficiency grounds for public investment in basic education, poverty reduction
also justifies government intervention in this case. Elementary education completion is more equitably
distributed across the population than secondary education, and tertiary education, which is skewed to
the richer groups. Hence, improving the access of the poor to quality education is an important part of
the poverty alleviation strategy in the Philippines. (see Poverty Report, World Bank, 1996) The
government currently subsidizes primary education to a large extent, but the private contributions are
increasing. Estimates of the cost-sharing in public education in the Philippines and its evolution over
time are shown in Table 2. The unit recurrent costs (as shown in Table 2) include the operating costs of
schools, ii) direct private costs other than school fees (transportation, books and pedagogical supplies,
etc.) and iii) the cost of DECS' sector management and operational support (curriculum development,
student examinations, school inspection etc.) serving both public and private schools. The direct private
costs, as defined here, exclude the cost of school uniforms, meals and boarding, as well as the
opportunity cost of the student's foregone earnings. Government contributions to unit cost financing
have increased by 40% in elementary education from 1986 to 1994, but parental contributions have
increased five-fold. Most of the increase in the direct costs have been in the form of direct costs other
than school based fees.
21  Jimenez, Emmanuel, Elizabeth M. King and Jee-Peng Tan, 1996, Whither Economic Analysis of Economic
Investments, The World Bank, processed.



- 59-                                           Ann-2
Table 2: Cost Sharing in Public Education 1986-94 at the Elementary School Level
(Government and Private Shares in Unit Cost)
Financing Sources               1986                   1994           1994 Index (1986=100)
Government                        87.9                   69.1                     139
Households                        10.6                   30.4                     503
Fees                            (-)                  (~4.9)
Other Private costs           (1i                     (25.5)
Total                             100                                             177
(id. in P, 1994 prices)          2305                   4085
Source: Education Financing and Social Equity in the Philippines: A Reform Agenda, World Bank 1996, p.47.
The World Bank's 1988 Education Sector Study did not record any school fees in public elementary schools in 1986.
C. FISCAL IMPACT/COST RECOVERY
Unit Costs With and Without the Project
31.    The substantial investments in improving the access and quality of public elementary education
provided in the TEEP provinces will substantially increase the recurrent unit costs of providing
elementary education. The current best estimate of the unit costs of elementary education in 1994 is
Peso 4085, of which the public sector contributes 69.1% (see Table 2). The comparison between 1994
and 2003 is inherently problematic, as the unit costs for 1994 include DECS' overhead too (see previous
section). In addition, the cost estimates for 1997 and 2003 are likely to underestimate the true operating
costs. Personnel services for instance, includes the costs of all teachers, school principals and district
supervisors to the extent feasible. Yet the costs of personnel for district offices etc. are not included.
Similar caveats apply to maintenance and operating expenditures. With these caveats in mind, we
estimate that the project will require that the public sector increase its financing of expenditure allocated
to personnel services and MOOE by 30-40% in real terms for providing elementary education in these
provinces. The project is also reducing the need for teachers by encouraging multi-grade teaching. The
real costs of personal services stay almost constant, but the MOOE expenditures increase by almost
220% over the period 1997 to 2003.
Table 3: Public Sector Unit Costs in Elementary Education
Unit cost component                   1994        l       1997        1      2003
(in 1997 pesos, unless otherwise noted) a
Per student personnel services                 n.a.             3570.93             3494.44
Per student-MOOE                               n.a                161.29             366.38
Per student-annualized cost of capital         n.a                 73.91             458.52
expenditures
Total operating costs per student           3678.26b1           3806.13             4319.84
Total operating  costs  per student          3060.90            3806.13             5399.79
(current prices)                                          I                   I                   I
The GNP deflator from the CAS was used to convert the 1994 unit cost to 1997 prices. The unit costs for 2003 were converted to
1997 prices using the cumulative price contingency of 25% Included In the project costing between 1997 and 2003.
This unit cost includes the cost of DECS' sector management (see previous section) in addition to the operating costs. The
breakdown Is unavailable.



- 60 -                                  Annex 2
Pricing Policy With and Without the Project
32.   The government will bear the costs of the interventions proposed in the project, and impose no
additional cost recovery from the students for the inputs supplied toward improving quality. The project
will in fact reduce the costs of a "quality adjusted schooling" for school going children through an
increased availability of textbooks, a decrease in the distance to a complete school, and better trained
teachers. Private contributions to augment public school budgets through donations, or the purchase of
school inputs, such as textbooks and supplies, as well as transportation costs to better schools which are
further away, should be lowered from its current level of 30% as adequate school inputs are provided in
public schools, and complete schools are provided closer to home.
33.   Can the Government Afford it? The key question is: Can the Philippine government (GoP)
finance the activities under the project and continue undertak-ing them in a sustained manner beyond the
life of the project? At present education is primarily a Central Government expenditure responsibility.
Education accounts for a relatively high share of the annual national government budget (26%), and the
government is expected to continue to maintain this share. However, within the education budget, there
has been a decline in the share of elementary education from its peak of 60% in 1987 to around 54% in
1993. Local governments (LGUs) have been active in financing education, with the average share of the
LGUs increasing from 2% in 1990 to about 7% in 1993. The school building program component of the
overall education budget will be partially devolved to the local governments in 1997. The ability of the
GoP to finance the project was analyzed by comparing the projected government budget allocated to
elementary education to the projected subsidy associated with delivering elementary education in the
TEEP provinces during the project life.  These comparisons identified the annual financing
deficits/surpluses within each budget category. The current government budget was projected to 2003
using the growth rates of government consumption expenditure from the CAS and the capital account of
the budget was projected using the growth rates of government investment. The budgets were projected
in three different categories: personnel services, maintenance and operating expenditures (MOOE) and
capital expenditures. According to the Memorandum of Policy, the share of the education budget
allocated to elementary education will increase from its current level to 60% in the year 2001 and stay
constant thereafter. This assumption is built into the projections of the GoP's budget constraint. Three
alternate scenarios for projecting the government budget constraint are analyzed in paras. 4.35-4.40 of
the SAR, and the results are summarized in Table 4.



Table 4: Fiscal Impact
1997         1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003        1997-2003
(NlMllion Pesos)
Subsidy Requirement
Current              7,223.97      8,857.41        9,775.01     10,187.80   10,453.44     10,776.78     10,591.14     67,865.56
Capital               882.40         1,894.29   1,687.44       9,468.35      1,325.50        1,106.02     664.43       8,846.37
Budge- Constraint
Scenario 1
Central Government
Cunrent              6,348.41      7,562.95     8,461.41      9,468.357     12,494.04     13,973,2      13,249.01     67,531.61
Capital               669.24        692.95        777.15        871.03         976,07      1,092.10      1,222.62      8,846.37
Surplus/Deficit       -1,088.73     -1,201.35        -2,223.89  -1,134.72       -208.50      1,056.40     3,216.06      -2,879.18
Scenario 2        2
Central Govemment
Cuffent             7,492.80      8,925.50       9,983.38     11,168.76     12,494.04     13,973,922    15,630.39    79,668.78
Capital               700.60        829.41        936.64       1,057.39      1,193.85      1,335,767     1,495.42      7,549.08
SurpbhDef1cft            87.03       -996.80       -542.43        752,04       1,908.95      3,426,887     5,870.24     10,505.93
Scenario 3=-Scenario 2 Central Government Financing +LGU Financing
Local Govemmxent
Capital               27.00          66.13         87.68       111.15         117.43       103.40         81.95         594.73
Surpluz/Defidt         114.04        -930.66       -454.75       863.19       2,026.38      3,530.28      5,952.18      11,100.66



- 62 -                                    Annex 2
D. COST EFFECTIVENESS/COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Measurement of Effectiveness
34.   Primary School Completion Rate. In the absence of a good study on the determinants of
primary school completion for the Philippines, projecting the impact of the interventions of the TEEP on
the flow of students is tentative at best. We use the evidence at hand from studies in Indonesia and
Vietnam to illustrate the range of impacts. The package of interventions on improving quality that we
can hypothesize an impact for are: lack of supplies (interpreted as an inadequacy of textbooks,
instructional materials), the availability of good teachers, and the quality of buildings (based on results
from Vietnam and Indonesia to a limited extent). The project will also improve access by providing
complete schools within an hours walk, and the effect on primary school completion rates can be
illustrated with results from Indonesia.
35.    Mason (1994) shows the impact of improving the "school quality" and other policy interventions
on the primary school to lower secondary school transition probabilities in rural Java. Eliminating
school fees and material costs have a large effect on the transition rate from primary to secondary school
of the poor in rural Java. School quality, as proxied by the ratio of broken-down to maintained
classrooms, is a proxy in this study for the recurrent expenditure on schools. More refined measures of
school quality, such as the availability of textbooks, study materials, or teacher quality are unavailable.
Mason argues that the price of going to school includes some measure of quality which is hard to
disentangle. Hence, the true effect of school quality, is probably higher than that estimated in this study.
In addition, King (1995) studies the determinants of transition from primary to secondary school for all
of Indonesia (not just rural Java). The results for all of Indonesia show similar trends, but a higher
degree of responsiveness to changes in school fees and other direct costs than those found for Java.
Table 5 shows the effects of four different pricing simulations on the transition probabilities of entry into
primary school, and the transition to lower secondary school for the poor in Indonesia in 1989. The
results show that a reduction in the price of schooling will increase the rate at which children from poor
households enter school, and continue on to higher levels. The pricing reform simulations focus on their
effect on increasing the enrollment rate of the poorest quintile, and comparing the simulated effect for
that quintile with the enrollment rates of the middle quintile. The transition probability of primary to
lower secondary school increases by 67% for the poor if they are given an augmented subsidy that
reflects the opportunity cost of school attendance and out of pocket expenditures for school. Reducing
the distance to school to within I km. raises the probability of transition from primary to lower
secondary school from 0.46 to 0.53, an increase of about 14%. A study in Vietnam (Glewwe and Jacoby,
1995) examines the determinants of enrollment in primary school and primary school completion. The
analysis includes the effects of some primary school quality variables. These include the percentage of
teachers trained, the lack of supplies, the availability of good teachers, and the poor quality of the
building, and all of them have a significant impact on the probability of completing primary school. We
simulate the effects of a 25%, 50% and 90% improvement in the three school quality variables (the lack
of supplies, poor quality building, and poor quality teachers) at different initial levels of primary school
completion. The other explanatory variables are held constant (at the mean values of the explanatory
variables).



- 63 -                                       Annex2
Table 5: Effects of Pricing Simulations on Transition Probabilities of the Poor, Indonesia 1989
Pricing Simulation            Probability of   Percentage        Probability of   Percentage
enrolling in    increase in       enrolling in     increase in
primary school   probability of   secondary        transition
enrolling in     school,          probability of
primary school    conditional on  poor
(%)              having finished
primary school
Poorest Quintile
Predictions at actual values       0.725                              0.461
Predictions if all fees are        0.730             0.69             0.583           26.46
abolished
Prediction if all fees are         0.774             6.76             0.771           67.25
abolished and a subsidy equal to
child wages is provided
Predictions if schools are no                                         0.503            9.11
more than 3 km from home
Predictions if schools are no      0.731             0.83             0.526           14.10
more than I km from home
Middle Quintile
Predictions at actual values       0.793                              0.698      _
Source: Elizabeth M. King: Does the Price of Schooling Matter? Fees, Opportunity Costs, and Enrollment in Indonesia, March 1995.
36.    The primary school completion rates in the TEEP provinces range from 30% to 80% with a mean
of 55%. The effects of the three scenarios is presented below. Scenario 2 was picked as the likely
expected impact of the project, after discussions with the Department of Education, Culture and Sports
staff. The impact of the school quality variables may be somewhat optimistic in Scenario 2, and the true
impact will likely be a range of estimates between those of Scenarios I and 2. It should be recognized
that there are many interventions (such as the decentralization, and giving schools more autonomy)
which are likely to impact on schooling outcomes, but whose effects are difficult to quantify. A study
will be put in place in the first year to better understand the determinants of primary school completion,
and this study will be used to refine the current estimates.
Table 6: Estimated Impact of Improvements in School Quality on the Primary School Completion
Rate, Vietnam 1990
Initial Completion Rate       Scenario I               Scenario 2            Scenario 3
25% improvement in three    50% improvement in     90% improvement
school quality inputs   three school quality inputs   in three school
quality inputs
30                                              47.0                   52.4
35                                              52.2                   57.6
40                                               57.4                  62.6
45                                              62.4                   67.4
50                                              67.0                   71.7
55                     63.5                     71.5                   75.9
60                                              75.6                   79.7
65                                              79.6                   83.2
70                                              83.3                   86.4
75                                              86.8                   89.5
80                                              90.0                   92.2
17



- 64-                                      Annex2
Table 7 shows the projected flow of students under Scenario 2.
Table 7: Projected Flow of Students With the Project
Year                Projected Flow of Students in 26 provinces
1994-95                             1,807,270
1995-96                             1,912,027
1996-97                             1,916,752
1997-98                             1,951,105
1998-99                             2,014,845
1999-2000                            2,085,393
2000-01                             2,141,412
2001-02                             2,144,130
2002-03                             2,184,199
37.    Learning Achievements. The Tan, Lan and Coustere (1995) study estimated the effect of
different school inputs on the Mathematics scores of Grade 1 students. We extrapolate the effects of this
analysis for the Mathematics scores on the National Educational Achievement Test scores, which is
administered to students at the end of Grade 6. Table 8 shows the results.
Table 8: Estimated Effect of School Inputs on Mathematics Achievement Test Scores
Mathematics           Percentage increase in
Achievement Test score        NEAT score22
TEEP provinces (1994 NEAT scores)             15.47
Increase due to effect of workbooks             1.17                      7.5
Increase due to of classroom furniture          1.94                     12.5
Increase due to additive effect of             3.11                      20.0
workbooks and classroom fumiture
E. PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
38.    The flow of students under the project in the TEEP provinces will be monitored. The impact
performance monitoring indicators are the primary school completion rates and the learning
achievements.
Table 9: Project Performance Indicators
Project Performance Impact Indicator       Baseline estimates        Benchmark
(1994)
Primary school completion rate                        55             63.5 - 71.5%
Learning achievements                                 65             Increase of 20%
22  The standard deviation of the Mathematics test scores for all of Philippines is 6.01, and is used as the basis for
predicting the increase in the test score.
18



PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Role of Other Donors
Donor                                       Focus of Activity                                             Role in TEEP
Asian Development Bank     Supports Non-Formal and Secondary Education; several grants for institution  Close coordination ADB/WB necessary to ensure
wazzu                      building (e.g., MIS in higher education); assisting DECS with preparation of Second  consistency  in  policies, design, and  to  avoid
Secondary education Project targeted at same provinces as TEEP          overstretching absorptive capacity of TEEP provinces
AusAID (Australian Bilateral  In recent years, main focus has been teacher in-service training, especially in lower  PROBE-assisted Teacher Training Institutions will
Aid)                       secondary and elementary Math, English and Science, notably in Region IX.(PROBE  support TEEP's INSET and school-based management
I & II); has provided expertise for TEEP preparation (distance education, teacher  program mainly in Region IX
training, assessment); voctech project under preparation
CIDA (Canadian International  For many years, free provision of paper for textbook provision; more recently, use of  Operationalization of pedagogical decentralization in
Development Agency)        TA program to support capacity-building in Local Governments; during TEEP  TEEP provinces; support to LGU institutions affected
preparation, support to privatization  of textbook  sector and  pedagogical  by TEEP (School Boards)
decentralization for school effectiveness (INSET and school-based management)
JICA  (Japanese International  Soft window of Japanese Bilateral Aid; main intervention is Science & Maths  TEEP will build on lessons learned from  JICA
Cooperation Agency)        Education Manpower Development Project, incl. Science Teacher Training Center at  experience and tap Japanese expertise for primary
University of Philippines; also assistance to secondary education instructional  maths and science curriculum and teacher training
equipment, and to typhoon-resistant primary and secondary schoolbuildings and  revision
educational facilities
OECF (Overseas Economic  Main donor to the Philippines; Loan window of Japanese Bilateral aid; has  Cofinancing of about US$110 million; joint appraisal
Cooperation Fund)          cofinanced several Bank projects including Second Elementary Education and  and supervision with IBRD
Engineering and Science Education Projects
UNDP/UNICEF                Promoter of Human Development Approach; integrated focus on children, especially  Will play an increasing role in the development,
early childhood development, school health, immunization and nutrition, and  support to implementation and evaluation of TEEP
multigrade teacher training and materials; lead role in preparation of multigrade  multigrade program.                      X
teachers.                                                                                                                   N
HEDCO (Irish Bilateral Aid)  To be defined and confirmed                                            Role might include support to INSET and pedagogical
renovation through Twinning Arrangement with
Teacher Education Institution.
m:Adelaoedoc



PHILIPPINES: THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: 26-Provinces Basic Indicators and Chronological Phasing
No. of
Number    Incomplete          No. of          No. of       No. of Teachers
Region             Province/         TEEP      Enrollments'   of Schools2     Schools       Classrooms       Principals       (Public)
City           Batch                                    (Public)       (Public)         (Public)
A. SRA Provinces
CAR                Benguet                 First        43,986          267           64             2,092            55              1,363
CAR                Ifugao                  First        22,095          178           42             1,227             27               724
VI                 Antique                 First        56,728          422           14             2,852            90              2,455
VI                 Guimaras                First        17,507           90            7              806              26               585
CARAGA             Agusan del Sur          First        52,121          375           77             2,256             17             1,939
CARAGA             Surigao del Sur         First        61,506          382           78             2,410             44             2,160
CAR                Abra                    Third        27,469          250           66             1,680             49              1,97
CAR                Kalinga-Apayao4         Third        29,603          286           53             1,646             35             1,149
CAR                Mt. Province            Third        15,516          148           14             1,190             24               701
n                  Batanes                 Third         2,275           19            5              134               8               117
IV                 Aurora                  Third        21,286          106           20             1,028             24               716
IV                 Romblon                Second        34,296          183           27             1,847             41             1,312
V                  Masbate                Second        83,205          557           74             3,604            129             3,669
VmI                Biliran                Second        16,951          947           15              947              23               835
vim                 Eastern Samar          Third        44,878          399           48             2,435             51             2,234
vIm                 Southern Leyte        Second        47,518          305           43             2,266             50             1,987
IX                 Basilan                 Third        28,233          250           46             1,722             30             1,371
ARMM               Sulu                    Third        51,971          368           68             1,757             54             2,145
ARMM               Tawi-Tawi               Third        33,721          220           33             1,112             32             1,306                      a
B. Additional 6 PCW  Provinces
VI                 Capiz                   Third        69,954          385           75             3,147             86             2,754
vn                 Negros Oriental        Second       109,441          545          131             4,983             99             3,940
VmI                Leyte                  Second       157,018         1,007         130             6,505            161             6,229
IX                 Zamboanga del Sur      Second       136,557          848          169             5,765             57             4,742
xii                North Cotabato         Second       103,647          564           43             4,000             88             3,371
ARMM               Maguindanao             Third        83,815          411           77             2,082             63             2,204
TOTAL                                                1,351,297        9,512         1419           59,493            1363            50,106
C. Additional 5 Provinces witb large numbers of poor
mnllies (Pipeline)
I                  Pangasinan                          272,391         1,052          31            10,795            399             8,826
VI                 Dloio                               187,052          935            0             8,427            246             6,906
vII                Bohol                               126,748          877          302             5,489            126             4,706
VII                Cebu                                213,013          921          121             8,531            215             7,039
IX                 Zamboanga del Norte                  67,283          493           81             3,611             82             2,691
1   1995 data; need to be replaced by 6-12 for TEEP period
2    994 data
3   SRA = Social Reform Agenda
4   Province split in two; breakdown not yet available
5   PCFP = Presidential Commission to Fight Poverty



PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 2: Education in the 26 Provinces (94-95)
Region               Province/           Participation Rate     Completion Rate          Achievement             Literacy Rate
City                    0                    (Public)             Rate (Public)              (1990)
.  |   %               %                     73&                      %
A. SRA Provinces
CAR                Benguet                          90                      74                                             93
CAR                Ifugao                           83                      44                     77                   77Public
VI                 Antique                           84                     62                     66                      90
VI                 Guimaras                         83                      61                     65                      94
CARAGA             Agusandel Sur                    65                      62                     65                      90
CARAGA             Surigao del Sur                   77                     57                     68                      93
CAR                Abra                              89                     68                     63                      92
CAR                Kalinga-Apayao2                   77                     48                     61                      87
CAR                Mt. Province                      84                     59                     71                      81
11                 Batanes                          97                      86                     75                      96
IV                 Aurora                           87                      61                     70                      96
IV                 Romblon                          85                      68                     65                      94
V                  Masbate                           77                     50                     54                      90
ViI                Biliran                          --                      61                     89                      90
vIm                Eastem Samar                     81                      62                     74                      91
vm                 Southem Leyte                     89                     71                     64                      92
IX                 Basilan                          62                      35                     57                      66
ARMM               Sulu                              66                     33                     58                      59
ARMM               Tawi-Tawi                         93                     33                     75                      59
B. Additional 6 PCFP3 Provinces
VI                 Capiz                             83                     61                     65                      90
Vll                Negros Oriental                   74                     42                     58                      84
ViI                Leyte                             83                     59                     65                      91
iX                 Zamboanga del Sur                 77                     48                     66                      88
XIl                North Cotabato                    72                     60                     59                      88
ARMM               Maguindanao                       72                     33                     71                      88
C. Additional 5 Intensely Poor Provinces (Pipeline)
I                  Pangasinan                        93                     82                     67                      96
VI                 Iloilo                            87                     65                     65                      95
Vil                Bohol                             83                     69                     69                      92
VIl                Cebu                              82                     65                     67                      92
(D
IX                 Zamboanga del Norte              73                      48                     58                      87
Source: Staff calculations from FIES 1991 data tapes.
teepsar/annex4-2.doc
I Social Reform Agenda
2 Split in two; breakdown not yet available
Presidential Commission to Fight Poverty



PHILIPPINES: THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: Poverty in the TEEP Provinces
Name of Province    Population     % of       Number of   Nominal Per  Incidence of    Depth of    Severity of   Contribution to       Gini
national   children 6-12   Capita Mean   Poverty       Poverty      Poverty    National Poverty
population   years of age   Expenditure    (% of(%
population)     (%)           (%)
Abra                   214705        0.318      32123        Provinces         66.87         22.83         9.74          0.461          28.74
7121.06
Agusan Del Sur         408420        0.606     104629           7013.72        81.11         31.07        14.60          1.063           36.22
Antique                 484108       0.718      93033           8053.74        57.69         21.25         9.37          0.896           33.76
Basilan                 266761       0.396      56249           7381.67        74.62         22.90         8.98          0.639           32.71
Batanes                  11531       0.017       1912           18178.79       29.95         11.92         5.39          0.011           45.73
Benguet                 552148       0.819      87395           14980.24       18.70          2.78         0.60          0.331           34.05
Capiz                   699979       1.038     117169           7443.55        63.25         19.52         0.78          1.421           27.75
Eastern Samar           415178       0.616      63126           7790.99        52.27         15.73         6.50          0.697           30.90
Ifiugao                 145525       0.215      32575           7563.96        71.85         20.82         7.93          0.336           29.61     a
Kalinga-Apayao          263184       0.390      48230           9538.98        45.42         13.47         5.39          0.384           31.77      o
Leyte                  1623536       2.408     295156           7815.26        58.31         18.91         8.20          3.039           35.01
Maguindanao             735971       1.091     155685           8792.85        66.94         20.10         7.61          1.581           35.71
Masbate                 797683       1.183     136038           5834.58        82.40         40.46        23.52          2.110           40.77
Mountain Provinces     142154        0.211      26833           8000.03       52.061         21.55         9.80          0.238           32.63
Negros Oriental        1062258       1.575     176872            8142.19       62.77         23.04        10.58          2.140           42.03
Cotabato                849405       1.260     155464           8231.73        64.71         26.28        13.12          1.764           39.97
Romblon                 201693       0.299      45957           5422.19        89.97         48.45        29.35          0.570           33.58
Souther Leyte           339503       0.503      59457           7953.18        54.29         16.04         6.11          0.592          32.97
Sulu                    441861       0.655     103814           6279.80        79.01         23.99         9.44          1.121           19.73
Surigao Del Sur         531162       0.788     100211           10959.45       53.73         18.04         7.41          0.916           39.90
Tawi-Tawi               274188       0.407      47230            8849.76       50.25         13.12         4.54          0.442           27.08
Zamboanga Del Sur      1699717       2.521     299943            8713.71       52.42         19.75         9.73          2.860           35.99
Aurora                  174627       0.259      34397           11462.59       60.10         18.94         7.69          0.337           37.66
Source: FIES, 1994
x-



PHILIPPlNES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4: Poverty Statistics for the Philippines, 1994
Population    % of      Number of  Nominal Per  Incidence of    Depth of     Severity of  Contribution to   Gini
national  children 6-12    Capita      Poverty      Poverty       Poverty       National
population   years of age  Mean          (% of                                   Poverty
Expenditure  population)      (%)          (%)            (%)
Philippines          67430864     100.00     11289388     12798.42       46.20         15.24         6.67         100.00        39.85
Urban Philippines    33569459   49.78                    17227.97      29.49          8.59         3.47          31.77         41.62
Rural Philippines  33861405      50.22                    8407.06      62.77         21.84         9.85          68.23         34.52
TEEP Provinces       11553579     17.13      2147429       7913.95       63.20        22.66          10.50        23.44         36.03
Urban TEEP          3161523      4.69                    10478.89      47.05         15.09          6.43          4.77         38.36    l
Rural TEEP          8392056      12.44                   6947.67       69.29         25.51         12.03         18.66         32.89
Non-TEEP Provinces   55877285     82.87       9141960     13808.36       42.69         13.71         5.88          76.56         42.61    _
Urban Non-TEEP     30407936     45.09                    17929.67      27.66          7.91         3.17          27.00         41.15    l
Rural Non-TEEP     25469349     37.77                     8887.92      60.63         20.63         9.13          49.56         34.40
Source: Staff calculations from the 1994 FIES.
x



- 70 -                              Annex 5
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.    The TEEP is a set of inputs (textbooks, equipment, civil works, specialist services)
designed to allow a particular set - of activities (policy and institutional change, in-service
training) to be undertaken to achieve a number of outcomes (increased effectiveness and
efficiency, more equitable access to quality education, improved learning achievements, reduced
drop-outs...) leading to beneficial impacts on education (a more literate and numerate work force,
better informed citizenry, more social cohesion...).
2.    Performance indicators are designed to answer four basic questions:
(a)   For inputs: were the resources adequate, available on time, and cost-conscious?
(b)   For project activities: were the activities completed on time, cost-effectively, to
expected quality standards?
(c)   For outputs and outcomes: have the activities led to results, are those results the
initially agreed outcomes, have they benefited the intended target group?
(d)   For impact: did all of this lead to improvements in children learning, completion
rates, enrollments, project sustainability?
3.    Table 5.1 shows which type of indicators have been selected for each of the two project
components. Table 5.2 provides the baseline and quantified targets. Table 5.3 explains how the
indicators will be monitored and when. Table 5.4 presents the project's monitoring and
evaluation strategy. The following paragraphs provide additional information on the indicators.
Given that the number of indicators is limited to 11, a conscious decision has been made not to
include in the list the indicators routinely monitored in the Quarterly Progress Reports of the
Implementing Agency: disbursements, procurement, number of teachers trained but rather, to
complement them.
Extent to which Policy Decisions are Based on Data and Analysis
4.    This is one of two non quantified indicators. Obviously policy and investment decisions
will always have to reflect political considerations, but the issue is one of balance. Two cases in
point are (a) the decision whether to add an 11th year to the 10-year basic education cycle and
where in the cycle; and (b) frequent statements about the order of magnitude of teacher
shortages, which seem to be seriously overstated due to unreliable data. Decisions made to
address the perceived teacher shortage will be incremental and can be corrected; on the other
hand, the decision regarding the 11th year, once taken, will have major consequences and will be
difficult to reverse. The monitoring of this indicator will be a content analysis of decision



- 71 -                              Annx 5
rationales. It will be used as an opportunity to maintain a fruitful dialogue on the project
research agenda.
Timeliness and Accuracy of Statistical Yearbooks
5.    Although it has the capacity, DECS does not publish a Statistical Yearbook on a regular
and predictable basis. Sophisticated analysis and even relatively simple operations such as
cohort analysis are difficult to perform and the results lack credibility because of the low quality
of the data. This issue is also the cause of major planning problems. The MIS component will
help DECS improve the quality of the data by simplifying the requirements on the schools and
providing training to all TEEP stakeholders on the collection, value and use of statistics.
Monitoring the timeliness of the statistical book (four months after the beginning of the SY) is an
easy and objective indicator. Monitoring the quality of the data will require a validity study
which could be funded under the research component. Adequate attention to this issue is
fundamental to improving and modernizing the management of the sector.
Gap between Planned and Actual Expenditures
6.    Expenditures: Multiple changes in budget format and nomenclature make it difficult to
observe relevant indicators over a period of time. In addition, the recording of actual expenditure
commitment does not match the detailed format of initial budget appropriations. This makes it
difficult to monitor the actual implementation of specific budget programs and objectives. The
following will be monitored:
(a)   In PY1:  Revision of the budget presentation (as recommended in Public
Expenditure Review)
(b)   Every PY: The pattern of actual versus budgeted expenditures. Baseline: during
1991-93, underspending averaged 6 percent of DECS total budget allocation.
Target: By the end of the project, no more than a 5 percent gap between net
disbursables and actual expenditures, taking into account the school year within
which it is allowed to disburse. Monitoring will be limited to TEEP provinces.
Institutionalization of In-service Training (INSET)
7.    This indicator will be measured by the following items: (a) formalization of an INSET
policy statement and Plan of Action; (b) full development of INSET Guidelines; (c) full
deployment of INSET support structure; (d) adequate INSET budget; (e) on-going monitoring of
INSET program, with a focus on substance (is teacher behavior changing? for instance, during
classes, is the proportion of time spent by the teacher lecturing as opposed to actively engaging
the pupils declining?), not just process (number of teachers trained); and (f) integration of
distance education into INSET Plan of Action. Elements (a) through (e) should be in place
before project effectiveness, but are expected to be refined from year-to-year in light of
experience as new batches of provinces are coming on stream. Element (e) will require special



- 72 -                              Annex 5
studies, to be funded under the research component, and (f) is unlikely to be operationalized until
PY3. This is closely linked to the next indicator.
Level of Resources Flowing Directly to Schools
8.    Resources will flow directly to schools under two schemes:
(a)   two DECS orders dated March 22, 1996 which direct the transfer of GAA funds
for school construction, desks, INSET and MOOE to the Divisions and, where
possible, the schools themselves.
(b)   The School Improvement and Innovation Facility (SIIF).
TEEP will monitor: (i) operationalization and implementation of the two DECS Orders;
and (ii) the award of grants to schools as follows:
Number of Grants:
Category of School         97    98    99    20    01   02   03   Total
High Risk (45% of Grants)         45   135   225   360                765
Medium Risk(45% of Grants)        45   135   225   360                765
Low Risk (10% of Grants)          10   30    50    80                 170
Total                            100   300   500   800               1,700
In addition to those mechanistic indicators, spot-checks conducted by NGOs in the context of the
annual participatory performance audit will monitor the qualitative impact of these grants and
more generally pedagogic improvements at the school level (five percent of the total). They will
monitor: (a) the frequency, purpose and outcome of meetings or other forms of interaction
between the school and the community (PTAs, LGUs, other) , for which schools will be asked to
keep a simple record; (b) at the school level, changes in the nature and impact of contacts
between the supervisor, principal and teachers (also to be recorded succinctly in a school diary);
and (c) the number of school management advisory committees functioning after three years.
Central/Local Government Cost-sharing as a Targeting Mechanism
9.    The formula, to be based on ability-to-pay {own revenues+IRA/population}, equity
[headcount index] and need [completion rate], will be presented at negotiations. The project will
monitor the share of total education expenditures, by category (capital, personnel, MOOE) going
to the 26 provinces, both as a group and individually, relative to their population. Baseline: (to
be refined by negotiations) the 26 provinces account for 20 percent of the country's school-age
population, and 24 percent of the poor, yet they only receive 16.7 percent of resources. Target:
at a minimum, beginning in PY2, (Philippine FY1998) the TEEP provinces should receive no
less than 20 percent of total appropriations for elementary education. This should be adequate to
ensure project sustainability but for real targeting should gradually be further increased.
Underlying this, TEEP will also assist DECS in monitoring the Memorandum of Policy
commitment to maintain the share of education in the national budget (excluding debt payment



-73 -                               Annex 5
and IRA) at 26 percent, and to increase the share of elementary education from 47 percent
(present) to 60 percent by 2001.
Textbook:pupil ratio in Remote Schools
10.   Baseline: The textbook:pupil ratio in the six pilot provinces ranges from 1:3 in Benguet
to 1:6 in Antique, Agusan and Surigao. There are no full sets of books at the moment. Target:
DECS is committed to providing one set of four books for every two pupils and one set of three
workbooks for every multigrade child, by the beginning of SY97-98. The criteria for DEDP
approval will include the spelling out of a divisional strategy for ensuring that, once the books
are delivered to the district level, community arrangements are set-up to ensure that they are
transported to the schools. Bank missions will monitor the budget allocation for textbooks and
instructional materials and the annual performance audit will conduct spot-checks in remote
schools to verify availability.
Pupils Scores in English, Mathematics and Science
11.   Baseline: The achievement rates are presented in Annex 4, Table 2.
Target: a 20 percent increase by the end of the project. Initial NEAT scores will be statistically
equated with a new instrument to be used in PY2, PY4 and PY6 to monitor impact on a sample
basis.
Completion Rates through Grade VI
12.   Baseline: At present, in the TEEP provinces the completion rates range from 30 to 80
percent and average 55 percent. Target: the list presented in Annex 2, Table 6 shows, under two
scenarios, the potential impact, on completion rates, of a package of three interventions -- teacher
in-service training, school buildings, and instructional material. The impact was estimated on the
basis of (a) three Bank studies on the cost-effectiveness of different educational inputs on
elementary completion in the Philippines; and (b) where Philippines-specific studies were not
available, on comparable analyses conducted in Vietnam and Indonesia. Scenarios 2 and 3
reflect respectively 50 and 90 percent of the potential impact of the three sets of inputs (scenario
1, reflecting a conservative 25 percent of the potential impact, was not fully elaborated). TEEP's
evaluation studies will improve the coverage and quality of the school-level data available in the
country. The indicators will be monitored by province.
Percentage of Children Less Than One Hour's Walk from School
13.   Baseline: The table below summarizes the nationwide situation expressed in time rather
than Kilometers to reflect variations of terrain. The indicator will be specified by province,
based on the detailed school-map.



- 74 -                              Annex 5
|_________________ -Percentage of Students
Grade I              Grade 4               Grade 6
Less than I hour         87                     77                   79
I hour or more           13                    23                    21
Source: Cortes and de Guzman: The Determinants of Schooling Achievement, HSMS Report No. 4
Target: 95 percent of the 6-12 year olds will be less than one hour's walk from school by the end of the
project.
Participation
14.   Participation lies at the core of TEEP preparation and implementation, based on the
assumption that stakeholder involvement will lead to improvements in the quality of education.
Baseline: until now, parents and communities have never been consulted. Target: stakeholders
must be satisfied that they have been consulted during preparation of their DEDPs, and, during
implementation, that their needs are being addressed. The method to be used are the yearly
participatory audit mentioned in para. 8. Stakeholders are defined as DECS personnel at all
levels, school boards and school management advisory committees, parents and LGUs, with
special attention to ethnic communities.



Table 5.1: Project Performance Indicators
Component                           Issue                 Input       Output/Outcome Indicators         Impact Indicatorsl
Indicators
Capacity building performance is   Policy decisions seldom based on              Education policy decisions
measured by improvements in key    analysis                                      more often based on data and
adequate analysis
management behaviors               Publication of statistical book               Timely preparation (4 months)
irregular, incomplete and                    of accurate national educational
inaccurate data                              statistics
Financial and physical                       Expenditures--and the number
achievements lagging behind                  of new classrooms, trainees and
SAR schedules                                textbooks--within 5% of each
annual plan
INSET supply-driven, teacher-                                             Institutionalized human resource
centered, with inequitable access                                         development program
Lack of discretionary resources at  Investments in
school level                  school-based
innovations
Potential LGU funding untapped,                                           Cost sharing for central/local
risk of wider inequities                                                  Government targeting on poor
Dearth of textbooks in remote                Ratio of textbook-to-student
DEDPs: Education quality           schools
improvements are measured by       Limited access to complete                    Percent of children within one-
increases in test scores, completion  school major cause of dropout              hour walk of a complete school
rates, and access to complete schools in  Limited learning in poor                                            Scores on learning achievement
the targeted provinces; participation  provinces/schools2                                                     tests in English, math and science
measured by stakeholder satisfaction  Low completion rates in poor                                            Completion rates through grade
provinces                                                                 VI
Lack of stakeholder participation            Satisfaction of stakeholders vis.
in sectoral decisions                        involvement in DEDPs
0
Trends on the quantitative impact indicators will be assessed during project implementation.
2   Sample based assessment will provide scores every second year that can be statistically converted to equivalent NEAT scores.



Table 5.2: Project Performance Indicators, Annual Targets
Component                    Indicator                    Baseline CY96             Unit         97        98      99      00      01      02       03
Capacity building:      More information-based policy   Policy decisions more political    study
decisions.                     than data-based                                          _
Performance is measured   Timely preparation of accurate  Erratic publication (within  months %        10          8       6       4        4       4       4
by improvements in key    national educational statistics  12 mos.), incomplete and    error      (SY 97-98)
management behaviors    within fewer months of beginning   inaccurate data
of SY
Expenditures-and the number of    Achievements are 25% behind  %              15         12       10       8       7       6        5
new classrooms, trainees and    annual schedules for education
textbooks-- within 5% of each   projects
annual plan
Institutionalized human resource    Erratic process with little demand   Teachers  System in   4,500  10,000  20,000  30,000  40,000  50,000
development program             driven planning                & Admin  place           250     500      800   1,000   1,500   2,000
Investments in school-based    No money currently flows to the   no. of                 100     300      500     800
innovations                     schools for special projects   grants
Central/Local government cost   Varies by province (see text)  %              20        >20     >20     >20      >20     >20     >20  l
sharing of school building program   16.7% for all 26 provinces              FY98                                                      s
as tool for targeting on poor. TEEP                                                                                                    cr.
provinces must get more than pro-
rate share of E.E. budget                                                                            _
DEDPs: Education quality  Scores on learning achievement  Varies by province. NEAT test    Percent-    65         67      69      71       73      75      78
improvements are        tests in English, math and science   scores 65.13 (weighted average)   age
measured by increases in                                in 19952                       increase
test scores, completion  Ratio of textbook-to-student in  1:4 ratio (to be validated prior to   no.    1:4       2:1      2:1     2:1     2:1     2:1      2:1
rates, and access to    remote schools                  the project launch workshop)
complete schools in the  Percent of children within one-  79% (to be validated prior to the   %        79         81      84      87       90      93      95
targeted provinces      hour walk of a complete school  project launch workshop)                         _                _
Completion rates through grade VI  Varies by province. Weighted  %            55         58      61       63      65      68       71
average for 26 provinces was
55% in 1995
Stakeholder satisfaction       No participation                       PA                PA       PA     BA4      PA       PA      PA
Qualitative assessment of the following "in place": policies, procedures, structure, staffing, budget, and an operating plan of action; numbers trained.
2    Sample based assessment will provide scores every 2nd year that can be statistically converted to equivalent NEAT scores to be monitored on province basis.
3   PA = Participatory performance audit, to be conducted once a year with NGO assistance.
BA = Beneficiary assessment, similar to PA but more in-depth.



Table 5.3: Project Performance Indicators Sources and Timing
Component                           Indicator                       Source              Timing                           Method
Capacity building      More education policy decisions based on       PRF,           Annual, selective studies    Service contracts to begin in PY3.
data and analysis                             Eval
Timely preparation of more accurate national   S             Annual, selective data    Observe: is data due when planned, study to
educational statistics                                       quality evaluations       check usability.
Expenditures-and the number of new            SPN, MIS',    Annual, two studies on     Select key decisions, review relevant records,
classrooms, trainees and texts-within 5% of    Eval          quality of analysis       do interviews.
each annual plan
Institutionalized human resource development  MIS, SPN       Annual                    Assess quality of policies, plans, staffing,
program                                                                               implementation and evaluation of this
futnction.
Investments in school-based innovations       MIS            Quarterly                 PISU monitors quarterly, aggregates
annually. Annual participatory assessment.
Cost sharing by LGUs as tool for targeting on   PRF, MIS     Annual                    DS aggregates DO data; annual validation by
poor                                                                                   NGO/comimunity teams.
DEDPs: Education       Scores on learning achievement tests in        MIS            PY 2, 4 & 6              Sample based assessment managed from                   p
quality improvements  English, math and science                                                               headquarters.
Ratio of textbooks-to-student                 PRF, Eval      Annual                    DO collects from principals, DS aggregates
for PISU, NGO/community yearly assess.
Percent of children within one-hour walk of a   MIS, PRF     Annual                    School mapping data will be integrated with
complete school                                                                        the MIS; PRF will cover for first two years.
Completion rates through grade VI             MIS, Eval      Annual                    First year needed to sharpen baseline data
_____ ____ _____ ____ _   __ _____ ____ _____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ___ I  I__ _ __ _ _   I__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _   accuracy .
Participation                                 Yearly assmt.   Annual                   Participatory performance assessment.
1 PRF refers to the project report forms designed for this project.
2    Supervision will be done by Bank staff and Donors, but in field situations independent organizations such as NGOs will be engaged to assist in this role.2
Supervision will be done by Bank staff and Donors, but in field situations independent organizations such as NGOs will be engaged to assist in this role.      x
Evaluation research will be conducted by specialists such as university professors of education with appropriate research experience in overall framework
of the Policy Unit.
5    In cases in which the MIS does not generate sufficiently specific data, it will be supplemented by appropriate PRF information; this will be determined by
the Project Implementation Support Unit.



Table 5.4: Monitoring and Evaluation, Constraints and Strategies
Challenges                        Constraints                                 Strategies                 Positive Indicators
Quality of monitoring    Bias when each DS must monitor his or her own  Studies by PISU, Regional, and contractor  Consistent information from
success in creating changes in subordinates  staff to test accuracy                   various sources
Lack of knowledge and values about monitoring   Training managed by PISU and delivered by   Quality of data submitted from
Regional staff                            field
Quality of evaluation    Lack of technical training and skills needed for    Provided by PISU or Regional staff, or  Peer reviewers approve of
design and analysis                         contractors                               designs and analysis
Design and analysis not oriented to practical  Researchers submit all plans to a research  Non-technical staff believe
application                                 committee of managers                     research is useful
Frequency of monitoring  No travel money is provided, or if provided,  PISU and COA will review local internal  Consistent information from
money is used improperly                    control systems and recommend             various sources
improvements
A DS with many schools, may not have the time   TEEP will pilot new supervision approach  Absence of incomplete data due
to systematically monitor performance in all                                          to staff shortages
locationsa
Use of contractors       Pressure to show favoritism                  Make bidding process more transparent and    Contractor surveys indicate       o
broaden PBAC to spread decision-making   faimess in the system3
Lack skill in selecting and managing contractors   PISU trains superintendents in selection and    Contractor surveys indicate
management of contractors                 faimess in the system
Use of information       Reports are not timely                       Reduce amount of information requested;  Information is on hand when
establish flexible policy on missing      needed; written action plans are
information                               available for review
No one wants to submit negative or critical  Opportunity and resources to improve a    Surveys of monitoring staff
reports to top management                   situation are provided before any negative  indicate that they are seen as
report is forwarded to management         "helpful" by field
Lack of policies in advance to determine actions   Plan, participatively, the steps to be taken  Monitoring staff seen as "fair"
to be taken                                  when a problem arises                     by field
DS refers to Division Supervisor
Contractors would typically be university professors with expertise in field survey research design and analysis, although less technically trained NGO staff may
be used for some monitoring and less technically demanding evaluation projects.
Contractors who have both won and lost bids, as well as local DECS staff, will be surveyed since they are critically important stakeholders as far as gaining
community participation in this project is concerned.



- 79 -
Divisional Elementary Education Plan                                 Annex 6
PLANNING
DECS                             Products                        NON DECS
Outcomes
Integrates TEEP                     tl         ro
in National Prog               Yearly
AggregatesFundsProncilram
DECS CO                                Integration in total DECS program
evadvises                   in                   ud        So
coherence
YES Integration in TEEP
l odAppraises f  2                   NO          o       National
PISU                          *                             *     Technical
DEDPs                                            Assistance
tAdvises                                                     /
submission      c        review ot
DES RO                               for                /the DEDP
s _A_ zA_ ~~~appraisal/
Aggregates                          Funds           Provincial
DECS DO                     *        DED                              School
School PlasI                                           Board
4                  ~~~~~~~Integration            Muicpa
DECS District IAdvises                  in                  Fund       School
<                 ~~~~~~DEDP                       Board
Level of decentra ieat project start/
.....................      ....  . .  . .     .. .. .. ..     .......  ..  ...  .. ..
Initiates         c Scool 
| Principal                   *|   mprovement                          Barangay
l            ~~~~~and Coord nates | Edu Plan
participates in preparation,
\mplementation and monitoring
Level of decentralization planned for 2nd and 3r batch     \ of SIEP/DEDP
co-prepares SIE
and co-funds it     PTA       |



-80 -                             Annex 7
MEMORANDUM OF POLICY
June 30. 1996
MEMORANDUM
FOR    : THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF NEDA
FROM : THE SECRETARY OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORTS
SUBJECT: PROPOSED POLICIES GOVERNING PUBLIC INVESTMENTS
IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
The Department of Education, Culture and Sports is proposing an investment in the total
amount of $ 586.2M under the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP). The total
project expenditure is proposed to be incurred over a period of 7 years starting 1996 (on
retroactive financing basis) until the year 2003. The details of the project description, its
costing, financing plan and implementation arrangements are contained in a separate set of
project documents already submitted to the Investment Coordinating Committee.
The purpose of this memorandum is to present, for favorable SDC endorsement and
eventual NEDA Board approval, the general policies proposed to govern investments in
TEEP as well as in other public investment projects in elementary education. These
policies are essential for the effective and sustainable implementation of TEEP. In addition
to facilitating this particular project, these policies will also set the critical parameters for
much of the technical and managerial work needed to improve public elementary education
which should be undertaken by the DECS as wel as other cooperating govemrnment
agencies, such as DBM, DOF, DPWH, the local governments, among others.
The Department of Education, Culture and Sports seeks the favorable endorsement of the
SDC of these proposed policies and the eventual approval by the NEDA Board in order to
enswe that these policies govern not only the work of DECS but also the related work of
the rest of govmnment.
Broad Legal Basis of Government on Elementary Education
Government policy on elementary education is fundamentally governed by the following
specific provisions of the 1987 Constitution:
"the State shall protect and promote the right of all citizens to quality
education at all kvels and shall take appropriate steps to make education
accessible to all."



- 81 -                          Annex 7
*  the State shall, among others, "establish, maintain and support a complete,
adequate, and integrated system of education relevant to the needs of the
people and society; and establish and maintain a system of free public
education in the elementary and high schools levels. "
* all educational institutions shall "inculcate patriotism and nationalism, foster
love of humanity, respect for human rights, appreciation of the role of heroes
in the historical development of the country, teach the rights and duties of
citizenship, strengthen ethical and spiritual values, develop moral character
and personal discipline, encourage critical and creative thinking, broaden
scientific and technological knowledge, and promote vocational efficiency. "
The legislation governing the current operation of the Department of Education, Culture
and Sports, Executive Order No. 117, a law undcr the Freedom Constitution that
reorganized the DECS, declares the State policy that:
"the educational system shall make maximum contribution to the attainment of
national development goals; the State shall promote and maintain equality of
access to education and enjoyment of the benefits thereof by all citizens; and the
State shall use education as an instrument for the development of the cultural
communities of the nation and the deprived communities to enrich their
participation in the community and national life and to unify all Filipinos into a
free andjust nation. "
Substantive Directions Under the Ramos Administration
These general Constitutional and legislative have been translated into specific substantive
executive directions under the adninisirton of President Fidel V. Ramos. The current
Medium Tern Philippine Development Plan directs education to contribute to people
empowerment and world competitiveness. The government's Masterplan for Basic
Education further defines the goal of quality education as the development of people who
"believe in God love the country and people, proud of being Filipino with its
culture and history, committed to conserving and developing the nation's
resources, possesses indigenous and international values, proficient in Filipino
and English, creative and critical thinkers who are lifelong learners, and capable
of coping with changes in the environment and with competition."
For elementary and secondary education levels, this broad goal has been defined by the
same Masterplan as balanced development of the Filipno child in terms of:



- 82 -                          Annex 7
"literacy and numeracy, character formation and physical development, mastery
offundamental learning skills and preparation for tertiary studies or the world
of work "
In terms of the intended curriculum  for elementary education, these specific child
development goals have been expressed in terms of achieving desired competencies in core
subjects of elementary education, namely, Filipino, English, Math, Science, Social Studies
and Values Education.
Elementary education has been designed by the DECS with the intention of meeting four
specific learning objectives, namely:
1.  build basic knowledge andfoundation skills, atttudes and values essential
to personal development and social integration;
2.  provide learning experiences that increase awareness and responsiveness
essentialfor constructive and effective involvement with society;
3.  enhance love of nation and culture; and
4.  promote work experiences to prepare for hones and gainful work
Furthermore, education poicy in the Rainos Administration has explicitly recognized the
importance of education's contribution to the improvement of living standards and socio-
economic status of the disadvantaged. As stated in the Education for Al Plan:
"Basic education as an anti-poverty instrument can provide the skills, attitudes,
knowledge and values that people can use to organize themselves for common
access to useful information, and a united approach to greater productivity. It
can also empower the marginalized and prevent their exploitation and alienation
from the development process. "
Thus basic educafion, including elementary education, has been made an essential part of
the Social Reform Agenda. Public clementay education is included in the SRA both as a
sectoral intervention in the social sector, as wel as a geographically targeted intrvention in
the poorest provinces.



-83 -                               Annex 7
Priority Goals in Elementary Education
In order to satisfy these Constitutional, legislative and executive mandates, elementary
education outcomes in general have to improve. Since close to 93% of total elementary
school enrollment (or about 80% of total elementary school age population) are in public
schools, the outcomes of public elementary education, in particular, have to substantially
improve. The key outcomes of interest are interrelated: universal participation in
schooling; uninterrupted completion of 6 years of instruction; and higher levels of Icarning
achievement.
But in order to substantially, systematically and sustainably improve student outcomes from
public elementary education, two key intermediate and parallel objectives have to be both
attained in due course. The institutional capacity of DECS to manage the delvery of
effective elementary education has to be strengthened. At the same time, those critical
conditions of public elementary education delivery that have the greatest contribution to
participation, completion and achievement also have to be improved. In other words,
improved institutional capacity to manage provision of effective education has to be
achieved together with improved concrete conditions in provision of such effective
education.
Thus, the policies proposed below seek to contribute to meeting the following priority.
goals:
Primary Goal: improve student outcomes from public elementary education in
terms of participation, completion and achievement.
Corollary Goal A: improve DECS management and professional capacity for
delivering public elementary education that yields better outcomes.
Corollary Goal B: improve actual conditions for delivering public elementary
education that yields better outcomes.
Policies on Financing Public Elementary Education
1.     Finanae and Educaional Ouam   :  Government wi progressively mobilize
increasing levels of sustainable central, local and private financing necessary to achieve ever
improving educational outcomes while improving equity in access to education. At each
level of financing made available by the economy, DECS, as the primary government
agency in education delivety, shall seek to operationally obtain the best possible aggregate
student outcomes within the overall budget constraints.



- 84 -                               Annex 7
2.     Inter-Setoral Resource Aocation:   As education already accounts for a
relatively high 26% of the annual national government budget, government will maintain
this approximate percentage share. Absolute increases in public expenditure in education
will primarily come from increased levels of government resource mobilization.
3.     Intra-Setoral Resource AUocation: Within the annual public education budget
of the national government, total allocations for public elementary education will
progressively be increased each year in order to restore at the latest by the year 2001 the
peak 60% share of elementary education last achieved in 1987 (1995 baseline: 47%).
Thereafter this total share will be maintained over the longer term.
In order to achieve this targeted allocation within the sector, DECS will maintain a dialogue
with CHED and TESDA under the auspices of NEDA, DOF and DBM so that options for
achieving more efficient and equitable re-allocations of national govemment financing
between the basic education and tertiary education levels can be identified and
implemented.
4.     Alocafton Amonf Expenditwre Catetories: Withi the total annual budget for
pubiic elementary education sourced from national and local governments, allocations
among expenditure items wil seek, at least, to achieve progressive year to year incrcases in
real terms of the average annual MOOE per enrolled student (1994 baseline: estimated at
P125 per student per year). Furthermore, the future authorization, release and utilzation
of these increased MOOE per student will be progressively decentralized so that these
funds are managed directly at the level of the indidual schools by the year 1998 (1995
baseline: managed by the regional offices).
By using revised nonns for budgeting recurrent costs in the national budget and obtaining
increased local govemment contributions for elementary education according to proposed
policies on central-local cost sharing below, annual average real MOOE per student in the
future will be targeted towards raising the national average together with ensurng more
progressive school-to-school variations around the average.
S.      Centr-Local Cost ShwinR:  Within the total annual expenditures for public
elementary education sourced from national and local govemments, the average total share
of all local govenments nationwide wil be encouraged to further continue its increase
(baselines: 2% of total public expenditures in 1990; 7% in 1993; 9% in 1995), while
ensuring that variations among individual LGUs around the average become more
progressive in tenrs of the share of public education expenditures relative to total LGU
revenues.
The actal nationwide average share of all local governments in public financing for
elementary education in the future will emerge as the result of pursuing the following
specific initiatives:



-85 -                                Annex 7
a     Local rovernment financine  of schoolbud&nf:  Average shares of local
govemments in financing the costs of schoolbuilding in their localities will be targeted
to rapidly increase each year. All schoolbuilding construction will be fully financed
by all LGUs (with a few highly meritorious exceptions) by the year 1999, the first ful
year in the administration of local officials newly elected in 1998.
b.    School MOOE finanaew by local Eovernments:   Revenue rich local
govenmments such as cities, first and second class municipalities, and first and second
class provisions will be encouraged to increase their share in financing MOOE of
schools in their localities. This will allow DECS to reduce national funding for these
better off localities without adversely affecting education quality and accordingly
increase national funding for school MOOE in poorer localities with poorer LGUs.
a     Assirnmnwt of sdected school ewenrutre ims to LGUs:  Agreements
will be negotiated with LGUs that will identify specific public elementary education
expenditure items (e.g. repair and maintenance of schoolbuildings, portion of
textbook requrements beyond the nationally financed minimum, water and electricity
supply for schools, etc.) which could regularly be borne by the budgets of various
levels of local governments.
d     Seftine educaion-oriented pnorities in the use of SEF. Administratie
regulations will sought to establish a common set of priorities govening eligibility for
financing from Special Education Funds of the LGUs. This will ensure that this
mnandatory source of LGU financing for education wil be used first for those
expenditure items with the greatest contribution to education quality, before other less
cost-effective items.
OCriteria for sein.  local cost share tds:  The setting of targets in local
cost shares in public elementary education will be governed by explicit, observable
and well-defined crteria. These criteria will be applied fairly and evenly across all
LGUs. Exceptions to the application of the criteria wM be defined clearly and thir
basis established.   Targeted expenditure shaing between central and local
govenunents will be set using formula-based and objective criteria.
The criteria shall consider the following factors: 1) national govennment financing
allocation objectives; 2) levels of desired adequacy for each category of expenditure
to be financed, assessment of needs of localities relative to desired levels of adequacy
in provisions; financial capabilty of the local govermnents; and 4) consequent
wiliness to pay behaviors of autonomous local govemments. The fornula for
cost-sharing wmi be established, tested, and revised in several iterations subject to
negotiations with local govenmuents and assessment of financing outcomes.



- 86 -                               Annex 7
6.      Public-Private Cost SharinE:  Financing deemed adequate to meet the public
goals of public elementary education will primarily come from public sources, such as
national and local governments. Even as actual levels of public financing for public
elementary schools are being increased as defined by the above policies, such financing
levels may still be deemed insufficient by some parents and communities in terms of
satisfying their desired educational outcomes for their children. In response, households
and communities use private financing of elementary schooling through the folowing
practices: opting to enroll their children in private schools despite availability of places in
public schools; augmenting public school budgets by making donations and voluntary
contributions; substituting private payments for what should really be publicly financed
purchase of essential school inputs like own copies of textbooks and supplies of educational
materials; not using publicly funded schools nearby and privately spending instead to
transport their children to other public schools perceived to be of better quality.
Estimates indicate that private financing of elementary education account for as much as
36%  of total elementary education costs in 1994.  Some portion of these private
expenditures are legitimate and acceptable private financing models for meeting what are
essentially private choices.  But some portion of these household and community
expenditures may be undesirable barriers to equitable access to elementary education of
adequate quality. In particular, some private costs of providing or accessing public
elementary education may be too high relative to average incomes of the poorest
households and communities so that these advesely affect school participation and
completion of children from such households and communities.
Thus there is a need for policies to selectively reduce and more equitably re-distribute these
private costs of public education so that the poor and non-poor can all obtain elementary
education of adequate quality fully through public financing, and that, in addition, the non-
poor can opt to obtain better than adequate education by financing for themselves
supplementary prtivate expenditures cither through use of private schooling or by
augmenting the operating funds of their preferred public schools.
The following policies shall be pursued in this regard. Public and private costs in providing
adequate quality elementary education in public schools will be met by financing largely
through central and local government expenditures in accordance with  (a) below.
Additonal costs for obtaning better than adequate provisions for education in public
elementary schools as desired by local communmty consensus shall be financed by
supplementary funds derived through locally decided voluntary contributions in accordance
with (c) below. Elementary education through private schools shall remain an option for
those who prefer this alternative and can afford to pay its costs in accordance with (b)
below. Reducing the costs associated with the poorest households' uflization of public
elementary education, as distinct from the costs of makig available such education with
adequate quality, shall be an additional object of public policy as described in (d) below.



- 87 -                               Annex 7
a.    Reducine the demand for Private fnancine of oublic schogene. Total
public financing from national and local govemment sources shall be raised and
targeted to attain levels of provisions, even without any private contributions or
payments, sufficient to produce adequate public educational outcomes in all cases.
The levels of combined central and local public financing for each public elementary
school should be such that the poor can obtain adequate elementary education in
public schools close to them without having to pay for or contribute to the essential
inputs of schooling. This is the fundamental financing condition for realizing the goal
of universal free public elementary education. Satisfying this financing condition
should reduce that portion of the demand in schools for private contributions due to
situations where available public funds fall short of meeting the public policy goal of
adequate quality universal public elementary education.
b.    Meetine the demand for Private choices in educaion throueh oriw e
schools. But private demand for higher educational outcomes beyond the publicly
defined levels of adequacy shall be respected, as long as public financing shall not be
used for such purpose. Meeting such demand through use of private schools is one
acceptable option. Hence, exisfing policies which encourage expansion and use of
prtivate schools financed through private means shall be maintained. Deregulating
fees and improving the regulation of quality in such private elementary schools shall
also be continued.
c.    Alowinr locailv shared roals in education to be met throueh oulic
school&   In public schools, however, private demand for educational outcomes
beyond levels of adequacy set by public policy shall be selectively and carefuly met.
All available public financing should first be focused on meeting universal standards
of adequacy in public schools. Private goals in education that are localy shared may
also be met through public schools. Voluntary supplementaiy private financing of
public schools shall be the main source for meeting locally shared demands for
education quality beyond the established national standards. Parly for this purpose,
each community served by each pubiic school shall be encouraged to organize and
participate in the govemance and financing of their school.
Within locally accepted nonns and strictly according to locally defined consensus,
vohrntary prvate contnbutions to augnent the publicly financed operating budgets of
individual pubiic schools wmi be encouraged, subject to administrative regulation.
Such contributions should be mobilized only for the purpose of allowing individual
communities to secure and finance for themselves their commonly shared desires for
education provisions beyond nationally established levels of adequacy.  Local
comunmity contnbutions shal not be considered part of total public financing for
education, but shall be regarded, instead, as supplementary private financing of
schools to meet the community's own additional provisions in their own public
schools.



- 88-                                Annex 7
d     Reducinr the costs of school comnleton amon the Poor  In addition to
policies goveming the financing of making available to all elementay education
provisions of adequate quality, policies for reducing the private costs of elementary
school participation by the poorest shall also be developed.  The burden of
opportunity costs of child labor among the rural poor is particularly heavy in the last
3 to 4 grade levels of the child's elementary schooling. Despite adequate availability
of opportunities for completing elementary education, the school-aged children of the
poorest households may still not benefit from these provisions because the imrnediate
contribution of these children's labor to the current low incomes of the households
could effectivety discourage them from completing school, and ultimately reduce
their long term ability to contribute to future household incomes. In order to meet
this issue, experiments in public subsidies to poor households designed to encourage
them to keep their children in the intermediate grades shall be developed and
implemented during the School Years 1997 to 2000. Based on the results and
evaluation of these experiments, appropriate policies shall be formulated to reduce
the costs of elementary school completion for children of poorest households.
7.     School Focus of Public Educaion Finann.  Except for the essential costs
of education administration at central, regional and divisional levels to be largely bome by
the national government budget, all available public financing for public elementary
education, from national and local sources, wil be allocated, utiized, accounted for, and
monitored with consistent focus on their imnpact on schools, classroom processes and
situent outcomes.
Public on Education Administation
1.     School Focus of Educaton Adminisration:    The operations of public
elementary education will be progrevly re-engineered towards focusing on schools,
classoom processes, and student outcomes.  The emphasis shal increasingly be the
inplemented curriculum, rather than the intended cunicuhun. Administrative attention
shal be directed towards the folowing specific prionties: actual staff deployment for
teaching; on-hand availability of textbooks and instructional materials; prevalent teaching
practices in the classroom and as promoted through in-service teachers' traimng and
instnictional supervision in the field; and the concrete material conditions of leaning in
specific schools in terms of availability of classrooms, furiniture, and cquipment.
2.      Decentrizaton of Educaion Adunistration:  Decision-making authority on
resource allocation, pcronnel deployment, and instructional operations shall be
decentralized first to dision offices, then to districts and then to schools. Decentralization
to 26 provinces covered by  TEEP will be given top priority.



- 89 -                              Annex 7
Decentralization in the first 6 pilot divisions will be implemented in 1996; an additional 8
divisions in 1997, and another 12 divisions in 1998. Not later than School Year 1998-
1999, decentralization to all other divisions will be proceed.
Starfing in 1997, pilots in district and school level decentralization will also be started.
After evaluation of these pilots and determination of the appropriate policy and procedural
changes, expansion of the coverage of district and school level decentralization will be
undertaken in the divisions covered by TEEP by 1998 and 1999. Similar decentralization
in the non-TEEP divisions wil be undertaken thereafter.
3.      Decentr&aiz,aion of National Ed.cadon BIlt The allocation, release,
management and accounting of national government fumds for public elementary education
shall be decentralized. All central and national budget items for eventual use by division,
district and school operations shal be incorporated as part of the division's appropriations.
For the 1997 GAA, appropriate language will be sought that will authorize direct budgetary
releases to division offices with corresponding obligational and disbursement authorities
granted to division offices. Future budget allocations will be made increasingly location-
specific until all public elementary schools shall have become distinct decentraized
budgctary and administrative entities. Contributions of local governments shall be similarty
allocated, utilized and accounted to district and school levels.
4.      Devoltaon of Schoolhuildmr Construon: Consistent with provisions of the
Local Govemment Code of 1991, schoolbuilding construction shall be devolved to
municipal govemments. Inplementation of this policy shal be phased. Responsibility for
undertaking schoolbuilding construction projects wiEl be immediately devolved to municipal
governments. Financing of these projects wil be initally shared between central and local
governments until such time when local govenmuents shall fully finance them. In the fist
26 provinces covered by divisional decentralization, municipal govemments wil fuly
undertake schoolbuilding constriction with central-local sharing in the costs of such
construction in accordance with policies described in section 5 (a) on financing above.
5.      Protecfin, Public Schools from Non-Ins*udional Denwnds.   DECS and
local governments sh  agre to protect schools fro  extrancous demands of non-
instructional concems. The dvision offices shall be authonzed by DECS to review for
eventual elimination those current actmties, procedures and work loads not directly related
to instruction. The local govemments shall be similarly requested to reiew for cventual
elimination those activities involving teaches and students undertaken at localities which
senously distract them from the instructional tasks of schools.
6.     Svs&Maic Learinge in School Effecdveness:  The central, regional and
divmonal levels of DECS adninistration shall establsh mechanisms for experinenting with
administrative and pedagogical innovations for obtaining better and more widespread
student outcomes from public elementary schools under various conditions, with particular



-90-                                 Annex 7
emphasis on improving educational outcomes from small schools in rural areas. Financial
and personnel management policies shall be developed, tested and adopted for this
purpose. A policy and operations research program shall be established for simlar
concerns. A special fund for school improvements and innovations projects shal be
established and maintained to support various pilots, local initiaive and other
demonstration efforts. Learning from these efforts shall be systematically validated,
disseminated and institutionalized.
7.    Proi'i*E School Heads for Small Schools:  The current staffing nonns for
school heads shall be revised to permit the assignment of a full-time school head for small
rural schools. The revised policies shall allow for assignment of school heads to a cluster
of small schools, or the addition of teacher items in mulfigrade schools to free up a
teacher's time for instructional supervisior, or provision of increased MOOE to schools to
pay for principals supervising isolated small schools without heads.
Policies on Accountability to Stakeholders
i.      Nasional PoLcY OIlsht The Social Development Committee of the NEDA
Board shall oversee the adoption and implementation of these policies from the perspective
of the social sectors. The National Committee on Education for All shall be the forum for
coordinating elementary education initiatives within the broader context of improving basic
education. The Social Reform Council shall provide overall policy guidance in the
implementation of public elementary education programs as part of the Social Reform
Agenda.
2.      Devartmet Policy Directon:  The DECS Management Committee shal be
the primay locus for decision-making involving cross-cutting issues affecting public
clementary education. A TEEP Project Management Policy Committee within DECS shall
proide mtra-departmental adminisatve and technical guidance focused on the
implmentation of the project. Specific DECS officials designated as the TEEP Project
Director and the TEEP Project Manager shall manage the fornulation of policy proposals
and coordinate the implementation of approved policies relating to these issues.
3.      Professiond Educators Oversiht   An Advisory Committee of Ewmit
Edcators may be convened to serve as a mechamsm for mobilizing national and
intermational experts that can provide inter-disciplinary and visionary perspectives to the
broad sweep of policies and programs for improving public elementary education. This
group can serve as a techmcal bulwark and professional palar of support for carymg out
the education innovations and institutional changes being planned over the 7-year lfe of
TEEP.



- 91 -                               Annex 7
4.    Measurement of Impact and Communication of Measurements:          A wide
variety of measurements shall be employed to fuLly inform decision-makers at various
levels of the impact and results of the improvement process. Sample-based student
assessments supplementing the NEAT shall be undertaken to generate information for
analyzing student outcomes in relation to administrative and pedagogical efforts. A
division based educational management information system (E-MIS) shall be installed and
operated to generate regular school operations data which can be processcd for use in
decentralized management decision-making. Annual participatory technical audits shall be
organized and undertaken to provide qualitative information, case studies, process
observations and similar data to supplement E-MIS and student assessment analyses.
Routine DECS  financial land administrative  monitoring  shall also  add  intemal
organizational data relevant to measurement of output and impact. Special evaluation
studies, field assessment missions and other forms of episodic measurements shall also be
undertaken.  The data and analysis produced by these efforts shall be publicized,
disseminated. and discussed at various levels, in various settings, and involving a wide
range of stakeholders.
5.    Community ParFiciation and Oversht    For each individual school, a
community-based forum shall be established and supported to perform a participatory role
and an oversight function in school improvements. Wherever the local School Board is
appropriate, it will be used for this purpose. Where there are active organizations operating
in the community that have a lcgitimate interest in and concern for the public school in the
community, such organizations shall be inked with the division, district or school as
appropriate in order to facilitate their participation in school improvement. PTCAs are, of
course, another available mechanism for the same purpose.
6.    Local Government Pari4oation and Oversieht    DECS shall enter into
agreements with LGUs which, among others, shall provide for a free flow of information
about public clementary education operations to the appropriate LGU bodies. Quarterly
financial and performance reports shall be prepared by divisions to inform LGUs about the
progress of school improvement.  The agreernents shall also define the substantive
involvement of LGUs in decision-malig and implementation affecting the local education
of children of their residents. This involvement shall not only cover those aspects for
which local government financing is being sought, but should also include all areas where
LGU expertise and knowledge could help produce better results.
7.    Accoumine. Andidinr and Fwnancl Rtworti.n:    Resources flowing into
divisions and schools that come from national government, local governments and
community contributions shall be properly accounted and recorded. Financial audits by
COA shall be routinely performed. Financial reports on all transactions shall be prepared
and submitted to pertinent authorities.



- 92 -                             Annex 7
Initial Application of these Policies
The above policies shall form the basic policy and institutional framework of the Third
Elementary Education Project. Some of these policies are essential pre-conditions for
effective implementation of TEEP; others are logical consequences of the technical work to
be undertaken under TEEP.
Part of the resources provided by TEEP shall be needed to build capacity and create
conditions for fully implementing the above policies. But the bulk of TEEP resources can
only be fully mobilized and optimally utiized when the above policies are firmly in place.
In this sense, these policies and TEEP are organically linked. Thus approval of the TEEP
investment proposal should be accompanied by corresponding approval of these proposed
policies.
The Department of Education, Culture and Sports seeks the approval of the Social
Development Committee of the above policies and the favorable endorsement of the same
to the Board of the National Economic Development Authority. Upon approval by the
government, these policies shall guide the coordination work with all agencies, including
the local governments. These policies shall also be communicated to the two main sources
of foreign financing of the TEEP, namely OECF and IBRD, as well as to other interested
parties involved in elementary education such as UNICEF, AUSAI), CIDA, JICA, and
local academic institutions assisting in education policy development.
sdc.doc/Vu gi5



THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CHART
Staemg Cormeitee                                                                                               Gm~~~~~~~~~~~~~4, ofS  Enuwat E d,a~
Advice o     Advie                                                                                                              .
TEEP Rog Dk1rdar                   TEEP  1kac'e O1m
.                                                      .    , t                        P*d_ C_poject_ ci
Sado                                                                          T       me.   _                                                                                                                                                 (t,*
ct DEDP
h.0mtbiPISU
\ OECS-RODECS  L    |    C    | SuppS b P11DSd o                                                                                                      DD
\E E P  Dfr                     N E A P     N E R T O   B O Pi T A F     L C      S   BE E  u   m    of    EP enary     E b
BSE      "au of Secondary Edwcabon
CCD    CounEd on Countrywide Davalopont
CCPAP  Coordnaing Council fhr Phiippin Assonce Prmo
\  DEDP InnbUon               DEC oW  z            n         /       1                                           DMEM    Departent of Budgd and MaNgem nt
DE =Supanit=ta   _   DECS-D           DECS-W   Support to DO Sup and Spec          DECS   Dparmd of Edcon Cutr and Sports
I  dent              Specieas     _ Consuunt    Capacity Buiktg                    DILG    Departen of Intnior end Local Govemmntn
ODPWH  Department of PulicAWiork and Higwys
EDPITA Educatonal Developrent Projects Imnwram Aon Took Foame
NEAP   Natonai Acadewm  of VtiW Phitppi"s
|dcet ic.  !                 NEDA   Naiona Econore Developmnt Autoity                                  D
NTRC   Natoonal Educational Teein end Researcit Can~                    x
PBSP   Phiippin Busies for Socia Progress 
RVAICTWmZ-   ;                                                                                                                      ,.,nams



- 94 -                                  Annex 9
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
DEDP Criteria and Guidelines
I. Criteria for Appraisal. Supporting Evidence (to be included in the proposal)
Focus   on   quality  *  Proposed inputs are designed to improve pupil learning and
improvements             retention and present rationales on how this should happen
*  Baseline data on learning levels are, or will be, available
*  Where necessary, there are specific strategies for special groups
such as indigenous people
*  Either (i) proposed inputs are prioritized in terms of expected
relative effectiveness, or (ii) it is demonstrated how they will work
together to produce expected outcomes
Focus on access       *  Proposed inputs are designed to improve both participation and
cohort survival rates.
*  Baseline data are provided for the division.
Decentralization      *  Division's Education Development Program (DEDP) includes a
strategy for decentralization of key tasks based on (i) DECS overall
policy for decentralization, deconcentration and devolution, and
(ii) a diagnosis of its current capacities.
-  Action plans and budgets are developed at the division level and
include investments designed to improve Division's managerial
capacities.
-  These action plans include adequate resources (in terms of
administrative/managerial authority, training, and equipment).
Improved delivery of *  Acceptable plans for development of enhanced capacity for textbook
pedagogical services     availability development, teacher and staff training, student learning
assessment, and program evaluation within TEEP overall
framework.
Financial Feasibility    *  Program resources involve an increment over historic allocations for
elementary education.
*  Relevant annual program costs are reflected in annual Division Plan
and LGU budgets.
*  Annual recurrent costs of the investment are shown to be sustainable
at the end of the project.
Technical Feasibility    *  Strategies are based on empirical evidence or experience in the
Philippines (preferably) or elsewhere.
Managerial Feasibility   *  Implementation will be done by an agency (e.g., Division Office)
empowered to make financial, staffing and program design decisions
*  DEDP must include strategy, based on Manning Study, to optimize
teacher use.
Participatory Planning   *  DEDPs have been prepared with participation of LGUs (provincial,
municipal, barangay), DECS personnel at division, district and
school level plans, and parents.



- 95-                                 Annex9
Resettlement        *  DEDP must explain how resettlement cases will be handled.
Overall Planning    *  Must follow TEEP guidelines.
II. The Technical Volume Contains the Following Criteria:
1.    Criteria for District prioritization in the six Pilot Provinces
2.    Criteria for schools prioritization in each District
3.    Criteria in defining Priorities and Indicators for Evaluation and Monitoring of Civil Works
4.    Criteria for selecting TEIs
5.    Criteria for selecting NGOs
6.    Criteria for competition under the SIIF
III. TEEP Guidelines Outline
1.    Program Goals, Objectives and Policies
2.    Program Management, including Project Implementation Network and Support Structure
(PINS) and Project Implementation Support Unit (PISU)
3.    Program Guidelines for Preparation and appraisal of DEDPs, including Annual Work Plan
and Budget Process
4.    Project Financing, Accounting and Fund Disbursement
5.    EMIS and M&E, Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
6.    International Cooperation Programs
7.    Procurement Rules and Procedures governing Goods, Services and Works
8.    Schoolbuilding Program including Resettlement
9.    Implementation of Pedagogical Decentralization including INSET and SBM
10.   School Improvement and Innovations Fund (SIIF)
11.   Textbooks and Instructional Materials
12.   Research and Assessment - Criteria for outsourcing
13.   IEC



-  96 -                Annex 10
ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A .V_             A    |gI
ao~~~~~~~~~
!  i 4  L  j   | 1Il X,3|||I        
I        i~~~~I



- 97 -                                        Annex 1
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: Decentralized Responsibilities
11_______ 11  11_____ _   D=       Local
FunctionslActivities        DECS    Regional DF Iivision   District   Schools   Gov't Units
]    -  .  -   -            .       [ .         .        | ~~~~~~~Mgiut.    (LGUs)
*   Policy Formulation and Legal
*   Action                           *
*  Budget Allocation Decisions       *          *          *          .         .
*   Recruitment and Deployment of
Teachers                                                          *
*   Recruitment and Deployment of
Principals/Head Teachers and
Supervisors                                            *
*   Teacher Salaries                  *          *         *
In-Service Training
> Principals                     *          *          *
> Supervisors                    *          *
> Non-Teaching Personnel         *          *          *
=> Allocation of Funds for
INSET                         *          *
*   Procurement of Textbooks         *
*  Procurement of Additional
Instructional Materials                     *          *
*   Procurement of other Supplies    *          *                               *
*   Curriculum Development
Materials                        *
*   Student Assessment/Testing       *          *          *          *         *
*  Education Management of
Information System (EMIS)        *          *          *          *         *
*  Education Projects/Program
Management                                             *
*   School Building Program                                                                                  . !;
r Allocation of Funds             *          *          *         *          .
=' Construction and
Rehabilitation                           *          *                *
=, Maintenance and Repair                               *         *          *           0
| > Planning for New Schools      *          *               *               .                  l
Note:    * Refers to present situation
* Refers to proposed changes



PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 11.1: EXAMPLES OF SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT AND INNOVATION FACILITY (SIIF) PILOTS
TITLE                OBJECTIVE                          PURPOSE                           TARGET         INSTRUMENT
> School Empowerment        Improving learning   Assess the relative cost-effectiveness of different  400 randomly  National window
school-level managerial arrangements;           selected schools
test different areas of delegation of authority.
=> School Improvement Plans  Improving learning    Demonstrate to what extent and under what     marginalized     Divisional
conditions school-based planning for quality    schools.          window
improves pupils' achievements in the Philippines.
=> Indigenization of Material  Improving learning    Determine the best modalities for ensuring that ethnic  TEEP areas with a  National window,
and Curriculum                                minority children have access to relevant instruction.  critical mass of    because of cost
minority children   and potential
impact
= Early Childhood           Improving learning    As an input into ECD project under preparation, to  About 400 units in  Divisional  co
Development                                  test the effectiveness and replicability of various  the most      window, in liaison
institutional arrangements.                     disadvantaged     with PISU and the
communities       ECD project
preparation team
> Special, demand-side      Increasing          Determining cost-effective prototype investment and  the most      Divisional
programs                 completion rates    institutional packages, for instance in health,  disadvantaged     window, in liaison
nutrition, modular instructional programs for children  districts in each    with PISU for
of migrant workers or nomadic tribes, flexible school  TEEP province    cross-fertilization
calendar or schedules, to address demand-side issues
raised in the DEDPs.
> Vouchers                  Increasing          Determine: (a) the relative effectiveness and   about 400         National window,
completion rates   feasibility of different demand-side financing   extremely poor    in liaison with the
mechanisms; and (b) the optimum subsidy level to    communities,  Presidential
keep poor children in school.                  randomly selected  Commission to      D
Fight Poverty



-99-                                   Ann   1 
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEEP STRATEGY FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
1.    Background. There are about 60 cultural minority groups in the Philippines. These groups,
totaling about 6 million individuals, are distributed around Northern and Central Luzon, Mindoro,
Western Mindanao and Sulu islands. The groups TEEP is most likely to affect are: (a) in the North, the
Apayao, Bontoc, Ibaloy, Ifugao, Kalinga, Kankanan and Tingguian; (b) in Visayas, the Negritos; and
(c) in the South, the Manobos, Tasaday, Manaraw, Yakan and Tausug. The Project file contains
information on each of these groups. During the pilot phase, the two groups whose specific problems
were raised and addressed in the DEDPs are the Ifugaos (most of Ifugao Province population) and the
Manobos (20 percent of Agusan del Sur). For practical purposes, the issues affecting the children of
plantation ("sacada") migrant workers are being treated under the same heading.
2.    Objectives. The main objective of the TEEP Strategy for indigeneous people is to ensure that
tribal minority groups in the provinces covered by the project receive culturally appropriate benefits.
This will be achieved through the informed participation of the people concerned in the preparation,
implementation, supervision and monitoring of project activities.
3.    In the context of the TEEP, the objective is to improve learning achievements, elementary school
completion rates and access to culturally appropriate quality elementary education for ethnic minority
communities.
4.    Strategy. The project strategy is based on the informed participation of the beneficiary
communities through:
(a)   Information of potential stakeholders in the minority communities (parents, community
leaders, teachers) of TEEP's objectives, approaches and implementation modalities to
gain their active involvement. As for all other aspects of the DEDPs, community
mobilization methods will be used.
(b)    Consultation and participatory planning involving the local community (Parent Teacher
Associations and School Management Advisory Committees) in the planning of civil
works, in the identification of their perceived educational needs including provisions for
indigenization of the curriculum and teaching materials, and in the assessment of project
performance in meeting these needs.
(c)    Advice/assistance to local school management by School Management Advisory
Committee appointed/elected by Parent Teacher Associations.
(d)    Annual participatory performance audits based on beneficiary assessment techniques
will provide a feed-back mechanism to adjust project plans and implementation through
identification of the stakeholder's perception of problems and acceptable solutions to
these.



- 100 -                                Annex I1
5.    To achieve this level of participation, the project's School Improvement and Innovation Facility
(SIIF) will de facto target resources to "marginalized" schools, many of which are likely to be in
minority areas, to engage the involved communities in diagnosing their problems and in defining and
implementing their own improvement plans.
6.    Components and Activities. Activities relevant to ethnic minority communities which can be
supported by SIIF funds are:
*  School empowerment where School Management Advisory Committees and PTAs are
supported to establish a capacity to advise local school affairs.
*  School improvement plans which will include experiments with a more flexible approach to
school attendance, so that it is adapted to the possibilities and constraints imposed by local
seasonal agricultural calendars and work requirements.
*  Indigenization of educational materials and curriculum  through the (i) development/
adaptation of learning materials to make them relevant in a local cultural context; (ii) active
recruitment/training of indigenous people as teachers; (iii) training of teachers to be
culturally sensitive to handle classes with indigenous pupils.
*  Special poverty-oriented demand-side programs which will make education more affordable
to the poorest among IP and improve the readiness of poor indigenous children for school.
The program consist of small scholarships to cover direct and indirect schooling costs, and
the development of a model for school health and nutrition programs.
-  Early Childhood Development (ECD) programs to increase readiness for school and
teachability, including the transition from the vernacular to the official language of
instruction.
7.    In addition to the above, a special SIIF component of the TEEP will address the needs of
nomadic and migrant children by building on the experience of both the UNICEF-supported program of
multigrade schools and the ADB-funded Informal Education Project, or other alternative strategies. This
activity will experiment with multilevel, modular teaching materials that would be made available in
existing formal or non-formal education facilities operating along flexible schedules. Pupils could pick
up the curriculum where they had left it, wherever the agricultural or seasonal cycle would allow them to
resume studying. This activity will be preceded by a comprehensive stock-taking exercise because of the
large body of previous experiments along these lines which have never been institutionalized, and
because of potential economies of scale with other activities. For this reason, this component will at best
start in PY2 or PY3.
8.    The impact of the activities listed above are expected to be (i) improved learning achievement;
(ii) higher completion rates; and (iii) expanded access to quality education for indigenous people.
9.    Approach. Preparation of the DEDPs will continue to involve sociologists to ensure that the
rights and interests of indigenous people are fully taken into account. Representatives of ethnic groups
will be fully integrated in the participatory planning and evaluation activities, especially the annual
performance audit to be conducted with NGOs and the Beneficiary Assessment which will precede the
mid-term review (2000). The PISU contact person for each province will ensure that the National
Authorities concerned (such as the Office for Northern Cultural Communities or the Office of Muslim



- 101 -                                  Anmex I l
Affairs, full list in the Project File) are kept informed of DEDP activities and that these comply with
national policies. In appraising/reviewing DEDP proposals affecting minorities, PISU will use the
following criteria: (a) interest on the part of the group concerned; (b) potential impact, based on the
numbers affected; (c) transferability, to achieve economies of scale; (d) availability (of materials,
courses...); and (e) previous involvement of other agencies.
10.    Monitoring. Each of the activities listed above as well as the participatory approach will be
monitored as part of the provincial level DEDPs through:
*  Annual participatory performance audits which include beneficiary assessment techniques to
identify the perception of problems by stakeholders.
*  Collection of disaggregated monitoring data on minorities regarding the relevant Project
Performance Indicators (see Annex 5).



- 102 -                               Annex 12
PMLIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAM
1.     Planning. As part of DEDP preparation, new classroom needs will be estimated based
on: (i) enrollment projections reflecting Grade 1 intake, demographic trends and objectives for
repetition and drop out; (ii) improved ratio pupils/classroom resulting inter alia related inter alia
from the expansion of multigrade teaching; and (iii) existing classroom after deduction of
dilapidated, non repairable buildings. The location of new classrooms/schools will be based on
actual needs as determined by population density and distance criteria specified in the
Guidelines. This municipal school mapping is also to be conducted during DEDP preparation
and involve interested stakeholders as Municipalities, National Statistical Office provincial
representatives, PTA's representatives and DO-PISU civil-work cell staff.
2.     Devolution of SBP implementation. Under TEEP, the Municipalities (MLGUs) will
implement the school building program (SBP) within their respective territory, through their
respective Municipal Engineering Offices (MEO). This devolution presents several advantages:
(i) physical proximity and closer monitoring, leading to better quality of work; (ii) increased
utilization of local community labor, generating lower costs, heightened community ownership
and greater commitment to maintenance; (iii) better integration of municipal investment
programs across sectors; and (iii) more active Municipal support for education.  All
Municipalities have a Municipal Engineering Office staffed with at least 2 engineers, technically
competent to monitor a municipal SBP. The Municipal commitments to implement the SBP
within their respective area will be embodied in the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) to be
signed between Mayors and Superintendent and annexed to each DEDP. A model DECS-LGUs
MOA was agreed during negotiation.
3.     Municipal cost sharing. Since the LGUs' share in the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA)
will increase from 35 to 40 percent in 1997, the GoP introduces through TEEP a cost-sharing
between the Central and the Local Governments (the Municipalities) for school construction.
This policy, in line with the provisions of the Local Government Code (LGC), will increase the
responsibility and accountability of the Municipalities in the SBP, and will help directing
additional new municipal resources to education. In the short run, the GoP/Municipal LGU cost-
sharing policy for the SBP will only apply to the 26 TEEP Provinces. The LGU contribution
will range between 10-30 percent of construction costs, with an average of 25 percent . The
Memorandum of Agreement to be signed between Mayors and Superintendent and annexed to
the DEDPs will reflect these provisions.
4.     Summary of financing arrangements. The following financing arrangements between
GoP, OECF and IBRD will apply to the SBP: (i) the total financing needs for the SBP will be
During this period the Municipalities of non-TEEP Provinces will not contribute to the cost of their SBP.
Therefore, for equity reasons, TEEP Municipal LGUs will only cost-share the fraction of the SBP considered to
be additional to the regular program that they should receive without TEEP, e.g., 50 per cent of the proposed
SBP. For these 50 per cent, DECS, DoF and NEDA agree that the Municipal share will average 50 per cent of
total construction costs. For simplicity's sake, the Municipal contribution (= 50 per cent of 50 per cent of the
SBP cost) will be defined as 25 per cent of the total cost of the SBP.



- 103 -                            Annex 12
shared between the Philippines Central and Municipal Local Governments for 50 per cent, and
the donors (IBRD and OECF) for the remaining 50 per cent; (ii) the two donors will support the
program in equal parts, meaning each of them will support 25 per cent of the total program cost;
(iii) the LGUs will contribute a total of 25 per cent on average, (see para above) of the total
program cost, leaving 25 per cent on average to the GoP. The two donors will not co-finance the
same buildings, but will intervene in distinct provinces, so that in their respective area, their
respective financial contribution will apply to 50 percent of construction costs. The distribution
of the Provinces between WB and OECF is specified in the TEEP Guidelines.
5.    Implementation arrangements. Implementation of the SBP by the Municipalities will
follow one of four models, ranked by decreasing order of preference: (a) contract between the
Municipality and a civil-work contractor; (b) contract between the Municipality and a local
community covering all aspects of implementation, including materials purchase;
(c) combination of site-material supply by the Municipality and labor supply by the community
(Pakyaw); and (d) Force Account. The appropriate solution will be selected during DEDP
preparation based on pre-agreed criteria described in the TEEP Guidelines.
6.    Community participation. Options b) and c) can potentially maximize community
participation in construction work, with a wide range of benefits, including: (i) generation of
local employment and economic benefits; (ii) higher quality and lower construction costs;
(iii) enhanced likelihood of long term community commitment to the school, including better
building maintenance (iv) enhanced community capacity and skills, and (iv) on the part of the
parents, increased sense of ownership and, consequently, project sustainability.
7.    School building design and cost. During Project preparation, DECS-CO prepared (a) a
limited set of 4 different architectural models allowing better adaptation to the wide range of
provincial physical conditions (multi-stories for urban or mountainous sites, multigrade teaching
adapted design, and adapted window pattern to local climate constraints); and (b) a formula for
unit cost estimation which takes into account the distance over which construction materials have
to be transported. DECS-CO will disseminate the standardized models and the provincial
average unit cost to all TEEP DOs. The selection of the architectural model as well as of the
implementation arrangements (para 4) are part of DEDP preparation and will be discussed
among the stakeholders during that process. They will both be specified in the DEDP document
as well as in the MOA to be signed between the concerned Municipalities and DECS DO and
annexed to the DEDP. Data for all school building management arrangements will be entered in
the MIS in order to monitor, both at DO and CO levels, the completion schedule, efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of each operation under the SBP. Architectural Models and Unit Cost
Formula are in the Guidelines.
8.    Procurement procedures. There will be two different procurement procedures
corresponding to the implementation arrangements described in para. 4: (a) Contracts with
contractors and site-materials suppliers will follow simplified procedures, similar to WB
definition of national shopping, applying government procedures by comparing at least three
price quotations obtained through local advertising managed by the MLGUs through their
municipal PBAC according to the provisions of the LGC, with representatives of the beneficiary
communities and schools participating in the discussions of the PBAC; (b) Contracts with
communities based on pre-agreed unit costs, defined in the DEDP and below the cost ceiling set
by DECS-CO. Detailed procedures and Standardized bidding documents contracts between the
Municipalities and the contractors/suppliers /communities, are provided in the TEEP Guidelines.



- 104 -                            Annex 12
9.    Flow of funds. GoP, WB and OECF funds for the SBP will be channeled to the MLGUs
through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) as follows: (a) GoP funds - each year MDF
will receive from GAA GoP's annual contribution to the SBP -- equal to 25 per cent of the total
annual SBP cost for the 26 TEEP Provinces -- and transfer to all the TEEP LGU treasurers the
GoP contribution to their Municipal SBP as specified in the corresponding DEDP and related
MOA; (b) WB or OECF funds - MDF will open one Special Account (SA) for each of these
funds with an Authorized Allocation (AA) of US$3 million; WB and OECF will make an initial
deposit of US$1.5 million. Details on the flow of funds are provided in the Guidelines. Specific
arrangements governing the channeling of GAA funds to MDF for the SBP are stipulated in the
three MOAs signed between DECS and DBM, DECS and DoF and DECS and DPWH.
10.   Payment of the works. The MLGUs will pay the contractor/supplier/community group,
against invoices based on their contracts. Monitoring of the works will be the responsibility of
the Municipal Engineering Office (MEO). Evidence of progress will be supported by adequate
documentation certified by the MEO and countersigned by the Principal or his representative.
Evidence of final completion would include acceptance of the new classroom by DECS
representative (School Principal or District Supervisor). Details of the payment procedure and
models of documents certifying the progress or completion of work are provided in the
Guidelines.
11.   Reimbursement of the Municipalities. As the MLGUs will receive in advance the GoP
share of the SBP cost (25 per cent on average) and contribute another 25 percent (the total of
GoP and MLGU contribution always adding up to 50 per cent), they will be reimbursed by the
Central Government for the remaining 50 per cent of their SBP expenditures. Reimbursement
will be done by MDF from the relevant WB or OECF Special Account, against SOEs certified by
COA. Model SOEs are provided in the Guidelines.
12.   Replenishment of MDF's Sas. On a monthly basis, MDF will transmit to DECS-CO the
aggregated SOE summaries for replenishment by IBRD and OECF of 50 percent of SBP costs.
PISU-CO will review and transmit the summaries to IBRD and OECF according to the agreed
distribution of TEEP provinces between them. IBRD and OECF will directly replenish each of
the relevant MDF's SA for the corresponding amount. Details on the arrangements for the
operation of MDF's SA are provided in the MOA signed between DECS and DoF.
13.   Accounting and auditing. MLGUs will send to MDF SOEs already certified by the local
Commission of Audits (COA) who will provide a full-time auditor for TEEP SBP. Every month,
the national COA will conduct a post-audit of the SBP. Should COA determine that these
standards have not been complied with, the corresponding amounts will be automatically
deducted from the next invoice submitted by the concerned Municipality.
14.   Transparency. The entire process -- i.e. inputs, procedures and outputs -- of the school
building program will be monitored closely by the DO's PISU/civil-works cell against
performance indicators defined in the DEDP and included in the MIS. Data on inputs, procedures
and outputs will be analyzed through special features of the MIS and results will be disseminated
to all stakeholders through the Advocacy campaign. Procedures to ensure transparency are
described in the TEEP Guidelines.



- 105 -                                                   Annex 12
Divisional Elementary Education Plan
FLOW OF FUNDS FOR SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAM AND OTHER EXPENDITURE
MDF Optlon
Availability of Funds at Project start
Levels               DECS                         LGUs                Private                      National               Donors
and              Contractor                    Finances
MDF                                            and Banks
DEM releases Irst year GOP counterpart for TEEP's SBP (25% of total annual const cost)
GAA,OEC
DBM releases                               |3WBor OC
1 rst year                              T releases SA initial
TEEP           Central                  authorized
Informs MDF                                     national          Bank                     deposit
of approved                                   counterpart         (BSP)           .
DEDP SBP                                          for all                          B transfers
for                                           expencliture                         A mRial
action                                       except SBP                            uthorized
DECS CO  MDF  _                                 DECS-CO
National                                                                                              Ace                     DECS-00
Level                                             AGDB                                               AGDB                     Transfers
WB or                    1 rst year
Implement                                                                        OECF           DECS    GOP
Sup Unit                                                                      DECS SA   9    CO          counterpart
Trans-   funding to
6B                                                                                     fers      individual
DECS-CO instructs AGDB to transfer                                                      90-day   DEDP
GOP counterpart except SBP               MDF                                            day       for all
and WB/OECF 90 day advance              Transfers                                       WB or   expenditure
to AGDB provincial branch                advance                                        OECF    except SBP
based on approved DEDP                   payment                                        advan-
equal to 25%                                   ce |    ED  i
Provincial                                                           of Municipal                                    all expen
Divisional                                                           SBP const cost            AGDB Prov Branch    diture
Level                                                                from GOP                                     -exoept SBP
counterparty
to each                 gs       P   
Municipalfty  
Municipal                                         MLGU
Level                                            Treasurer
Barangay
School
Level   |cPal                                 H



- 106 -                                                      Annex 12
Divisional Elementary Education Plan
SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAM
MDF Opion
Payment of Civil Works
Levels            DECS                          LGUs                  Private             Commission            National                Donors
and                Contractor              of Audit           Finances
MDF                                                           and Banks
Central
Bank
DECS CO             IMDF                                                             ITEEPI
National                                          Acc                                                              Asc
Level                                            AGDB                                                             AGDB
roeat                     WB or                                                            WB or
Implement                 OECF                                                             OECF
Su a; nit                   MDF SA                                                         [ SA
MDF
Reports                    MLGU         Reimburses
status                 transmits       MLGU from SA
through                   to MDF        50 % of total
MIS_                    SOEs         oonst costGO
F, n O             certified                                                                  DEDP
Provincial                            by COAProinal
Divisional       DECS DO           for reimbur                                                 COA          AGDB Prov Branch
Level                                 sement           MLGU transmits                          Audit                  or
T  f  | to COA, SOEs                  LJCOA           |   OECF |
for certification                         tnsmits    |    PA
|  |MLGU transmits     |                                         | to MLGU
to DECS DO                                                         o l  certed
copies of SOEs    7 l          MLGU pays                              SOEs
X  l             Ltl - 6E cntract 100    Suppiler|
Municipal                                        MLGU                        or
Level                        MLGU 
Controls    MLGU  4                     Contractor Issues bills of
Reports |     works are|   Pays  |          |payment (a)
status |    completed |contract| 
through  |and materials| forwrk  |           Communfty
MIS        delivered   (100)             1ss  bills of
|i1             |                         |amnt (a)
School~       Principal  |     |         |Barangay| 
School                                  
Level      Accepts 3
the workr.I                    |       
and (at the  ||                 || PC  
end of the                      
process)                |             _
the building
u   t latinfom          b
(a) including oertMfcation of works completlon by Municipal Engineer Offce and aoceptbnoa of the Building by School Principal



- 107 -                                                Annex 12
Divisional Elementary Education Plan
SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAM
MDF Opton
WB Relmbursement Diagram
Levels            DECS                        LGUs                 Private            Commission           National              Donors
and               Contractor             of Audit          Finances
MDF                                                        and Banks
MDF
Submits nonthly                   WB or OECF reimburses 50 % of const costs      or
SOE summary
to WB or OECF
with request for           CB tranfers reimbursement
reimbursement                  of 50% of const costs    Central
of 50 % of
constructon costs
together with
MDF               COAs report
transmits
-             ~~~~~prOgreaf    _ 
National                          report
Level                           to DECS
AGDB                                                                  AGDB
PMipea                       WB or                 o                                      WB or
Implement.                   OECF    _OECF
91lp IJn II~~~DFSA                                                                   SAe 
GOP
Provincial                                    L
Divisional       DAGB Prov Branch
Level                                                                                                        W
rSupplier               Muncipal
Municipal                                   Mukpiy|                   or    |         | COA 
Level                                                           |Contractor |         | Audit |
||Barangay| 
School                     I              II 
Level         |Picpl|t
Lma 
(e) incluiding certification of workBe completion by Municipal Engineer Offie end ecoeptance of the Building by School Principal



- 108 -                               Annex 13
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Objectives and Strategy
1.    Bank Inputs. TEEP's supervision plan aims to (a) ensure timely and effective implementation
of the various programs and disbursements; (b) build the capacity of DECS at the central and divisional
levels to supervise and evaluate elementary education sub-projects; (c) strengthen collaboration among
concerned donors.
2.    Because capacity-building is at the core of TEEP, it is proposed that responsibility for
supervision be increasingly shifted to the Resident Mission. This will allow (a) formal and on the job
training of PISU staff and consultants in supervision techniques; and (b) close monitoring of
implementation, procurement and disbursement through quarterly field missions (two with, an two
without HQ participation; will decline to two by PY3) and close contact with the PISU, DoF's CCPAP
and NEDA's Project Monitoring Staff.
3.    At the moment, donors for the project are OECF and the Bank.  AusAID, CIDA,
UNDP/UNICEF, and (subject to confirmation) the Irish Government also support TEEP. The donors
will have quarterly meetings with the PISU. OECF and the Bank will conduct joint supervision missions
initially twice a year, and at least once a year after PY3, and will exchange supervision reports. The
other donors will be invited to join in once a year. Supervision will be thematic and will include, in
addition to the usual measures of successful implementation--procurement and disbursement--then ten
indicators presented in Annex 6 and qualitative aspects such as classroom processes, the use of
textbooks, and LGU/community participation. The supervision work will be increasingly provided by
the RM, with HQ staff and consultants as needed. The annual GoP/Donor reviews will be held by March
31 and September 30 of each year (specify date) to match GoP's budget cycle.
4.    During PYI, supervision will concentrate on capacity-building in supervision techniques and on
project launch activities in the six pilot provinces. Beginning in PY2, it will focus on PISU's
management and supervision capacity of active DEDPs, spot-checks of Divisional, District and school-
based implementation activities, and launching activities for the following batches of provinces.
Staffing for Bank Inputs
5.    The following basic staffing arrangement is proposed:
Task Manager in HQ, to provide overall guidance;
Co-TM in the RM for day-to-day management and
procurement/disbursement/auditing supervision
Local Support Consultants
Bank Staff and International Consultants, initially twice a year, to decline
to once a year once the project is fully on track (PY3).
Over time, Task Management will shift to the Resident Mission, with support from HQ. The
specialization of the consultants will be determined by the nature of the problems identified during



- 109 -                               Annex 13
implementation. Specialized expertise will be brought to bear when needed outside the formal mission
structure.
GoP Inputs
6.    Annual work plans and budgets (AWPB) will be prepared by each DO within the context of its
approved DEDP, and for each capacity-building (sub)component. These plans will be reviewed by the
PISU, which will make a recommendation for approval by the TEEP Managing Council. The sum of all
the approved AWPBs will constitute the overall annual project plan.
7.    Quarterly progress reports (February 28, May 31, August 31 and November 30) will be
submitted by the PISU to the donors in a format agreed during appraisal. The reports will include:
Narrative Report
(a)    a concise narrative section describing (i) activities undertaken under the annual work
plan (AWP) since the last reporting period; (ii) activities initiated under the APW; and
(iii) additional, unplanned activities;
(b)    major achievements;
(c)    problems encountered and solutions proposed;
(d)    activities planned for the next reporting period: (i) as per the AWP and (ii) other, with
explanation and rationale;
Statistical Report: a province by province one page summary tabular account built from eight reporting
forms: (i) DEDP Activity Report, including an update of basic data, inputs delivery, and qualitative
assessments (e.g., of learning) when available; (ii) DEDP Activities to be added/dropped in the AWP;
(iii) DEDP Fund Advance Report Summary; (iv) DEDP Expenditures by Activity; (v) DEDP expenditure
by Category; (vi) DEDP Procurement Actions; (vii) DEDP Additional Staff Appointrnents; (viii) DEDP
Claims of Reimbursement for eligible expenditures.
To the extent possible, the reports will use automatic reporting built-in in the MIS. The May and
November reports will be shorter. The February report which will form the basis for a budget review,
will include TEEP counterpart proposals.
8.    The September annual joint GoP/Donors performance review will be based, in addition to the
above, on the financial audit report for the preceding year and on a participatory performance audit
(PPA). The PPA is meant to complement the mechanical review of procurement and disbursements by a
more qualitative monitoring of processes at the grass-root level, especially in the following areas:
(a) capacity-building in the DOs; (b) implementation of the pilots (SIIF, school empowerment, ECD);
(c) school and classroom processes; and (d) effectiveness of the participation process. The PPA will be
contracted to a management consulting firm with sub-contracts to NGOs in the provinces. The staff of
the NGOs will receive training on TEEP and on the indicators to be monitored. They will conduct spot-
checks of about 5-10% of field activities and discuss with the communities at large (DECS, LGUs,
PTAs) their perceptions of TEEP implementation, problems identified and solutions proposed. Based on
the PPA, the donors will agree with DECS on which sites they themselves will visit during their missions
(success stories vs. problem cases).



- 110 -                                Annex 13
9.    The PISU will monitor and report on implementation progress, based on inputs from the relevant
entities and using the MIS. Additionally, it will organize provincial level project launch workshops and
implementation reviews. These reviews will be timed to support the joint GoP/Donors review.
10.   The PISU will coordinate arrangements for supervision missions, including the timely (one
month advance) dispatch of supporting documentation to the donors. Mission briefings upon arrival and
wrap-up meetings will be chaired by DECS Secretary and will include, for the annual review, high-level
representation from DoF, NEDA and DBM.
11.   The PISU will prepare and submit to IBRD, within six months of the Closing Date, a final
Implementation Completion Report and a plan for the future operation of the completed project.
Field Supervision
Indicative Dates                  Activity                             Staff Input (sw)
03/97             First Budget Review and PLW for Batch 1; review
of PISU capacity
Initiation of preparation for B2                           20
10/97             First Annual Review Batch I and preparation of B2;
1999 budget call; capacity-building                        20
03/98             Second Budget Review (1999); review BI AWPs
Appraisal of B2; review of PISU capacity
Second Annual Review;
10/98             Initiation of preparation for B3                           20
Review 2000 budget proposals
Visit to selected B I and B2 provinces                     20
03/99             Third Budget Review (2000); review Bl+B2 AWPs
Appraisal of B3
Review of PISU performance/
Review of capacity-building                                20
10/99             Third Annual Review; review 2001 budget call
Visit to selected B 1, B2 and B3 provinces                 20
03/00             Fourth Budget Review (2001); review Bl-B3 AWPs
Review Capacity-building
Prepare plan for mid-term review                           20
10/00             Mid-term Review (adjustments?)                             20
Fourth Annual review; 26 AWPs                              15
Site visits
03/01             Fifth Budget Review (2002)
Capacity-building
Site visits                                                15
10/01             Fifth Annual Review; 26 AWP                                 15
03/02             Sixth Budget Review (2003)                                  10
10/02             Sixth Annual Review                                        10
03/03             Seventh Budget Review (2004)                                10
10/03             Implementation Completion Mission                           10



- III -                                 Annx   13
12.   Joint Annual reviews will be held in October and the budget reviews, in March of each year. A
comprehensive mid-term review will be held in March 2000. It will determine whether there is a need to
restructure the project or modify the implementation targets of all or some components.
13.   Each mission will involve: (a) at least one week in the field (over the life of the project, each
province will be visited at least once); (b) the services of one education specialist and one
management/implementation specialist; (c) a review of procurement, civil works, financial statements
and disbursements, Loan covenants, technical assistance textbook delivery in remote schools and training
activities. The specialized skills to be added on the basis of needs will include: education finance,
educational decentralization, teacher training, MIS, textbooks and instructional materials, school-based
management, research and assessment.
14.   Initially all missions will be jointly conducted by the donors. The desirability and feasibility of
limiting the number ofjoint missions to one per year will be reviewed at the mid-term review (2000).



Republic of the Philippines
Third Elementary Education Project
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
1997     1998     1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      Total
A. Capacity Building at Nafli & Reg'nl Levels
National Management Strudure                                  1,913    1,827      1,633      653       368        143       143     6,681
Support to Policy/Decision Making                               699    1,484      1,768     1,780     1,768     1,515       629     9,643
Support to Decentralization                                    1,374    2,724     3,368     1,303     1,104       885       978    11,736
Subtotal Capacity Building at Narni & Reg'ni Levels             3,986    6,035      6,769     3,736     3,241     2,544     1,750    28,061
B. Elem. Educ. Improvement in 26 Prov.
Capacity Building at Provincial Level                         2,314    4,879      8,487     6,041     5,101     2,922     2,738    32,482
DEDPs                                                        40,689   71,598    76,656    69,642    65,333    59,402    37,879   421,198
Subtotal Elem. Educ. Improvement In 26 Prov.                   43,003   76,476    85,143    75,683    70,433    62,323    40,617   453,680
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            46,989   82,511    91,912    79,419    73,674    64,867    42,368   481,740
Physical Contingencies                                        4,476    7,757      8,396     7,358     6,966     6,235     4,098    45,285
Price Contingencies                                             592    3,138      5,874     7,195     8,694     9,478     7,405    42,376
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             52,056   93,406   106,182    93,972    89,334    80,579    53,871   569,402
'S



- 113 -                                            Annex 14
Republic of the Philipines
Third Elementary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Yearn -- Base Costs
(US$ 1000)
Base Cost
1997    1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      Total
1. Invesbtent Costo
A. Clvii works
1. School Buildings
Now Classrooms                                4,774   12,731    16,709    18,831    18,831    15,383     9,813    97,073
Classroom Rehabilitation                      1,179    3,536     5,187     5,187     5,187     4,244     1,650    26,169
Classroom repair                              1,100    3,929     5,737     5,737     5,737     4,558     1,729    28,527
School Facilities                               436    1,454     2,181     2,181     2,181     1,745       872    11,049
Subtotal School Buildings                       7,489   21,650    29,813    31,935    31,935    25,929    14,065   162,817
2. Other Buildings
Expansion of District Offices                     -    4,676         -         -         -         -         -     4,676
Construction of Divisional Offices                -    2,750                   -         -         -         -     2,750
Refurbishing Baguio Center                       43        -         -         -         -         -         -        43
Refurbishing Regional Offices                   94      314        393      236          -         -         -     1.037
Other civil works                                43        -         -         -         -         -         -        43
Subtotal Other Buildings                          181    7,741       393      236          -         -         -     8,550
SubtotalClvilwowks                                7,670   29,391    30,206    32,171    31,935    25,929    14,065   171,367
B. EqulpmentlFumiture
1. EquIpment
Standard School kits                          4,825   12,825     8,220      854        850       670       273    28,514
Customized School kts                         2,130    5,682     3,646       407       407       321       131    12,724
Standard Classroom kits                       5,898    2,770     1,764     1,615     1,454      971        424    14,896
Cusiomized Classroom kits                     2,570    1,287       824       739       668       454       200     6,742
Other Equipment                               2,750        -         -         -         -         -         -     2,750
Compulers                                      562       492      571          -         -         -       982     2,607
Vehicles                                        454      454       583         -         -         -         -     1,491
Photocopiers                                   148       157      236          -        10         -         -       551
Communication Devices                           169     366       294          -         -         -         -       828
Distance Education                                -      79       157       393        157         -         -       786
Subtotal EquIpnwnt                             19,506   24,111    16,296     4,004     3,546     2,415     2,012    71,889
2. Fumiture
Classrom fumiture                              835    2,387      2,139     1,238       972       354       283     8,208
Other Fumriure                                   54      51        71          -         -         -         -       176
Subtotal Fumiture                                888    2,438      2,211     1,238      972        354       283     8,384
Subtotal Equlpmntffumitur                        20,394   26,549    18,507     5,242     4,519     2,768     2,295    80,273
C. Textbooks and Inst Materials
1. Instructional mterial
Textbooks sast (reprint)                      5,694        -         -         -         -         -         -     5,694
Teacher Manual (reprint)                        370        -         -         -         -         -         -       370
Textbooks sets (published)                        -        -     5,903     4,896         -     6,026     4,984    21,809
Teacher Manuals (published)                       -        -      421        307                 438       311     1,478
Muftigrade sets                                   -    2,358         -         -     2,043         -         -     4,401
Printing Paper                                2,440        -         -         -         -         -         -     2,440
Subtotal Inatructional matrial                  8,503    2,358     6,325     5,203     2,043     6,464     5,295    36,191
2. Communication material                         136      251       425       425       425       468       223     2,352
Subtotal Textbooks and Inst MaItrials             8,639    2,609     6,749     5,627     2,468     6,932     5,518    38,542
0. Specialist Sevcs
Intrnatonl Specalists                            790      999       971       230        160       132       114     3,395
National Specialists                            2,122    4,150     6,085     3,852     2,664       724       431    20,028
NGO Assistanoe                                    187     437        812       812       812       625       375     4,061
Subtotal Specialist Services                      3,099    5,586     7,869     4,894     3,636     1,481       920    27,484
E. Training
INSET-Mat. ATrainors                            1,322    5,187     7,587     8,111     8,606     6,991     2,725    40,528
INSET-PerDiem&Trsnsport                         1,272    5,139     7,537     8,061     8,556     6,941     2,676    40,183
Other Per Diem and transportation                  82      37        49          -         -         -         -       167
OtherMaterieIsandTrainors                          94      44         59         -         -         -         -       198
Workshops                                         264     705      1,275      791       838        551       429     4,854
Subtotal Traning                                  3,035   11,113    16,507    16,962    18,000    14,483     5,831    85,929
F. SpecIal Programs & Grant
SIIF National  rKndow                            314      629       629       629       629        629       314     3,772
SIIF Provkidl Wlndow                                -     670      1,826     1,102         -         -         -     3,598
Demand side Programs                              104     242       450       450       450        346       207     2,248
Assessment                                      1,532        -         -     1,532         -         -     1,532     4,597
Resarch                                           153     613       690       690       690        536        77     3,448
SubtotalSpecialPrograms &Grnt                     2,104    2,154     3,594     4,402     1,768     1,511     2,131    17,683
Tota lInvestmnt Costa                              44,941   77,401    83,432    69,299    62,325    53,104    30,759   421,260
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Prsonnal                                         528    1,224     2,230     2,419     2,230     1,614       805    11,051
B. Operating Costs                                1,123    2,488     3,538     3,738     3,916     4,009     4,148    22,961
C. Supervisionmissons                               47       110      203       203        203       156        94     1,016
D. Mangament sessons                                 2        2         2         2         2         2          2        14
E. Maintenanc                                      347    1,287      2,507     3,759     4,997     5,982     6,560    25,438
TotalRecurr.ntCoeta                                 2,048    5,111     8,480    10,121    11,349    11,764    11,809    60,481
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                 48,989   82,511    91,912    79,419    73,874    64,887    42,368   481,740
Physical Contingencies                            4,476    7,757     8,396     7,358     6,968     6,235     4,098    45,285
Prke Contingencies                                  592    3,138     5,874     7,195     8,694     9,478     7,405    42,376
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                  52,058   93,406   106,182    93,972    89,334    80,579    53,871   569,402



-  114 -                              Annex 14
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs (USS '000)
Elementary Education
Improvement
In 26 Prov.
Capacity Building at Natni & Reg'nl Levels    Cap. Build
National    Support to                       at
Managemen  Policy/Decision    Support to    Provincial
Structure     Making      Decentralization    Level    DEDPs    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
1. School Buildings                       -               -               -          -   162,817   162,817
2. Other Buildings                      511               -             613          -     7,426     8,550
Subtotal Civil works                      511               -             613          -   170,244   171,367
B. EquipmentlFurniture
1. Equipment                            152               -            1,110     4,216    66,412    71,889
2. Furniture                             13               -              15        148     8,208     8,384
Subtotal Equipment/Furniture              164               -            1,125     4,364    74,619    80,273
C. Textbooks and Inst. Materials
1. Instructional material
Textbooks sets (reprint)                -               -                -         -      5,694    5,694
Teacher Manual (reprint)                -               -                -         -       370       370
Textbooks sets (published)              -               -                -         -    21,809    21,809
Teacher Manuals (published)             -               -                -         -      1,478    1,478
Multigrade sets                         -               -               -          -     4,401     4,401
Printing Paper                          -               -               -          -     2,440     2,440
Subtotal Instructional material           -               -               -          -    36,191    36,191
2. Communication material                 -               -             347      2,004         -     2,352
Subtotal Textbooks and Inst. Materials      -               -             347      2,004    36,191    38,542
D. Specialist Services
International Specialists             1,457            478             1,031       429         -     3,395
National Specialists                  3,895            177             2,789     13,167        -   20,028
NGO Assistance                            -               -           4,061          -         -    4,061
Subtotal Specialist Services            5,352            655             7,881     13,596        -    27,484
E. Training
INSET - Mat. & Trainors                                   -               -          -   40,528    40,528
INSET - Per Diem & Transport                              -               -          -   40,183    40,183
Other Per Diem and transportation         -              7               66         95         -       167
Other Materials and Trainors              -              3               80        115         -       198
Workshops                                 -           1,745             683       2,426        -     4,854
Subtotal Training                           -           1,754             828      2,636    80,711    85,929
F. Special Programs & Grant
SIIF National Window                      -           3,772               -                    -     3,772
SIIF Provincial Window                                    -               -          -     3,598     3,598
Demand side Programs                      -               -               -          -     2,248     2,248
Assessment                                -               -               -          -     4.597     4,597
Research                                  -           3,448               -          -         -     3,448
Subtotal Special Programs & Grant           -           7,220               -          -    10,443    17,663
Total Investment Costs                    6,027           9,629           10,795    22,601   372,207   421,260
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                              442               -               -       5,177    5,432    11,051
B. Operating Costs                       207                -             387      3,938    18,430    22,961
C. Supervision missions                     5               -             245        766         -     1,016
D. Management sessions                      -             14                -          -         -        14
E. Maintenance                              -               -             310          -    25,128    25,438
Total Recurrent Costs                       654             14              941      9,881    48,990    60,481
Total BASELINE COSTS                       6,681          9,643           11,736     32,482   421,198   481,740
Physical Contingencies                    378            554              780      2,310    41,264    45,285
Price Contingencies                       335            850              862      2,754    37,576    42,376
Total PROJECT COSTS                        7,395         11,047           13,378     37,545   500,037   569,402



Republic of the Philippines
Third Elementary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Elem. Educ.
Improvement in 26
Prov.
Capacity
Capacity Building at Natnl & Reg'nl Levels                 Building
National    Support to                         at
Managemen  Policy/Decision     Support to    Provincial
Structure     Making       Decentralization   Level    DEDPs    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. CMi works
1. School Buildings
New Classrooms                                      -               -                -          -   116,330   116,330
Classroom Rehabilitation                            -               -                -          -    31,270    31,270
Classroom repair                                    -               -                -           -    34,088    34,088
School Facilities                                   -               -                -          -    13,222    13,222
Subtotal School Buildings                             -               -                -           -   194,910   194,910
2. Otwr Buildings
Expansion of District Offices                       -               -                -          -      5,322     5,322
Construction of Divisional Offlices                                 -                -           -     3,131     3,131
Refurbishing Baguio Center                          -               -               48          -          -       48
Refurbishing Regional Offices                     548               -              653          -          -     1,201
Other civil works                                  44               -                4          -          -       48
Subtotal Other Buildings                            592               -              705           -     8,453     9,750
Subtotal Civil works                                  592               -              705           -   203,363   204,660
B. Equipment/Fumiture
1. Equipment
Standard School kits                                -               -                -          -    32,771    32,771
Customized School kits                                              -                -          -    14,631    14,631
Standard Classroom kits                                             -                -          -    17,216    17,216
Customized Classroom kits                                           -                -          -      7,799     7,799
Other Equipment                                     -               -                -          -      3,060     3,060
Computers                                          69               -              938      2,096          -     3,103
Vehicles                                           72               -              343       1,286        -      1,701
Photocopiers                                       22               -               24        585         -       630
Communication Devices                               6               -                2        938         -       946
Distance Education                                                  -                -          -       932       932
Subtotal Equipment                                  169               -             1,307     4,905    76,409    82,789
2. Fumiture
4_



Classrom fumriture                                                 -                -          -     9,598     9,598
Other Fumiture                                    14               -               17        170         -       201
Subtotal Fumiture                                   14               -               17        170     9,598     9,799
Subtotal Equipment/Fumiture                          183               -             1,324      5,074    86,007    92,588
C. Textbooks and Inst Materials
1. lnstnictional material
Textbooks sets (reprint)                           -               -                -          -     6,335     6,335
Teacher Manual (reprint)                                           -        -                  -       411       411
Textbooks sets (published)                                         -                -          -    26,574    26,574
Teacher Manuals (published)                        -               -                           -      1,799     1,799
Multigrade sets                                    -               -                           -     5,173     5,173
Printing Paper                                                     -                -          -     2,715     2,715
Subtotal Instructional material                                      -                -          -    43,008    43,008
2. Communication material                                            -              414      2,408         -     2,822
Subtotal Textbooks and Inst Materials                  -               -              414      2,408    43,008    45,830
D. Specialist Services
Intemational Specialists                         1,600             537            1,129        480         -     3,746
National Specialists                             4,264             201            3,077     14,849         -   22,391
NGO Assistance                                       -               -            4,645          -         -     4,645
Subtotal Specialist Services                       5,864             738            8,851     15,329         -    30,783
E. Training
INSET - Mat. & Trainors                              -               -                -          -    48,548    48,548                                -
INSET - Per Diem & Transport                         -               -                -          -    48,136    48,136
Other Per Diem and transportation                    -               7               74        109         -       190
Other Materials and Trainors                         -               3               89        132         -       224
Workshops                                            -           2,094              788      2,897         -     5,779
Subtotal Training                                      -           2,105              951      3,137    96,684   102,877
F. Special Programs & Grant
SIIF National Window                                 -           4,088                -          -         -     4,088
SIIF Provincial Window                                               -                -          -     3,820     3,820
Demand side Programs                                                 -                -          -     2,448     2,448
Assessment                                           -               -                -          -     5,485     5,485
Research                                             -           4,099                -          -         -     4,099
Subtotal Special Programs & Grant                      -           8,187                -          -    11,753    19,940
Total Investment Costs                               6,639          11,031           12,246     25,948   440,814   496,678
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                                         503               -                -      5,922     6,191    12,616
B. Operating Costs                                   246               -              465      4,757    22,247    27,715
C. Supervision missions                                6               -              294        918         -     1,218
D. Management sessions                                 -              16                -          -         -        16
E. Maintenance                                         -               -              374          -    30,785    31,159
Total Recurrent Costs                                  756              16            1,133     11,597    59,223    72,724
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   7,395          11,047           13,378     37,545   500,037   569,402
4'S



- 117 -                           Annex 15
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement Matrix
Procurement      Estimated    Procurement   Bank Review    Disbursement
Item          Contract                                      Document
Cost>
Works Contracts  US$500,000    ICB             prior review for   Full-document
contracts       for contracts
>US$5 million   >US$5million
<US$500,000   NCB             prior review for   SOE for
& >US$50,000                  the first three  contracts
contracts; then,   <US$5million
post review
<US$50,000    National        post review      SOE
Shopping
small works in  Force Account post review      SOE
remote areas
Goods (equip.    >US$250,000   ICB             prior review for   Full-document
materials &                                    contracts        for contracts
furniture)                                     >US$l million    >US$l million
<US$250,000   NCB             prior review for   SOE for
& >US$50,000                  the first three  contracts
contracts; then,   <US$Imillion
post review
<US$50,000    National        post review      SOE
Shopping
small          community      post review      SOE
purchasing     participating
direct contract



- 118-
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Percentage of Disbursement
Philippines
Fiscal  Calendar     TEEP      Educ. Sector
Semester   Year       Year     Estimated    Standard
1                 1997         0            0
2       1998                   8            3
3                 1998         16           6
4       1999                   28           10
5                 1999         40           18
6       2000                   49           22
7                 2000         59           30
8       2001                   65           34
9                 2001         71           42
10      2002                   78           50
11                2002         85           62
12      2003                   89           74
13                2003         94           86
14      2004                   97           94
15                2004         100          100
Disbursement Graph
100
9 0  - - -  -  -  - -  -  - -  - -
80 -     -         -         -     --- ---
A   60 - - -                                               __
0                                                                -/-- +Estimated
--c_ _  Standard
E40  -    -    -             - - --       - -  -  - -  -  -
E
30                             -~ -   - -- --   - -  -p   -- ---
1997    1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Calendar Year
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank FY    FY97 FY98  FY99  FY2000  FY2001 FY2002 FY2003
Annual          18.5    23.4       19.2       15.1        17.4       12.2         7.6
Cumulative   18.5    41.9         61.1        76.2        93.6       105.8       113.4



- 1 1 9 -                             Annex 17
PHILIPPINES
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1. Background Documents
*  Philippines: A Strategy to Fight Poverty. World Bank, November 13, 1995.
*  Philippines. Public Expenditure Management for Sustained and Equitable Growth. The
World Bank, June 26, 1995.
*  Implementation Plan to Improve Elementary Education in the Philippines (J996 - 2000)
Draft. Education Sector Study Project, Department of Education, Culture and Sports. The
Philippines.
*  Aspects of Employment Location, Regional Redistribution, and Poverty and Inequality in the
Philippines.  Discussion Paper No. 9508.  Arsenio M. Balisacan. University of The
Philippines, School of Economics. September 1995.
X Phase II: A Comparative Study of High-Performing and Low-Performing Elementary
Schools. Patricia B. Licuanan.
*  Do Preschool Programs Improve Elementary School Outcomes?  Evidence from  the
Philippines. A. Mingat and J. Tan. The World Bank. February 3, 1995.
*  Putting Inputs to Work in Elementary Schools: What Can be Done in the Philippines?
J. Tan, J. Lane, and P. Coustere. The World Bank.
*  Philippine Education in International Perspective. The World Bank.
*  Child Labor: What Role for Demand-Side Interventions? Project Proposal. The World
Bank. August 21, 1995.
*  The Impact of Childhood Health and Nutrition on Educational Outcomes in a Developing
Country. An Analysis of Longitudinal Data for Cebu, Philippines. A Research Proposal.
P. Glewwe, E. King, Ladair, and H. Jacoby. August, 1994.
*  Memorandum  of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank
Group for The Republic of The Philippines. The World Bank, February 15, 1996.
*  Civil Service Reform in the Philippines. The World Bank, 1995.
*  Education Vouchers in Practice and Principle. A World Survey. Edwin G. West. Human
Capital Development Working Papers. February 1996.



- 120 -                               Annex 17
* Child Labor Issues, Causes and Interventions. F. Siddiqi and H.A. Patrinos. Human
Resources Development and Operations Policy Working Papers. June 1995.
* Development in Practice. Priorities and Strategies for Education. A World Bank Preview.
The World Bank, 1995.
* Schools Count: World Bank Project Designs and the Quality of Primary Education. Ward
Heneveld and Helen Craig. The World Bank. 1996.
* How Schools Improve. IMTEC, Oslo, 1991
*  Effective Schools in Developing Countries.  Edited by Henry M. Levin & Marlaine
Lockheed. The Standard Series on Education & Public Policy.
*  Planning Education Reforms in Developing Countries. The Contingency Approach. Dennis
A. Rondinelli, John Middleton, and Adriaan M. Verspoor.
*  Pathways to Change. Improving the Quality of Education in Developing Countries. Adriaan
Verspoor. World Bank Discussion Papers, 1991.
* Improving Primary Education in Developing Countries. Marlaine E. Lockheed, Adriaan M.
Verspoor and associates. A World Bank Publication, 1991.
II. Technical Volume
* Lessons Learned firom PRODED. Lessons Learned from the Second Elementary Education
Project. Ateneo de Manila University.
* DEDP Preparation-Progress, Issues and Concerns. Ateneo de Manila Report, June 5, 1995.
* The Philippines: Cost and Financing Issues in Education. Education and Social Policy.
The World Bank, June 1996.
* Progress in Educational Assessment in the Philippines. John lzard, Australian Council for
Educational Research Limited, 1996.
* DECS Organization Analysis. John Renner. The World Bank, February 1996.
* Towards Teacher Effectiveness in the Philippines. H. Craig and E. Zeeger. September 1995.
* Decentralization For School Based Management and School Effectiveness. L. Yu, G. Wall,
Irene de Robles, N.K. Jangira, Vetta L. Psyche Guasa, and Miriam Coprado. Draft for
Discussion, DECS. Funded by LIDA.
*  The Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP). Report on Distance Education. John
Kirk, Distance Education Specialist. April 1996
*  Project Proposal.  Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP).  Republic of the
Philippines, Department of Education, Culture and Sports.



IBRD 27835
'361~-                                                12                                                      1S 228
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY ADMINISTRATIVE REGIONS
ILOCOS                   VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                              10                                       PHILIPPINES
1 lacos Norte                 38 Akln 2-
2 -10cos S.,                  39 AC jpr.                    ~--                                                  THIRD  ELEMENTARY
4 Pa.ngosian                 41 Iloilo                                                                          EDUCATION  PROJECT
CCORILUERAADMINISTRATIVE         42 Negros Occidental                                    -                        EDUCA              I             PROJECT
REGION (CAR)                     43 Guimonos
s Ab                 VIl CENTRAL VISAYAS
6 Kolingo-Apoyoo              44 Cebu
7 Mountain Province           45 Negroe Orientol                                                                              PILOT PROVINCES
8 Ifugoo                      46 Bohol
9 Benguet                     47 Siqailo jarRPOJC   POINE
i  CAGAAN VALLEY           VI  EASTERN VISAYAS                                                    -                                 OTHERPROJECTPROVINCES
10 Batanes                    48 Northern Somar                                          11
1i Cogoyon                     49 Western Somor                               k Y                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
12 Isobelo                    50 Easern Sam.or ,                            sJ
3 NuevaViacayo                51 Le"te                                    t                                          - r   -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
14 Quirina                    52 Southern Leyts                        I2
fit CENTRAL LUZON                    53 Biliron                              II--                                                    REGION BOUNDARIES
15 Nuena Ecijo         IX WESTERN MINDANAO                              *\                  12
16 Tarlac                      54 Zamboaongo del Nods
17Zombalores                  5s Zomboongo del Sur                      3                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
8 Ponpango                    56 Basilion
19 Bulocan              X NORTHERN MINDANAO                                     13    14
6  NATIOALAnIA                     57 Surigoo del Norte                                     /        /                                                                              s
TIONA   CAPITAL                  5 8 Cumigi d N                                                                  NOTE: The number of Regions oand orinces shown an this map
PEGION (NCR)a  Cnriui
[NC) Au                        59 Aguson delNorte                                    21                       are foeer thoa the aowcfualatal. Hlo,eve, data on the-e bound-ny
21SOuTHERN TAA6 0                                                                 15 isOrintlchonges/additlon; was unovailable at the tinse of printivg.
22 Quezan                     61 Misamis Occidental               17\  L1440N
2                     ~~~~~62 Rukidnon/   i
24 CRite                          Aguscn del Sur                      /"Ya  J
Lagua               X  SOUTHERN MINDANAOPHILIPPINE SEA
24 Botangas           ~~~44Suurigoo clel Sur                               2 0
27 Marinduque                 64 Dona odel Nor te$IIAP
28 Mindoro Oriental           64  Dovoo del Nde|
29 Mindoro Occidentol          67 Dowo del Sur                                           2232
30 Romblon                     46 Sou  Cotabata                       -                 22 \-           32
49 Sorongoni                   ~
1 Pacol                XIT CENTRAL MINDANAO                                                                   33           /
32 Comorines Norte             70 Lanso del Norte                           -         v      527 [5
33 Comorines Sur              71 Sultan Kudorot                              -                               N ,/
34 Contanduones            AUTONOMOUS REGION OF                           - n>2e        --
35 Albay                   MUSUM MINDANAO (ARMM)
36 Sorsogan                   72 Lasso del Sur
37 Mobaote                     73 Moguindonso
74 North Cohaboto
7  Suu'30
12-                                      74 To-itawi                                                                                                                                      I?
/ ~ ~~~                                          ~       ~~ f(    BabVI Il
Pc0awan                                                    \/IlXXtXa 
31                                                                                 M'n       S..
71. boundaries robin, deoa.nirasa.a                                                              ~
o-d Cy oth.rtinionshu.enor
'hi mrNp db roP -mpi,Y theprm, f                                                   Sul. Sea                             _{                       gX    ?9s  4<
Th. Wrd n-k G-up, -y --f an                                                                                                                     160I
UI tr I6M s,,us rf ony 1.ruta, a_
rmy tsrmndrs.n a acVr enns ol such \/ .'.>9
r                                                                                                                               61                62         63
rr                                                              /    .<>                       < /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62  L-  8.- )r
(     x /    ^e)e7   NDAPAO                              s
CHINA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, i   /s        I                  eee Sas_
.CrAJ \Koe0
ASMM                             N                         4-I   I I'                          I 
ORUNEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.__ES                                                    ARM'                                                   CMs SO           5          10        15D        0
N 0 0 N n S-I A
03/1Z/1996    rw c                   4 D c                      F









IMAGING
Report No:       15888 PH
Type: SAR



