Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4108 PH
                               Loan Agreement
                    (Third Elementary Education Project)
                                  between
                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated December 20, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4108 PH
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount
equivalent to one hundred twelve million dollars ($112,000,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and OECF; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     (a)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
     "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of
     the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
     have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for
     a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the
     Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an
     amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's
     costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at
     any time the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be
     financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or
     fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the
     Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement
     or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having
     taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to
     remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures
     in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
     eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d)
     at any time the Bank determines that the procurement of any
     contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is
     inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
     the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures
     in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
     eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e)
     after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain
     unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have
     received notice from the Gurarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
     with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice
     to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
     Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon
     the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
     cancelled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Affected Person" means a person who on account of the
execution of Part B.2 (c) of the Project had or would have his/her:
(a) standard of living adversely affected; or (b) right, title or
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or
possessed, in whole or in part, temporarily or permanently, for use
under the Project; or (c) business, occupation, work or place of
residence or habitat adversely affected, and "Affected Persons"
means collectively all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.
     (b)  "DECS" means the Department of Education, Culture and
Sports, an agency of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.
     (c)  "Divisional Elementary Education Development Plan" and
"DEDP" mean a comprehensive plan of action for the improvement of
student participation, completion and learning achievement for a
Project Province, approved for financing under Part B.2 of the
Project in accordance with the TEEP Guidelines referred to in
Section A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  "DECS-DO" means a Divisional Office of DECS, which is
responsible in each province for planning, managing and budgeting
for public education and supervising all elementary and secondary
schools.
     (e)  "DECS Special Account" means the Special Account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
     (f)  "DOF" means the Department of Finance, an agency of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
     (g)  "Framework for Resettlement" means a framework of policy
and procedures to compensate, resettle and rehabilitate Affected
Persons, acceptable to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower, through
DECS, which shall be incorporated into the TEEP Guidelines.
Page  3
     (h)  "INSET" means the In-Service Training Program for public
school teachers and administrators under Part B.2 (b) of the Project.
     (i)  "LGU" means a Local Government Unit, a political subdivision
of the Borrower at the barangay, municipal or provincial level.
     (j)  "Memorandum of Policy" means the memorandum dated July 30,
1996 entitled Proposed Policies Governing Public Investment in
Elementary Education, prepared by DECS and adopted by the Borrower
at the meeting on September 17, 1996 of the Joint Social Development
Committee-Cabinet Level/ Cabinet Cluster C.
     (k)  "MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984,
administered by DOF through the Bureau of Local Government Finance
to make financial resources available to LGUs for duly approved
specific projects or activities.
     (l)  "MDF Special Account" means the Special Account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
     (m)  "Project Director" means the official of DECS specifically
designated by the Secretary of DECS as Project Director for the Third
Elementary Education Project with overall authority and responsibility
for the implementation of the Project.
     (n)  "Project Implementation Support Unit" and "PISU" mean the
central unit within DECS established and maintained pursuant to the
terms of Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (o)  "Project Provinces" means the provinces listed in Annex A of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and such other provinces of the Borrower
which may from time to time be designated as Project Provinces by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
     (p)  "School Improvement and Innovation Facility" and "SIIF" mean
the facility established by DECS under Part B.2 (d) of the Project,
pursuant to the provisions of the TEEP Guidelines and those set forth
in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (q)  "SIIF Grant" means a grant  in Pesos made or proposed to be
made by DECS to a DECS-DO for an SIIF Sub-project under the School
Improvement and Innovation Facility, funded out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available under the respective contractual arrangement
provided for in paragraph 6(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (r)  "SIIF Sub-project" means a specific demand-side intervention
project to be carried out by a DECS-DO utilizing the proceeds of an
SIIF Grant.
     (s)  "TEEP Guidelines" means the guidelines, acceptable to the
Bank, referred to in Section A.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to
be adopted and put into effect by DECS, which set forth, inter alia,
the procedures and criteria for the preparation and approval of DEDPs
and for the administration of SIIF Grants, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
     (t)  "TEEP Project Management Advisory Committee" and "PMAC" mean
the committee established for the purposes of providing management
guidance and advice to the Project Director in accordance with the
provisions of Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (u)  "Special Accounts" means the DECS Special Account and the
MDF Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means one of
the Special Accounts.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
Page  4
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to one hundred thirteen million four hundred thousand dollars
($113,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement:
          (i)  for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
               to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
               works and services required for Parts A, B.1 and B.2
               (a), (b) and (c) of the Project described in Schedule
               2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
               proceeds of the Loan; and
         (ii)  for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree to be
               paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
               a DECS-DO under an SIIF Grant to meet the reasonable
               cost of goods, works and services required for an SIIF
               Sub-project under Part B.2 (d) of the Project, in
               respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
               is requested.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars:
          (i)  a special deposit account for Parts A, B.1, B.2 (a),
               B.2 (b) and B.2 (d) of the Project; and
         (ii)  a special deposit account for Part B.2 (c) of the
               Project; each in a commercial bank specifically
               authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng
               Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
               the Bank, including appropriate protection against
               set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
               payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made
               in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to
               this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but
               excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
               thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
               from and including an Interest payment Date to, but
               excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars for value the first day of
               such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
               occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
               Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the
Page  5
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DECS, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and management practices for quality
elementary education, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, in respect of each DEDP under Part B.2
of the Project, through the respective DECS-DO enter into a memorandum
of agreement satisfactory to the Bank with the respective provincial
and municipal LGUs, parent representatives and other concerned parties,
which shall set forth the obligations of each party to implement such
DEDP in accordance with the TEEP Guidelines.
     (d)  The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B.2 (c) of the
Project, ensure that:
          (i)  DECS and DOF enter into a memorandum of agreement,
               satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrower shall
               make available to LGUs, through MDF, proceeds of
               the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 1
               and 2 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
               Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under terms and
               conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
Page  6
         (ii)  DECS and the Department of Public Works and Highways
               enter into a memorandum of agreement, satisfactory to
               the Bank, whereby the administration and implementa-
               tion of the school building program for elementary
               schools in the Project Provinces shall be the
               responsibility of the respective LGUs.
     (e)  The Borrower shall ensure that DECS and the Department of
Budget and Management enter into a memorandum of agreement whereby
all central government funding for public elementary education in
the Project Provinces will be allocated by divisions, incorporated
into the corresponding annual divisional budget and released
directly to DECS-DOs.
     (f)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
memoranda of agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such memoranda or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan  designed to ensure the
sustainability of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                     Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
Page  7
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Accounts was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank
prior to any modification to the Memorandum of Policy or to any of
the memoranda of agreement referred to in paragraphs (d) (i), (d)
(ii) and (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, that would materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
                               ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                    such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                    the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                    conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                    Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii)
of that Section.
                               ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the OECF
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
     (b)  the memoranda of agreement referred to in paragraphs (d) (i),
(d) (ii) and (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been
executed and become effective.
     Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely that the provisions of the Framework for Resettlement are
legally valid and enforceable in accordance with Filipino law.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
               Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Department of Finance Building
          Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex
          Manila
          Republic of the Philippines
                                   Telex:
                                   40268 CB-CONF
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                    By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                                 Authorized Representative
Page  9
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Javad Khalizadeh-Shirazi
                                                 Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the                 % of
                               Loan Allocated             Expenditures
                               (Expressed in                 to be
     Category                    (Dollars)                 Financed
(1)  Civil works                 46,500,000               50%
(2)  Goods (other than
     textbooks and instructional
     materials):
     (a)  School and classroom   23,000,000               35%
          kits
     (b)  School furniture        2,200,000               50%
     (c)  Other Goods             3,100,000               100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures,
                                                          100% of local
                                                          expenditures
                                                          (ex-factory cost)
                                                          and 90% of local
                                                          expenditures for
                                                          other items
                                                          procured locally
(3)  Textbooks and
     instructional materials    12,200,000                100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures,
                                                          100% of local
                                                          expenditures
                                                          (ex-factory cost)
                                                          and 90% of local
                                                          expenditures for
                                                          other items
                                                          procured locally
(4)  Training                   12,400,000                100% of foreign
                                                          expenditures and
                                                          25% of local
                                                          expenditures
(5)  SIIF Grants under
     Part B.2 (d) of
     the Project                 2,100,000                90%
(6)  Consultants' Services       1,800,000                100%
(7)  Unallocated                10,100,000
                                __________
Page  10
     TOTAL                     113,400,000
                               ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "instructional materials" means multigrade,
multilevel, supplementary and other print and non-print instructional
materials other than textbooks.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2)(a), 2(b), (2)(c), (3), (4) and (6) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1996; and
     (b)  payments for expenditures in respect of Categories (1),
(2)(a), (2)(b), (2)(c), (4), (5) and (6) until:
          (i)  the TEEP Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, shall
               have been adopted and put into effect by DECS;
         (ii)  the memoranda of agreement referred to in Section 3.01
               (c) of this Agreement shall have been executed in
               respect of the following Project Provinces: Agusan
               del Sur, Antique, Benguet, Guimaras, Ifugao and
               Surigao del Sur; and
        (iii)  the following key staff of the PISU shall have been
               appointed: facilities specialist, procurement
               specialist and one advisor in each DECS-DO in the
               Project Provinces.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
     (a)  goods under contracts costing less than $ 1,000,000
equivalent;
     (b)  works under contracts costing less than $ 5,000,000
equivalent or under force account;
     (c)  consultants' services under contracts with firms or
individuals costing less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000
equivalent respectively; and
     (d)  training;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve
elementary education in poor provinces in the Philippines through:
(i) strengthening the capacity of DECS to deliver public elementary
education more effectively, and (ii) improving student participation,
learning achievement and reducing student dropout rates in elementary
education in the Project Provinces.
Page  11
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Strengthening of the capacity of DECS at the central and regional
level to, inter alia: carry out evaluations of the determinants of
student participation and the impacts of proposed reforms; develop and
administer national sample-based assessment tests; carry out public
awareness programs; improve data quality and the effective use of data
for planning and policy making; conduct benefit monitoring and impact
evaluation; allocate funds; improve budget presentations and
monitoring; and deploy efficient education personnel more productively,
through the provision of training, equipment and the services of
specialists/consultants.
2.   Establishment and operation of the PISU to coordinate, support
and monitor the implementation of the Project.
Part B:  Educational Improvement in the Project Provinces
1.   Strengthening of the capacity of DECS-DOs, the district offices
of DECS and LGUs in the Project Provinces to perform their planning,
budgeting, management and monitoring functions with respect to
public elementary education, through the provision of training,
equipment and the services of specialists/consultants, and the
construction or rehabilitation of premises for DECS-DOs and the
district offices of DECS.
2.   Development and implementation of Divisional Elementary Education
Plans consisting of:
     (a)  Provision of textbooks and instructional material to students
and teachers in all elementary schools in the Project Provinces;
     (b)  Preparation and carrying out of the In-Service Training
Program for teachers and school administrators in the Project
Provinces through the provision of training, equipment and the
services of specialists/consultants;
     (c)  Expansion of student access to public elementary education
in the Project Provinces through: (i) the construction of about 9,150
new classrooms; (ii) the repair and rehabilitation of about 23,700
classrooms; (iii) the construction of other auxiliary facilities in
selected schools; and (iv) the provision of furniture and equipment;
and
     (d)  Support of experimental or pilot demand-side intervention
programs at the divisional level for the improvement of elementary
schools and elementary school education through the establishment
and maintenance of a School Improvement and Innovation Facility and
the extension of SIIF Grants to selected DECS-DOs.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
                           Annex to Schedule 2
                        List of Project Provinces
Abra
Agusan Del Sur
Antique
Apayao
Aurora
Basilan
Batanes
Benguet
Biliran
Page  12
Capiz
Eastern Samar
Guimaras
Ifugao
Kalinga
Leyte
Maguindanao
Masbate
Mountain Province
Negros Oriental
North Cotabato
Romblon
Southern Leyte
Sulu
Surigao Del Sur
Tawi-Tawi
Zamboanga Del Sur
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
     July 15, 2002                            2,385,000
     January 15, 2003                         2,455,000
     July 15, 2003                            2,530,000
     January 15, 2004                         2,605,000
     July 15, 2004                            2,685,000
     January 15, 2005                         2,765,000
     July 15, 2005                            2,845,000
     January 15, 2006                         2,930,000
     July 15, 2006                            3,020,000
     January 15, 2007                         3,110,000
     July 15, 2007                            3,205,000
     January 15, 2008                         3,300,000
     July 15, 2008                            3,400,000
     January 15, 2009                         3,500,000
     July 15, 2009                            3,605,000
     January 15, 2010                         3,715,000
     July 15, 2010                            3,825,000
     January 15, 2011                         3,940,000
     July 15, 2011                            4,060,000
     January 15, 2012                         4,180,000
     July 15, 2012                            4,305,000
     January 15, 2013                         4,435,000
     July 15, 2013                            4,565,000
     January 15, 2014                         4,705,000
     July 15, 2014                            4,845,000
     January 15, 2015                         4,990,000
     July 15, 2015                            5,140,000
     January 15, 2016                         5,295,000
     July 15, 2016                            5,455,000
     January 15, 2017                         5,605,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Page  13
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Except as provided in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Part C,
works estimated to cost less than $500,000 and more than $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,100,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 and more than
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$28,300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods for Part B.2 (c) of the Project estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $7,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $201,400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifi-
cations, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.   Community Participation
     Goods and works required for Part B.2 (c) of the Project may be
procured through community participation in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
5.   Force Account
     Works under Part B.2 (c) of the Project which meet the requirements
of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $39,000,000 equivalent
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Page  14
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply to:
     (a)  each contract for civil works estimated to cost US$5,000,000
equivalent or more;
     (b)  each contract for goods estimated to cost $1,000,000 equi-
valent or more; and
     (c)  in respect of each Project Province, the first three contracts
for works or goods irrespective of their estimated cost.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                        Implementation Program
A.   Project Management
1.   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the Project
Management Advisory Committee with membership, functions and procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, set forth in the TEEP Guidelines. The PMAC shall
be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) providing overall management advice
and assistance to the Project Director; (ii) reviewing and recommending
Page  15
for approval by the Project Director any proposed modification to the
TEEP Guidelines; (iii) providing intra-departmental coordination inproject operations 
and activities; and (iv) providing a venue for the
articulation of the perspectives and concerns of the LGUs, communities
and parent representatives, and incorporating such perspectives and
concerns in its guidance of the operations of the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain the Project
Implementation Support Unit which shall be managed and staffed by
personnel in adequate number and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank. The PISU shall report directly to the Project
Director and shall be provided with such functions, responsibilities
and resources as necessary to enable it to coordinate, monitor and
evaluate project activities, and to review and recommend for approval
by the Project Director DEDPs submitted by the DECS-DOs of the Project
Provinces.
3.   The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
principles set forth in the Memorandum of Policy and with the TEEP
Guidelines. Without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall follow the
criteria and procedures set forth in the TEEP Guidelines for: (i) the
preparation, implementation and monitoring of DEDPs, in particular
the promotion of participation therein by the LGUs, parent-teacher
associations, universities and non-governmental organizations; (ii)
the informed participation of, and consultation with, a variety of
representative communities, in particular communities with indigenous
peoples, to ensure that the design and implementation thereafter of
the DEDPs adequately addresses the needs and cultural preferences
of such communities; (iii) the assessment of the educational needs
of particularly vulnerable population including, interal, working
children, children with disabilities and children in disaster-prone
areas; and (iv) the preparation and evaluation of applications for
grants, including the SIIF Grants, and the administration thereof.
4.   The Borrower undertakes not to amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal
or waive the TEEP Guidelines without the prior approval of the Bank.
5.   The Borrower shall ensure that each DEDP shall be prepared and
appraised in consultation with the Bank.  To this end, at the annual
review of Project activities to be held jointly by the Borrower and
the Bank referred to in Section 2(B) of Part B of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its comments all DEDPs
proposed for the immediately following year, including their proposed
workplans and budget, and the PISU's assessment thereof.
6.   For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 (d) of the Project, and
without limitation to the provisions of subsections  2, 3 and 4 of
this Section A, the Borrower shall ensure that each SIIF Grant shall
be made in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions
agreed to by the Bank as set out in the TEEP Guidelines, which
conditions shall include the following:
     (a)  the Borrower shall only make available SIIF Grants for the
financing of SIIF Sub-projects which are incorporated into an approved
DEDP;
     (b)  the Borrower shall ensure that all SIIF Sub-projects will
include adequate provisions for the monitoring and evaluation on an
ongoing basis, and in accordance in each case with indicators satis-
factory to the Bank, of the carrying out of the SIIF Sub-projects
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (c)  the Borrower shall , through DECS, enter into contractual
arrangements with each DECS-DO which receives a SIIF Grant whereby
such DECS-DO undertakes, inter alia, to:
          (i)  carry out its respective SIIF Sub-project with due
               diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound
               managerial, financial and relevant sector practices
               acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly as
               needed the resources required for the purposes, and
               maintain adequate records and accounts;
Page  16
         (ii)  utilize the proceeds of the SIIF Grant exclusively
               in the carrying out of its respective SIIF Sub-
               project;
        (iii)  enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect: the
               goods, facilities and sites, if any, included in
               its respective SIIF Sub-project; copies of any
               studies or reports prepared for the purposes of said
               Sub-project; and any other relevant records and
               documents; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Borrower and the Bank all such
               information as the Borrower or the Bank may
               reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and
     (d)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  exercise its rights in relation to each SIIF Sub-
               project in such manner as to protect the interests
               of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its
               obligations under this Agreement and achieve the
               purposes of the Project; and
         (ii)  not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its
               agreements providing for a SIIF Grant, or any
               provision therefor, without the prior approval of
               the Bank.
7.   In the event of acquisition of land and other assets needed or
required to implement a DEDP under Part B.2 (c) of the Project, the
Borrower shall, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
apply the Framework for Resettlement for purposes of providing
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation measures to the
Affected Persons.
8.   Whenever the Framework for Resettlement shall be applicable to a
DEDP pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.7 of this Schedule and
without limitation to the provisions of Section B of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, by not later than 30 days after completion of
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons
retain an independent monitoring agency with qualified and experienced
staff under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which shall:
          (i)  undertake the external monitoring and supervisions
               of the implementation of the Framework for Resettle-
               ment in each DEDP under Part B.2 (c) of the Project;
         (ii)  prepare and furnish to DECS and the Bank annual
               monitoring reports thereof, the first of such
               reports to be furnished  by September 30, 1997; and
        (iii)  prepare and furnish to DECS and the Bank final reports
               on completion of each DEDP on the implementation of
               the Framework for Resettlement.
9.   The Borrower shall administer the national sample-based assessment
tests in all Project Provinces in 1998, 2000 and 2002; and in
accordance with methods acceptable to the Bank.
10.  The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comment, a proposed strategy to address
demand side issues in the provision of elementary education, including
with respect to health and nutrition, and thereafter implement said
strategy, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
11.  The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1997, prepare, in consultation
with the Bank, a plan for the distribution of textbooks on a nation-
wide basis with the goal of providing a set of two textbooks per pupil
in all public elementary schools including in the most remote areas,
and thereafter implement said plan.
Page  17
B.   Monitoring and Reporting
1.   The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Director and the PISU
maintain policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate,
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof. In particular, for the
purpose of assisting in the preparation of the reports referred to in
subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (a) of Section 2 of this Part
B, the Project Director and the PISU shall engage persons with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank to conduct
annually, with the participation of the beneficiaries of the Project,
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a full assessment
of the implementation of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank; and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of the report of such
annual assessment promptly upon its completion.
2.   The Borrower shall:  (a) prepare under terms of reference accept-
able to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank:
          (i)  a quarterly report by February 28, May 31, August 31
               and November 30 of each year commencing in 1997,
               integrating the results of the monitoring and
               evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section
               1 of this Part B, on the progress achieved in the
               carrying out of the Project during the period
               preceding the dates of such reports;
         (ii)  an annual report by August 31 of each year, commencing
               in 1997, integrating the data and other information
               contained in reports prepared in the twelve month
               period preceding the date thereof pursuant to sub-
               paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 2, including, in
               particular, a summary of the participatory performance
               audit to be conducted in each Project Province, and
               setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
               efficient carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
               ment of the objectives thereof during the twelve months
               following said date; and
        (iii)  a mid-term report, on or about August 31, 2000,
               integrating the data and other information contained
               in the annual reports prepared prior to said date
               pursuant to sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 2
               and setting out the measures to ensure the efficient
               carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
               the objectives thereof during the period following
               such date; and
     (b)  review with the Bank by such dates as the Bank shall request
the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 2 and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such reports
and the Bank's view on the matter.
                               SCHEDULE 6
                        Performance Indicators
                               SCHEDULE 7
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means for the DECS Special
Account Categories (3), (4), (5) and (6) (collectively the DECS
Categories) and for the MDF Special Account Categories (1) and (2)
(collectively the MDF Categories), all as set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  18
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to:
          (i)  $3,000,000 for the  DECS Special Account; and
         (ii)  $3,000,000 for the MDF Special Account;
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in such Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,500,000 for the
DECS Special Account and $1,500,000 for the MDF Special Account until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the amount of $20,000,000 for the DECS Categories
and the amount of $20,000,000 for the MDF Categories, respectively.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special
Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits into said Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of said Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a
Special Account:
Page  19
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for said Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to said Categories shall equal twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
said Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
