                                                                                                             91727
Philippines -- Introducing Competition to the Benefit of School Children
                                                                                                             July 1, 2002
                       As a result of a textbook privatization law passed in the Philippines in 1996, the production of school
                       textbooks by the government was discontinued and private Filipino publishers were invited to get their
                       books accredited by the Department of Education (DECS) for selection as textbooks. While the
                       intention of the law was to end a government monopoly and open the textbook industry to competition,
                       the implementation of the law resulted in the protection of a few suppliers of low quality and high-
                       priced textbooks. Most of the reputable publishers in the Philippines did not want to do business with
                       DECS which is widely perceived to be a corrupt and inefficient agency. As a result of the transition and
the increased cost of textbooks from negotiated prices, the textbook to pupil ratio dropped precipitously, and by 1998 was as
low as one textbook to eight pupils.

A Bank-financed Third Elementary Education Project had funds available for textbooks — but required competitive bidding
procedures. With the support of high-ranking officials from DECS and the Department of Budget and Management, the project
team was able to reach agreement with DECS to purchase textbooks through international competitive bidding.. The results of
the bidding were astonishing.

Prices were lower by 40 percent, falling from 40-65 pesos per book to the negotiated prices of 25-40 pesos per book, and the
quality of the content and paper were superior to those produced before competitive bidding was introduced. The government
saved US$4 million out of an estimated bidding of US$10 million — this translates into more books for more schoolchildren.
Moreover, as a result of this success, the Bank funded an additional US$35 million worth of textbooks under another
government project, which is intended to improve basic social services to the poor, the Social Expenditure Management
Project.

A total of 50 million textbooks have been purchased so far under these two Bank financed projects. The Bank is now helping
the government formulate a long term textbook policy and plan the distribution, tracking and use of textbooks in the
classroom.

Updated: July 2002
