Dicument of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ON
i-A' *Z 6  P 46 f   PK
Rqet No. P-4694-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND r'VELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt200 MILLION
TO
THE ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
July 8, 1988
This docent has a restricted disthutlo ad may be used by recipiets ony in the performance of
their officai dties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autationL



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Rupees (Rs)
us$ 1                        17.5 (FY88)
Rupee I.                    0.057
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADBP      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakiste-n
ADP       Annual Development Program
APCOM     Agricultural Prices Commission
ASAL      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
DAP       Di-ammonium Phosphate containing 18% N and 46% PaOs
CECP      Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan
FID       Fertilizer Import Department
GOP       Government of Pakistan
MFAC      Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOP       Muriate of Potash containing 601 KzO
MP&D      Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP       Ministry of Water and Power
NAP       National Agricultural Policy
NARC      National Agricultural Research Center
NFC       National Fertilizer Corporation
NFDC      National Fertilizer Development Center
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PASSCO    Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PARC      Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PC        Program Coordinator
PD        Program Director
PFD       Provincial Food Department
PID       Provincial Irrigation Department
PSC       Progrem Steering Committee
RAP       Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture
RECP      Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
SCARP     Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SOP       Sulphate of Potash containing 50% KaO
TCP       Trading Corporation of Pakistan
TSP       Triple Superphosphate containing 46% P20s
WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority
WUA       Water User Association



IFOR OffCIAL USE ONLY
,PAKJTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTEN" IS
Page No
PART    : THE ECONOMY .................,....................                   i
A. Background ........
B. Macroeconomic Performnce: FY84-87...........8                    2
C. The Development Challenge ........................ ....          3
D. Medium-Term Adjustment Program*          ..   .a       .         4
PART  II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN PAKISTAN..........             6
PART III: THE AGRICULIV- ,  SECTOR..*.* . . . .*                               8
A. Resource Base ................a8
B. Structurer............................................           8
C. Agriculture Sector Issuess................o.......               9
D. Recent Policy Reforms................................    16
PART  Iv: THE AGRICULT?RAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROM..............    18
A. Background...u..n..........                                     18
B. Objectives and Scope.................... .......                19
B.1 Resource Mobilization .....  . .......  ....               20
B.2 Investment Program in Agriculture & Water Sectors    23
B.3 Institutional Development..   25
PART   V: THE PROPOSED LOAN          .........N.  . .    26
A. Objecivs ........                                               26
B. Financing ................. *040   27
C. Procurement and Disbursement.......................*            27
D. Accounts and Audit..... ................ .........              28
E. Program Administration        .. ....................  ,    so..  28
F. Tranche Release ..............  I......................         28
G. Benefits and Risksi...................................    29
PART  VI: RECOMMENDATION........................................              31
ANNEXES
I .  Main Economic Indicators.          c ..s. .......                 32
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations.........................           35
III.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet...........................    37
IV.  Policy Agenda Matrix      a..................... ....              38
V.  Formula for Derivation of Economic Subsidy..............    40
VI.  Policy Statement on the Agriculture Sector;*r.....                 42
MAPS - IBRD 19993
IBRD 19994
This document has a rstrtd distibution and may be ued by reiits o  in the peformuce
of thir offic  dutLs Its contents may not otherwie be diclosed wihout Wodd lank authrizto.



(i)
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSrtENT WLAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower                :    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount                  :    US$ 200.0 million equivalent
Ter                          20 years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Description             :    The broad objective of the proposed loan is to
support Government's efforts in promoting
competitive agriculture and enhancing sustainable
productivity and growth. To achieve this
objective, the Government has agreed to pursue an
adjustment program designed to mobilize domestic
resources through cost and subsidy reductions;
rationalize the investment program in the
agriculture and water sectors; and introduce
institutional improvements. The specific wPasures
include: (i) phasing out of economic subsidies for
phosphate and potash fertilizers; (ii) privatizing
p'iblic tubewells in fresh groundwater areas to
improve the management of groundwater resources
and move towards full recovery of irrigation
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs; (iii}
formulating an investment program in the
agriculture and water sectors geared toward
improving the efficiency of existing assets, and
support services in agricultural research and
extension; and (iv) strengthening institutions
that deal with agricultural pricing, rice and
cotton export, and water sector investments.



(ii)
Benefits and Risks      :    Implementation of the above program is expected to
generate substantial budgetary savings estimated
at US$50.0 million annually. With the transfer of
public tubewells to the private sector,
utilization of groundwater resources would improve
and farmers would be better assured of the supply
of irrigation water. Among the risks is the
possible lag in phasing out the fertiliser
subsidies due to major price instabilities in the
international market. Another possible risk is
that implenentation of the public tubeweu.
privatization program may be delayed if agencies
fail to coordinate their efforts. However, the
Government has initiated some measures to reduce
input subsidies and privatize public tubewells.
These actions demonstrate the Government's
commitment to taking steps needed to attain the
policy objectives.
Estimated Disbursements:    The proceeds of the Loan would be released in two
tranches-US$100.0 million following Loan
effectiveness, and the balance of US$100.0 million
in October 1989-subject to satisfactory
performance on agreed policy messures.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUFMON AND DEVELOPNT
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE 16LAMWIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISAN
1.       I submit the following report and reco_sendation on a proposed Loan
for the equivalent of US$200 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to
support an agricultural sector adjustment program. The Loan would have a term
of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
PART L THE ECONOMY
A- 
2.       Pakistan covers an area of over 800,000 sq. km., has a population of
about 101 million (as of January, U87), and an average per capita income of
US$380. At its inception in 1947, Pakistan had a serious shortage of skilled
manpower, and was also constrained by a limited manufacturing capacity and
lack of assured markets for its traditional agricultural products.
3.       Despite these obstacles, Pakistan's overall economic record has
improved since the late 1970s. Real GNP growth has averaged 6-fZ per annum
since 1977. Inflation has been moderate, dropping to an average rate of less
than 51 in the past three years. Open unemployment has not emerged as a
problem due to employment opportunities created by the economic boom in the
Middle East. Pakistan's balance of payments performance in the late 1970s and
early 1980s was satisfactory, as exports and migrants' remittances increased
substantially. The debt service ratio, while manageable, has been increasing
rapidly in recent years, to 28S.
4.       Important policy changes have been occurring, especially during the
Sixth Plan Period (FY84-88). The Government has made progress in moving away
from a highly regulated to a more market-oriented economy. However, the pace
has been faster in areas of investment sanctioning, pricing, and import
monopoly dereguiation and flexible exchange rate management, and slower in
trade liberalization and disinvestment in public enterprises. The Government
has been reasonably successful in redirecting public development expenditure
toward priority sectors-energy, agriculture, education, and health-although
there have been shortfalls in targets.



-2-
B. Macroecoomnie Performance: FY84-87 If
5.       The Sixth Plan's objective was to achieve continued growth in excess
of 62 p.a. through a major breakthrough in agricultural production (especially
in minor crops), an expanding foothold in export markets for agricultural and
manufactured products, rapid development of selected industries in which
Pakistan has comparative advantage, and faster expansion of public services
critical for long-term economic and social development.
6.       During FY84-87, Pakistan succeeded in attaining rapid growth
averaging 6.62 p.a., in real terms, but agriculture growth at 3.5% p.a., fell
short of Plan targets. Agriculture's low growth rate is attributed to
unfavorable weather conditions causing a poor cotton and wheat harvest in
FY84, which resulted in a 62 fall in production. In FY85, output bounced back
with 12.22 growth, and sustained an average growth rate of 6.51 in FY86, and
due to post-harvest wheat damage, output growth declined to 2.2% in FY87. The
diversification of output intq minor crops was also slow to materialize.
7.       There has also been a shortfall from the Sixth Plan's targets for
investment and savings. The investment rate has remained at 15.72 of GNP and
the past pattern of rapid economic growth with relatively low investment rates
has continued. As regards savings, higher private savings rates were offset
by a deteriorating public sector savings performance. A low domestic savings
rate has necessitated s. continuing dependence on uncertain flows of migrant
worker remittances and foreign borrowings to finance investments.
8.       Fiscal performance deteriorated significantly, reflecting both the
lack of a comprehensive revenue generating effort and continued rapid growth
of expenditures. The consolidated fiscal deficit for federal and provincial
governments increased from 6.0% of GDP in FY84 to 8.9S of GDP in FY87.
Shortfalls in foreign finance forced the Government to finance about 902 of
Annual Development Program (ADP) expenditures by domestic borrowing, mostly
from non-bank sources. Such high fiscal deficits are not sustainable; they
imply adverse medium-term consequences for domestic financial stability and
the balance of payments.
9.       During FY84-FY86, the balance of payments was affected by instability
in world commndity markets, sluggish recovery of world trade, declining
mig-art worker remittances, poor performance of non-traditional exports, and
shorcfalls in aid dis'ursements. With higher deficits averaging 3.72 of GNP
as against 2.71 in the Plan, and also aid shortfalls, the Government relied on
reserve drawdtiwns and short-term borrowing for financing. By the end of FY86,
gross official reserves had fallen by nearly $1 billion, to a level equivalent
of six weeks of imports of goods and services. In FY87, the current account
deficit isirroved markedly, falling to 22 of GNP, as a result of improvement in
the terms of trade and continued high export volume in cotton and cotton
textiles and in non-basmati rice. Gross reserves, however, did not improve.
Moreover. the current account remains vulnerable to external shocks, given the
1/   See Report No. 6533-PAK, Pakistan: Country Economic Memorandum, February,
1987 for a detailed review of Sixth Plan performance and major issues.
Key economic indicators are reported in Annex I.



-3-
dependence of export receipts on cotton-based products, the large trade
deficit, and the declining trend in worker remittances.
10.     There was a sharp shift in the composition of the ADP during FY84 to
FY87 toward the sectors given priority by the Sixth Plan. All priority
sectors (except a4riculturetirrigation) received significant increases in
allocations and shares. However, the increases were not as much as called for
in the Sixth Plan, and the shares of a number of sectors being de-emphasized
in the Plan either rose or did not 'all as much as called for.  As a
consequence of this Pnd the slower-than-anticipated expansion of ADP
expenditures at the end of FY85, there were shortfalls in outlays in a number
of priority sectors as compared with Plan projections, especially energy,
agriculture, irrigationldrainage, education and health. Sectors and areas
where expenditures were running above planned levels included: fertilizer
subsidies, rural development (mostly roads), and physical planning and housing
(mainly for increases in government buildings and housing). Thus, by the end
o. m5, there was an attempt to redirect public sector development
priorities. These initiatives-namely a Priority Plan (FY86-FY38) and the
Prime Minister's Five-Point Progr;,A--acknowledged the investment shortfalls in
the priority sectors and attempted to restore the basic tarust and at least
some of the momentum of the Sixth Plan. While these initiatives have
successfully increased allocations for priority areas, shortfalls In most of
these areas are likely to remain by the end of the Plan. Government estimates
pertaining to economic performance in FY87 showed satisfactory real growth of
CDP at 4.9X, with agriculture at 2.2X, and manufacturing at 7.7X.
C. The Dev!g_ment Challenge
11.    Despite Pakistan's commendable *ecord of growth, structural problems
persist which will make it difficult fo& the country to maintain its economic
momentum over the long-run. Agricultural productivity, while improviag, is
still low. Pakistan must now increase its agricultural yields through
iatensive rather than extensive agricultural methods. It needs to introduce
more foreign and domestic competition to improve efficiency of industrial
firms. Resource mobilization is of concern. Savings and investments rates
are low, with indications that the country's physical infrastructure capital
is being drawn down. Government savings have fallen over the decade, as the
fiscal deficit has increased. The balance of payments remains vulnerable to
external shocks, in spite of the recent improvement in the current account
deficit. Finally, human resource and social development require the sustaiLed
priority of the Government, in order for the population to both  waotribute to
and share in the growth process.
12.     The private sector has been given the major responsibility for
economic expansion. However, the Government must provide a supportive policy
environment and the initiative and resources to improve the human and physical
infrastructure base of the country. Therefore, elements of the Government's
medium-term policy agenda involve resource mobilization and reduction of the
fiscal deficit, with supporting trade policy and financial sector reforms, and
continuation of its domestic deregulation efforts. Equally serious longer-term
problems with less visible immediate impacts include rapid population growth,
inadequate human resource development, and deterioration of the country's
national resource base. These issues combine to threaten the Government's



objective to alleviate poverty and equitably distr:bute the fruits of economic
growth.
Reduction of the Fiscal Deficit and Resource Mobilization
13.     The most pressing macroeconomic problem facing Patistan is the large
fiscal deficit, which generates destabilizing inf'ationary and balance of
payments pressure and threatens to crowd out private investment. The rising
fiscal deficits from 5 of GDP in the early 19808 to almost 9% in FY87 have
reflected both the lack of a comprehensive revenue generating effort and
continued rapid growth in expenditures. While expenditure control is needed,
public resource mobilization is critical to reduce the fiscal imbalance. The
tax system, cost recovery, and public enterprise operations all need
improvement. Tax revenues have declined from 14£ to 132 of GDP, although the
Covernment has been able to maintain total revenue collection at about 16-17S
of GDP through ad hoc discretionary measures. The elasticity of the tax
system is low partly because of the narrowness of the tax base and the large
number of exemptions. Income taxes account for only 15 of tax revenues, with
most of it from corporate sources and with agricultural incomes exempted.
14.     The FY89 Federal budget, which features strong revenue effort and
constrained expenditure growth, reflects the commitment of the Government to
reverse fiscal deficit trend of recent years. This budget, described further
in para 17, is a desirable step in a longer-term resource mobilization effort,
which should broaden the base and revise the structure of taxation. A phased
reduction in the share of taxes on international trade and trresponding
increase in domestic taxation are important. So is strengthened cost recovery
and reduction in subsidies. The proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL) would support this effort through cost savings and subsidy
reductions--delegating increasing responsibility to the private sector for
groundwater management, input marketing and distribution, apd phasing out
fertilizer subsidies.
Rationalization of Public Investment
15.     While increased public investment is obviously desirable, efforts at
public expenditure rationalization should be intensified and increased public
investment would have to be targeted at a level consistent with available
domestic and exLernal resources. More attention to operation and maintenance
of infrastructure and social services, and rehabilitation would also result in
better use of the public capital stock. Inadequate recurrent expenditures
have led to deterioration of social service facilities.  Private sector
resources would also be tapped to complement and, in certain activities, to
substitute for public sector involvement. Under the ASAL, priority
investments in agriculture and water sectors would be formulated with a view
to restricting public sector involvement in areas where the potentials for
private sector participation have been identified.
D. Medium-Term Adiustment Pog
16.    The need to reduce the fiscal deficit and undertake structural changes
to strengthen the foundation for continued economic growth is recognized by
the Government. In April 1988, the GOP presented the proposed outline of a



-6-
PART H. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN PAKISTAN
18.     Since 1952, the Bank Group has made 63 loans and 102 development
credits to Pakistan, totaling US$2,498.5 million and US$2,654.8 million (both
net of cancellations) respectively. Of these amounts, US$660.8 million has
been repaid and US$2,206.6 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1988.
19.     Since 1958, the IPC has made 34 commitments in Pakistan totaling
US$285.51 million, of which US$190.75 million has been repaid, sold,
terminated, or cancelled. Of the balance of US$94.76 million, US$79.36
million represents loans and US$15.4 million equity.
20.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. Approximately 262 of total Bank/IDA
commitments to Pakistan have been for energy, including gas pipelines and
petroleum; 222 for industry; 212 for transportation and public utilities; 19%
for agriculture and irrigation, and 122 for social programs in education and
population. The Bank's assistance strategy has been to support Government's
efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms in three key sectors-energy,
industry, and agriculture-whose performance is critical for the successful
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from
"djustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the
strategy also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social
sectors which have received relatively less attention in Pakistan's past
development efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of
traditional instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed-from sector
work and active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending,
technical assistance, and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program
comprises two con?onents, the larger of which supports specific high-priority
investments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, energy, and transportation, and relies
heavily on a broad range of well-focussed economic and sector work. In
addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum, the Bank Group tries
to help Consortium members better understand the Government's development
program, economic policies, and performance.
21.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of P:kistan's economy. The Bank's
association with Pakistan in the fieid of water resources dates back to the
successful Indus Water Treaty. This long standing legacy of relationship has
established a firm basis for Bank's assistance for agricultural development to
meet the growing demand for food and fibre. The Bank and the Government have,
'!: many years, agreed that the main strategy for agriculture and,
consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase productivity
through improvements in the efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting
agricultural services. Among the issues beiig addressed are: the balance
between short-gestation projects and projects with a longer-term focus,
rationalization of input and output prices, marketing, improvements in
irrigation system operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role



-5-
medium-term policy framework to the Pakistan Consortium, to correct the fiscal
imbalance, improve the structure of the external current accovunt. and reduce
distcrtions in domestic prices and costs. The important elements of this
policy framework consist of:         6
(a) reduction of the fiscal deficit to about 5A of GDP by FY91,
through revenue generation and expenditure control;
(b) maintenance of the external current account deficit at 2.42 of GNP
on average for FY89-91, with a corresponding build-up in foreign
exchange reserves;
(c) trade policy reforms, with emphasis on significant liberalization
of non-tariff import barriers, and gradual reduction in the
average level and dispersion of import tariffs, supplemented with
continued implementation of an active exchange rate policy;
(d) fiLrther relaxation of industrial regulatory controls, particularly
those pertaining to investment sanctioning;
(e) financial sector reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and
profitability of the banking system and at longer-term development
of capital markets; and
(f) reforms in agriculture and irrigation, energy, transportation, and
urban sectors which would improve public investment resource
allocation and use, increase operational efficiency, and continue
progress toward economic pricing of sectoral input and output
prices.
17.     Properly delineated, approved, and implemented as an integrated
program, the policy reforms referred to above, would provide a consistent
agenda for insuring sustained growth with domestic and external financial
stability. The full specification of the medium-term program is now in
progress, as part of the preparation of the Seventh Five-Year Plan for FY89-93
as well as current Government discussions with the Bank and the IMF on a
proposed Policy Framework Paper. The FY89 budget and trade policy measures
announced at the ead of June 1988 represent important elements of this
longer-term program. The FY89 budget presented by the Government features a
significant reduction in the fiscal deficit equivalent to more than 21 of
GDP.  Revenue increases, primarily from extensions to the sales tax but also
from direct and other indirect taxes, account for the bulk of the adjustment,
altF'ough expenditure growth is also constrained. Unlike the budgets of
previous years, the FY89 budget provides a cushion with which to absorb
unplanned expenditure and revenue deviations from budgetary targets, without
increasing the budget deficit beyond the range consistent with macro-economic
stability. Allowance for these contingencies would put this year's deficit in
the range of 6.52 of GDP, compared with an estimated FY88 deficit of almost
8.51 of GDP.



for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from
irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, credit, and extension
and have included institution-building components.
22*     Policy-based lending to Pakistan has been pursued through a Structural
AdJustment Loan (SAL), an Energy Sector Loan (ESL), and an Export Development
Loan WtEDL). The SAL program introduced a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy, and industrial sectors; by the time the Loan was fully
disbursed at the end of FY83, significant progress had been achieved in the
above a^eas. The ESL supports the Government reform program for the energy
sector and assists in the implementation of a core investment program for the
sector. The EDL supports the Government's reform program in the industrial
sector aimed especially at the promotion of exports. Continuing support for
sectora' adjustment, through other sector loans, is envisioned for the next
few years.
23.     Bank Group operations now being appraised are directed towards
achieving satisfactory growth in the productive sectors and increasing export
earnings, eliminating infrastructure impediments to economic development, and
addressing some of the long-standing problems in the social sectors. Projects
in preparation that would support production increases include lines of credit
for industrial financing, irrigation/drtiiage, research, and agricultural
inputs and services. The projects direc;ed at eliminating infrastructure
impediments focus on power generation and port modernization. The projects in
preparation dealing with education, urban development, and potable water
supply would be aimed at promoting human resource development. Sector loans
that would support further adjustment in industry, energy, and transportation
are being considered. The Bank's ability to make such loans will depend on
the presence of a suitable sectoral policy environment and the creation of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
24.     Pakistan's limited economic development and low per capita income
justified the Bank Group's extending most of its financing through IDA until
1982. During the period 1982-85, an increasingly larger percentage of Bank
Group financing has been channeled through IBRD lending, and since FY85 new
IBRD lending has been more than twice that of new IDA financing. The amount
of IDA funds available to Pakistan is likely to remain m        If the Bank
Group resource transfers to Pakistan are to be maintained or increased, the
principal source would be IBRD lending. Pakistan's high growth rate in the
Fifth and Sixth Five-Year Plans and its willingness to undertake significant
economic policy changes and adjustments have made it creditworthy for Bank
lending, despite low income levels. Pakistan's debt service was about 261 of
exports of goods, all services, and transfers in FY86 and is expected to rise
to about 281 in FY88, and then fall back to about 21S in FY93. Although the
current and projected debt service ratios are above historical levels, they
are manageable and do not adversely affect Pakistan's creditworthiness. Its
continued creditworthiness will also depend on its ability to solve its fiscal
and balance of payments problems by taking measures to increase domestic
resource mobilization, increase exports, and make further policy adjustments
in the energy, agricultural, and industrial sectors.



-8-
PART JIL THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Resource Base
25.     Pakistan is situated in arid and semiarid agroclimatic zones, which
have influenced its economic growth, particularly its agricultural
development. Of the total geographic area of 80 million ha, 21 million ha are
cultivated of which 16 million ha are irrigated. Precipitation ranges from
less than 50 mm in the arid zone of Western Baluchistan to 1,500 mm in the
northern mountains of the North West Frontier Province. The mean annual
precipitation in about 952 of the area of the country is less than 600 m and
is concentrated during June to August. Much of the Central Indus Plain
receives an average rainfall of less than 150 am per annum. Hence, the
agricultural development of Pakistan is heavily dependent on irrigation
supplies.
26.     The Indus Basin, which covers two-thirds of the country, has the
largest contiguous irrigation system in the world. It comprises 22 dams and
barrages, 57,000 Km of canals, and about 90,000 watercourses. Surface water
supplies account for 61% of total deliveries at farmgate; about 200,000
private tubewells supply an additional 292; and the balance comes from 11,000
public tubewells designed to function as irrigation and drainage tubewells. It
is estimated that 40% of the water released from reservoirs accumulates in the
aquifer from canals, distributories, minors, and watercourses.  While 95% of
the 11 million ha commanded by the Indus irrigation system have been
classified as having moderate to very good inherent capability for crop
production, they are being increasingly affected by waterlogging and
salinity. As a result, cropping intensity in the Indus Basin is only 100l.
Soils in the Indus Basin are generally alluvial river deposits. About 857 of
the soil in the root zone is moderately coarse to moderately fine in texture.
In 1981, a nationwide soil salinity survey indicated that the water table in
227 of the irrigated command area is within 2.0 m from the surface.
B. Stnucture
27.     Despite agriculture's declining share in the overall economy, the
sector accounts for 227 of GDP, employs 527 of the labor force, and
contributes 55a of the export earnings. During the past decade, covering the
Fifth (FY1979-FY1983) and Sixth (FY1984-FY1988) plan periods, the agriculture
sector has undergone major technological and policy transformations. By
introducing technical changes, offering adequate production incentives and
increasing the availability of fertilizer, water, and credit, Pakistan has not
only attained self-sufficiency in rice, wheat, and cotton, but has generated
exportable surplus. Today it is the leading exporter of raw cotton in the
world and dominates the export market for high quality rice. Despite these
achievements, the performance of the agricultural sector suffers from
recurrent climatic failures. In FY84, for example, cotton production dropped
by 407 due to a pest attack following untimely rains, and the wheat output
declined by 127 owing to prolonged drought, resulting in a 67 negative growth
rate. Moreover, due to untimely rain during wheat harvest, the growth rate in
FY87 declined to 2.2X.



-9-
28.     At present, there are 4 million family farms in the country.  The
average family consists of six members and the average holding is about 5 ha.
The rural sector supports 722 of the total population, but only 20X of the
rural population are actively employed in agriculture which indicates a
relatively high dependency ratio. Despite the attempts under the land reform
acts of 1959, 1972 and 1977 to redistribute productive assets to the landless,
farm distribution is still characterized by inequity, with 25% of the farm
population owning 652 of the area. Today 502 of farmers are owner operators,
and 26% are pure tenants; however, the size of the landless (wage labor) class
is not accurately known. Migration to urban areas and temporary employment
opportunities abroad have eased the pressure on the land, particularly for
marginal farmers in the rainfed agriculture zones.
29.    Pakistan's agriculture is also characterized by regional disparities:
Sind and Punjab are the granary of Pakistan, whereas NWFP and Baluchistan are
the food-deficit regions. Average wheat yields in Baluchistan and NWFP are
about 30% lower than in Sind and Punjab. Low fertilizer applications,
traditional farming practices, limited extension services, and relatively
higher investment cost per unit of irrigated land, explain the slow pace of
agricultural development in both NWFP and Baluchistan.
C. Agriculture Sector Issues
30.     The agricultural development strategy in the sixties and seventies was
geared towards the attainment of agricultural self-sufficiency. This strategy
was promoted by expansion of cropped area made possible by additional water
supplies from Tarbela Dam and private tubewell development, provision of
subsidized agricultural inputs (mainly fertilizers and pesticides), adoption
of improved variety seeds, and an active support price policy for key
commodities. Together, these factors contributed to self-sufficiency in
wheat, rice and cotton. Despite tile strong performance of the agriculture
sector, particularly during the Fifth and Sixth Plan Periods, there are
continuing constraints to sustainable growth which affect: (a) crop yields and
productivity; (b) agricultural support services and institutions, particularly
for research and extension; (c) fertilizer use and subsidy; and (d) operation
and maintenance (0&M) of irrigation systems, water allocation among
provinces, and cost recovery.
Crop Yields and Productivity
31.     Irrigated wheat, cotton, rice, and sugarcane cover 702 of the cropped
a.ea, absorb 852 of the fertilizer application, utilize 902 of the irrigation
supplies, and generate 902 of the total value of crop production. About
two-third of wheat production increases over the years have come from yield
increases and the balance from acreage expansion. Similarly, cotton output
was boosted by increased yield accounting for about 552 of the production
gains. However, only 252 of the additional rice output during the past 15
years is attributed to enhanced yields, and sugarcane yields remain low due to
limited technological innovations. Given the current level of fertilizer
applications, the adoption of HYV seed (on about 902 of total wheat area, and



-10-
on 501 of paddy fields ), and adequate support price incentives, the average
wheat and paddy yields are significantly below the actual yields attained by
progressive farmers in Pakistan and the average yields attained in countries
at a comparable stage of development. The current low crop yields are
explained primarily by low fertilizer use efficiency, inefficient on-farm
water delivery and management, and inadequate transfer of available technology
package particularly to small scale traditional farmers. The Government fully
recognizes that future production gains to feed the rapidly growing population
(31 per annum) and to evolve a competitive production system for the export
market would only be possible through productivity enhancing measures.
Progressive farmers in Pakistan appear to have comparative advantage in
production of basmati rice, seed cotton, and wheat (marginally). In general,
the smaller and more traditional farmers, who constitute the largest segment
of the farming community, are not competitive largely due to lower crop
yields. The Bank's agricultural lending strategy is aimed at reducing
constraints to productivity as well as supporting the Government's program in
research and extension, credit, and on-farm water management.
SuDport Services and Institutions
32.     Although Pakistan has witnessed rising crop yields during the last two
decades, the achievements could have been more widespread and accelerated.
Further achievement is constrained by the predominance of traditional
agricultural practices due to limited technology development and dissemenation
to the rural population with literacy rate of 152. Moreover, there is
insufficient coordination between agriculture, and water sector investment
planning and management.
33.     While some progress has been made in improving agricultural research
services since 1980, two principal constraints are commonly acknowledged.
First, the provincial level research programs lack adequate resources to fund
priority basic and adaptive research. Pakistan ranks the lowest among South
Asian countries in its research expenditure. The average expenditure per
agricultural research scientist in Pakistan is about 50% less than in
countries in the Indian sub-continent. Shortage of funds has constrained
important research programs including crop water requirements, and soil
fertility studies. Although data exist on crops response to fertilizers,
which form the basis of current fertilizer recommendations, there is a need to
improve fertilizer use recommendations required for specific soil and farm
management conditions. Second, the Government's overall research program is
inadequately coordinated with its development priorities, e.g., crop
diversification. Given the volatile markets for the traditional cotton and
rice export crops, research to support expansion of oilseeds-a major
potential import substitute commodity-and a program to improve horticulture
development-a potentially significant export commodity-is lacking.  To
address these constraints, Pakistan's agricultural research agenda is being
assisted by various donors. The First Agricultural Research Project (Credit
1158-PAK), assisted by IDA has focussed on strengthening the Pakistan
Agricultural Research Council (PARC), the development of the National
Agricultural Research Center (NARC), and staff training. The establishment of
PARC and NARC has set the stage for better research planning, coordination,



-11-
monitoring and evaluation. However, provincial research requires upgrading.
The provincial research departments need to develop a research agenda geared
to minimizing production constraints, inducing efficient utilization of inputs
and contributing toward crop diversification. IDA is currently preparing the
Second Agricultural Research Project which will address these needs.
34.     Extension plays a vital role in linking research with farmers.  In
Pakistan, access to extension services is limited. A concerted effort to
provide agricultural extension was initiated in 1978-79 with the introduction
of the Training and Visit (T&V) system. Until recently, only a limited number
of districts in Pakistan have adopted the T&V system. The majority of
districts provide extension along traditional Lines, by an insufficient number
of poorly supervised staff who are primarily engaged in non-extension
functions. Recognizing this limitation, IDA is assisting Pakistan with the
expansion of the T&V system under Credit 1762-PAK. However, complete coverage
of Pakistan under T&V program is still a long-term challenge and requires
considerable amount of resources. The Government's effort is being
supplemented by private sector input manufacturers and distributors.
35.     A third area of institutional concern is the lack of effective
coordination between agricultural support services and water sector investment
planning and management. The federal government through the Ministry of Water
and Power (MW&P) and its planning and executing agency, the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), is responsibile for expanding irrigation to new
areas, implementing drainage and reclamation program, constructing major
reservoirs, flood protection, and watershed management. Under the 1973
Constitution, the provincial governments have been mandated to provide
agricultural support services, carry out O&M of irrigation systems, levy and
collect water charges, rehabilitate deteriorated systems, and promote on-farm
water management.  With proliferation and fragmentation of agricultural and
water-related institutions at both levels of Government, it bas been difficult
to coordinate efforts in determining investment priorities and synchronize the
completion of water sector infrastructure with timely delivery of agricultural
support services. Often, the required support services for water application
and other input uses, and land levelling, are not made available in a timely
manner following completion of irrigation infrastructure. As a result, the
irrigation systems are not being utilized efficiently. IDA is currently
assisting the provincial governments in a pilot Command Water Management
Project (Credit 1487-PAK) designed to integrate agricultural support services
in irrigation and drainage development.
Fertilizer Use and Subsidy
36.     The principal issues associated with fertilizers in Pakistan are: (a)
inefficient use of fertilizer; and (b) the fertilizer subsidy program and its
budgetary implications.
37.     Fertilizer application in Pakistan rose from 31,000 tons of nutrients
(N, P, and K) in 1960/61 to 1.8 million tons in 1986/87. Although the annual
growth rate of fertilizer application has been declining in the past decade,
during the first four years of the current plan period consumption has been
growing at 92 per annum and has reached an average of about 75 kg (nutrient)



-12-
per ha of crop. Fertilizer is now more widely used as a result of the
Gover _ent's subsidy policy, favorable input and output relative prices, the
adoption of HYV variety seeds, increased availabilty of irrigation water, and
the expansion of public and private sector fertilizer iadustry in Pakistan.
Although the Government's Sixth Five-Year plan target of total fertilizer
offtake is likely to be achieved, efficiency of fertilizer use measured in
terms of crop response ratio is estimated to be lower than the plan target.
This phenomenon points to the need for improving fertilizer use efficiency
coupled with other measures to raise productivity rather than relying heavily
on higher level of fertilizer application through price subsidy (para 31).
38.     Since the current recommendations for fertilizer use are based on
areawide average crops response to fertilizer obtained from trials conducted
in farmers' fields, the recommendations are generalized in nature and require
further refinement. Compared to the current generalized recommendations,
farmers are applying about half the total amount of fertilizer recommended.
Those who follow the Government's fertilizer recommendations reasonably
closely are likely to be the larger farmers, particularly those with ample
water supplies, owning private tubewells. The fact that the increase in
fertilizer use has slowed down since 1979-80 and that the crop yield responses
to fertilizer additions have decreased suggests that other nonfertilizer
constraints are also binding on crop yields. To encourage fertilizer use and
thereby increase crop yields and productivity, provincial governments should
introduce realistic fertilizer recommendations--quantity, composition, method
and timing of application--for the many important adverse conditions
encountered by large number of cultivators. Toward this end, the Second
Agricultural Research Project, currently under preparation by IDA, would
enable the provincial governments to strengthen their research capability,
especially for soil-fertilizer investigations.
39.     In FY86, the total fertilizer budgetary subsidy (industry and
agriculture) bill reached its peak of US$189 million which was equivalent to
1181 of the agricultural (excluding irrigation) development budget. Until the
1986 nitrogenous fertilizer deregulation, a portion of the subsidy budget was
utilized by the domestic fertilizer industry. Table 1.0 below compares the
fertilizer subsidy bill and the agricultural development budget by plan period:
Table 1.0 Fertiizer SbM_id and Aricbuture sctor
DeveloPment Iudet  V
Fertilizer       Agriculture      (i) as 2
Subsidy          Dev. Budget      of (ii)
M            ~(ii)_
--     Rs. Million       -
2nd Plan (FY60-64)             207               695              30
3rd Plan (FY65-69)             555               822              68
4th Plan (FY70-78)           2,351             4,141              57
5th Plan (FY79-83)           9,312             6,800             137
6th Plan (FY84-88)           9,170             7,995             115
1/ In current prices.



-13-
During the Fifth Plan, the record fertilizer subsidy budget was 3f higher
than the ADP for agriculture. Despite the deregulation of the nitrogenous
fertilizers and the Government's effort to phase out the remaining subsidies
on phosphate and potash, the total estimated fertilizer subsidy budget for the
Sixth Plan would still remain substantial. The Government's reliance on
bilateral and tied aid resources to procure phosphate and potash has also
contributed to the growing budgetary subsidy.
*  40.     To justify continuing phosphate subsidy, the GOP has often argued for
achieving a target of N and P20s to be applied to soils in a ratio of 2:1.
Since each crop is grown under a wide variety of conditions-climate, soil
characteristics, crop variety, amount and timeliness of water supply, crop
management practices, pest control, etc-economically sound N:PiOs
fertilizer application ratios range fromn less than 2:1 to more than 4:1 for
almost any crop. Moreover, where crop yields are low owing to unfavorable
farming conditions (e.g. poor soil characteristics, water supplies, etc.),
moderate amounts of N but little or no P20s may obtain maximum economic
yields. However, where cropping conditions are not restrictive, P20s may
have to be applied much more rapidly than it is released by the soil and a
much lower N:P20s ratio would be required to obtain high yields.
Therefore, there is no single fertilizer nutrient ratio that would be
satisfactory for a variety of crops grown under widely differing conditions.
Nutrients should be provided to each different crop-soil environment
coumbination as determined by appropriate soil and field tests.
41.     Selection of types of fertilizer imports has implication on the
subsidy bill. Import costs, associated subsidy, and prices to farmers can be
reduced if Pakistan substitutes the expensive sulphate of potash (SOP) imports
with muriate of potash (MOP) which is 60S cheaper. The main reason for not
using MOP in Pakistan is the alleged adverse effect of the associated chloride
(ion) on crop quality and the possibility of chloride toxicity. However, it
should be noted that: (i) MOP constitutes about 60S and SOP 2S of the potash
fertilizers used worldwide; (ii) except for tobacco, little, if any, SOP. is
used by farmers on irrigated agricultures in other parts of the world, even
where crops, soils, and climate are similar to those in Pakistan; and (iii)
the suggestion that salinity would intensify with the continuous use of MOP
has not been substantiated conclusively. Moreover, about 80S of the potash is
applied on sugarcane, bananas, potatoes, and rice crops that are so heavily
irrigated that chloride may not accumulate.  Most of the remaining potash is
used on tobacco, and more than half of the acreage is in NWFP where irrigation
and/or rainfall are sufficient to prevent chloride accumulation. Thus, very
little potash is used where salinity or chloride toxicity could be a problem.
Although the subject has received attention at various forums in Pakistan, the
Government needs to re-examine the issue in view of the potential foreign
exchange savings.
O&M of Irrigation Systems and Cost Recoverg
42.     Since independence, Pakistan has invested a major share of its
development resources in the Indus Basin, thereby creating the largest
contiguous irrigation network in the world. Although the system has claimed
an average of 9S of the annual provincial budgets for O&M over the last five



-14-
years, the condition of the irrigation systems in Pakistan has been
deteriorating and is now posing a threat to the systems' economic viability.
One problem is that earlier 0&M budgetary provisions, particularly in the
1970s, were inadequate so that little effort was put into proper operation and
maintenance of the vast irrigation and drainage systems. The inadequate
drainage infrastructure and limited natural drainage, coupled with inefficient
management and utilization of water resources, led to waterlogging and
salinity in the Indus Basin.
43.     In 1959, the Government embarked on an extensive and costly public
tubewell drainage and reclamation program known as Salinity Control and
Reclamation Projects (SCARP) to combat the growing threat of waterlogging and
salinity. The SCARP tubewell development program, which was originally
conceived as a drainage relief measure in saline areas, was subsequently
transformed into supplementary irrigation schemes in fresh groundwater areas.
As a result, about 11,000 SCARP tubewells, representing 90X of the public
tubewells and delivering 952 of their pumpage, have been installed in usable
groundwater areas.
44.     With the completion of the Tarbela Dam in 1976, which boosted
irrigation supplies (particularly to the non-perennial canals), waterlogging
and salinity constraints emerged as "twin menaces" that threatened to
undermine the long term agricultural development potential of the Indus
Basin. Despite the Government's effort to combat the rising water table and
salinity, a 1981 soil salinity survey by WAPDA indicated that the water table
was less than 2 m from the surface in 22S of the irrigated command area which
represented an increase of 9 percentage points from the level of 1976. Two
factors in particular have affected the productive assets of Pakistan's
irrigated areas. First, Pakistan's top priority in the water sector from
post-independence through the 1970s was to expand irrigated areas so it could
feed its growing population. However, it is estimated that only 601 of the
releases from reservoirs reach the crop root zones, and the balance enriches
the aquifer. Also, the supply-oriented irrigation management has evolved a
system of allocAting irrigation water among Provinces that is only loosely
correlated with crop requirements. In addition, poor water management has
accelerated the severity of waterlogging and salinity. Second, the decline in
the performance of SCARP tubewells, where the average discharge in Punjab is
about 502 of the original design discharges, failed to counterbalance the
aquifer recharge and thus the water table began to rise.  SCARPs successfully
provided urgently required drainage relief to waterlogged areas during the
first 10-15 years of tubewell installations. However, owing to limited budget
for O&M, the high capital cost of replacement, and insurmountable management
problems, SCARP tubewells have deteriorated and have a limited capacity to
meet drainage requirements on a sustained basis. Moreovez, SCARPs have not
performed satisfactorily in providing adequate and reliable supplemental
irrigation at a sustainable cost to the Government. To compensate for the
shortfalls from SCARP tubewells, private tubewells have developed rapidly in
SCARP areas, and are contributing effectively to control of water table and
supplementary irrigation.
45.     The prolonged neglect of proper operation and adequate maintenance is
fully recognized as the primary cause of the inefficiency of the irrigation
systems and the declining performance of the SCARP tubevells in Pakistan. As



-15-
a result, top priority is now being given to rehabilitating the entire surface
irrigation and drainage system. To help reverse the deterioration, the Bank
is directing its support increasingly to the rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage systems, on-farm water management (to improve watercourses and land
leveling), command water management (to improve tertiary canals and
watercourses and develop coordination with agricultural support services),-and
land reclamation and subsurface drainage. Critical policy measures required
to improve O&M and mobilize the resources needed to finance proper O&M were
made an integral part of ongoing IDA investment credits (1239-PAK, 1375-PAK,
and 1532-PAK), and the Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2166-PAK & Credit
1255-PAK). Since 1982, the Bank's standard covenants in all water sector
lending and the SAL to Pakistan called for improved O&M of irrigation systems,
to be measured by the size of the annual budgetary allocations. Using the
funds needed to meet a required level of O&M as a yardstick, the Government
had agreed to increase the allocation of the surface irrigation O&M budget
between FY83 and FY87 by 71 per annum in FY81 prices. The Government's
efforts to improve the quality of O&M of surface irrigation systems, as
demonstrated by the unprecedented annual increase of the O&M budget by 112 per
anmum in real terms since FY83, has been impressive.
46.     Specific target dates for full 0&M cost recovery from beneficiaries
through water charges and "other appropriate financial arrangements" were
established. Target dates for full O&M cost recovery were set for July 1,
1988, for Sind; July 1, 199u, for Punjab; July 1, 1991, for NWFP; and July 1,
1992, for Baluchistan. However, total O&M cost recovery has been stagnating
at a level of about 501 during the past five years. Given the low rate of O&M
cost recovery, it became apparent that provincial governments were unlikely to
meet the agreed full recovery target dates. At this juncture, the Bank
concluded that it was imperative to analyze the components of O&M expenditures
by Provincial Irrigation Departments (PID) and the sources of cost recovery.
The Bank's analysis revealed that:
(a) about 501 of the O&M budget is expended on SCARP tubewells;
(b) the recovery rates from SCARP tubewells is about 20X, compared
with 801 from surface irrigation system and subsurface drainage
beneficiaries;
(c) an estimated 151 of the total O&M budget recorded by the PIDs has
been inappropriately assigned as costs to irrigation
beneficiaries; the only legitimate O&M expenditure items for cost
recovery are, therefore, canal and tubewell irrigation and
subsurface drainage (tile and tubewell); and
(d) commodity fees and other non-taxes levied on producers are
payments for services (production and marketing-related),
provided to the payees and would not qualify within the context
of "other appropriate financial arrangements," thus leaving water
charges as the only legitimate source of O&M cost recovery.
47.      According to the above cost recovery analysis which was based on
disaggregated O&M expenditure items and the associated revenues collected,
Pakistan can no longer sustain the fiscal burden of operating, maintaining,



-16-
and replacing SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater areas. Moreover, the
diversion of S01 of the irrigation O&M budget to SCARP tubewells has deprived
high priority investments in general and canal systems in particular of
improved O&M. Therefore, the Government now faces the formidable challenge of
revitalizing the declining performance of irrigation systems under a
medium-term scenario of tight fiscal position. To meet this challenge, the
Government would have to work more closely with the private sector to improve
its resource mobilization, both through cost recovery and subsidy reduction.
The Baik urged the Government to reactivate its own past policy declaration,
as expressed in the Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP).
issued in 1979, and the National Agricultural Policy (NAP) declared in 1980,
and reinstated in the Sixth Five-Year Plan, on stimulating private sector
development of fresh groundwater areas. The Bank's sector work on performance
of public and private tubewells in fresh groundwater areas drew attention to
the economic and technical viability of privatizing existing SCARP tubewells
in fresh groundwater areas. Based on this finding, the Government is now
implementing an IDA-assisted pilot program known as SCARP Transition Pilot
Project (Cr. 1693-PAR), which is designed to replace about 200 SCARP tubewells
by about 2,100 small-capacity private tubewells. If public tubewells were
privatized, the management of groundwater resources would improve and public
expenditures would be reduced. Farmers' control of water supplies,
particularly for supplementary irrigation during periods of limited canal
supplies, would be the major stimulant for the private sector. The transfer
of public tubewell O&M responsibility to the private sector would release
funds for the PIDs to improve O&M of the canal and drainage systems, which is
absolutely essential if Pakistan is to achieve the sustained annual growth of
4.71 envisaged for the Seventh Five-Year Plan period and beyond.
D. Recent Policy Reforms
48.      Since independence, the Government has conducted a series of
extensive investigations into the state and prospects of Pakistan's
agriculture. The Government's agricultural development strategy was the
attainment of agricultural self-sufficiency through heavy investment in
infrastructure (storage dams, link canals and public tubewells) and input and
output pricing intervention. The first comprehensive document which
identified the emerging issues for Pakistan's agriculture and recommended
wide-ranging reforms was the RAP. The study was financed by the UNDP and
executed by the World Bank. In 1980 the Government reaffirmed the
recommendations of the RAP in the NAP. The NAP's principal policy statements
mapped the new investment strategy for the Sixth Five-Year Plan and beyond.
The overall objective of the strategy was to promote irrigation rehabilitation
rather than new investments, bring input and output prices closer to world
market levels, reduce public expenditure and enhance the role of the private
sector. These objectives were to be achieved by:
(a) establishing public investment priorities to improve the
efficiency of existing assets, notably by rehabilitating the
irrigation infrastructure, upgrading on-farm water management,
and enhancing agricultural research and extension capabilities;
(b) aligning input and output prices with resource costs, with
reference to international prices, and gradually removing
subsidies; and



-17-
(c) providing incentives tc the private sector to actively participate
in input and output marketing and distribution, the processing of
grain, and exploitation of fresh groundwater.
49.    The inefficient utilization of public sector investments in the water
sector became apparent in the early 1980s. The Government recognized that a
joint public and private sector effort was needed to efficiently utilize tU.
water resources. This strategy required that public investments be directed
toward quick-gestating projects and that new large-scale irrigation schemes be
postponed. Investments in rehabilitation of existing irrigation
infrastructure, drainage, and lan4 reclamation, and on-farm water management
were emphasized. As a result of this policy shift, the IDA-assisted Irrigation
Systems Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1239-PAK), cofinanced with USAID, has
improved 25% of the canals with serious maintenance deficiencies. An
additional 30% of the irrigation and drainage canal systems would be
rehabilitated under a follow-up project tu be assisted by the World Bank,
USAID, and The Netherlands. Concurrently, a nationwide watercourse
improvement program, under cost-sharing arrangement with Water User
Associaticns (WUA) was also launched in 1980 with IDA assistance. However,
only 101 of the 90,000 watercourses have been renovated since then.
50.     In its effort to reduce budgetary subsidies and provide appropriate
signal for resource allocation, the Government has dismantled most of the
subsidy programs for pesticides, selected fertilizers, seeds, and
mechanization. In 1980, the Government introduced a sweeping subsidy
reduction measure by privatizing the distribution of pesticides. Augmented by
adequate crop price incentives, and timely availability from private outlets,
marketing deregulation resulted in the widespread adoption of pesticides.
With regard to seed production, the Government has confined its involvement to
basic seed development and relies heavily on contra:;t farmers for improved
seed multiplication. Similarly, the Government has left the operation of
tractor-hire services to the private sector, and has limited its involvement
in the public mechanization service to heavy machinery.
51.     After its long-standing and costly fertilizer subsidy program for
industry and the farm sector, the Government raised fertilizer prices by an
average of 50% in 1980. Because of the sudden and significant increase in the
price of fertilizer in 1980, the growth of fertilizer application dropped to
2% per annum over the next two years, compared to the 21% annual increase in
1978-80 period. In view of the concern over a drastic reduction in the growth
of fertilizer usage, the Government has cautiously raised fertilizer prices
only twice since 1983. In May 1986, the Government announced the complete
decontrol of nitrogenous fertilizer pricing and deregulated its distribution
and imports, thereby removing the prevailing subsidy. This decision also
ended Government intervention in setting nitrogenous fertilizer prices and
surveillance of domestic fertilizer production costs and marketing incidentals
to determine manufacturers' subsidy or surcharges. Despite the deregulation
of the nitrogenous fertilizer pricing and marketing, significant subsidies
still remain for phosphate and potash fertilizers.
52.     In the crop subsector, the Government had established a system of
administered pricing and marketing. Controlled output prices and delivery
quotas were intended to serve the Government policy of a;upplying affordable



-18-
food to the urban population and raw material to processing industry, and
generating an exportable surplus while also providing adequate incentives to
producers. However, this administered pricing and marketing policy proved
untenable without a substantial increase in the fiscal burden. Since 1980,
the Government has been setting output support prices with a view to gradually
maintaining par.ty with border prices.  With the exception of basmati rice and
sugarcane, the nominal protectio  ~oefficients, based on domestic and
international prices, are close to unity, and indicate competitive domestic
pricing of agricultural products.' The Gov-rnment has also significantly
reduced consumer subsidy by abolishing gov.irnment wheat flour rationing, and
sugar ration shops. Because of the Government's dominant role in the wheat
market--it procures 30 of production for resale to the Provinces, release to
the domestic market, and for strategic reserves. The Pakistan Agriculturil
Storage and Services Corp. (PASSCO), the public procurement agency, incurs an
annual subsidy bill of about US$130.0 million to cover the incidental costs of
marketing and storage.
53.     Another policy measure the Government adopted was to lift market
restrictions for wheat, cotton, basmati rice, oilseeds, and sugarcane. Thus,
producers and local traders are now free to sell their products at
competitive market prices, which exist in parallel to Government support
prices. In June 1987, as part of the New Trade Policy announcement, the
Government has also allowed the private sector to enter the export trade of
rice and cotton. Under the new policy, private sector exporters would have
access to exportable cotton and rice stock prucured by the Rice and Cotton
Export Corporations. Once the policy is implemented, the private sector may
open new export markets ir. competition with the public sector export agencies.
54.     The reforms noted above have made substantial contribution to the
growth of the agriculture sector during the Sixth Five-Year Plan. In the long
run, to raise agricultural productivity and transform Pakistan's agriculture
as a prime force to alleviate rural poverty, enhance the development of
competitive products for the international market, promote crop
diversification with a view to developing competitive import substitution,
and contribute towards domestic resource mobilization, requires Government's
resolution on fundamental issues. These, inter alia, include access to
ownership of income generating assets (mainly land), improved water allocation
correlated with crop requirements, provision of appropriate technology
packages, particularly to the small fermer through improved agricultural
support services (with incentives for private sector participation), and
evolving an appropriate tax structure for agriculture.
PART IV. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTIME PROGRAM
A.   acd
55.     To address the prevailing agricultural development issues, the GOP and
the Bank have jointly formulated an adjustment program. This adjustment
program is designed to broaden and deepen the Government's evolving policy
reforms in the agricultural sector which began in 1980. The policy reforms
promoted by the NAP were supported by the Bank through the Fertilizer Imports
Credit in FY82-83, the Structural Adjustment Loan in FY83, and investment



-19-
Loans and Credits. The policy agenda for the proposed ASAL was first
discussed with the Government in 1984 and has been the basis for subsequent
policy adjustments. Actions taken by the Government include rationalixing
investments (with emphasis on improving the efficiency of existing assets
through better Q&M of water sector infrastructure) (para. 49), reducing input
subsidies (paras. 50 & 51), and maintaining adequate incentives to producers
(paras. 52 and 53).
56.    With respect to investments in agriculture and water sectors, the
Government had established a three-year (FY86-88) core program for key
subsectors with emphasis on research and extension, drainage, and
rehabilitation of irrigation systems.  The Bank's assistance strategy in the
agriculture and water sectors also reflects these priorities, including
emphasis on crop diversification (oilseeds development) and privatization of
public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas. To improve the performance of
the irrigation systems, the provincial governments have increased the Q&M
allocations significantly, while water rates were raised only sporadically
during the past five years. As a result, the water charges collected have not
been large enough to cover the growing 0&M expenditures and the total recovery
rate has dropped from 562 in FY83 to 381 in FY87 (para. 46).
57.     Despite the progress made since 1980 in reducing the fertilizer
subsidy, the unit economic subsidies (defined as the differevce between import
parity prices and domestic retail prices) on phosphate (DAP) and potash (SOP)
fertilizers still remain at 292 and 712, respectively. In FY88 the total
economic subsidy for phosphate and potash fertilizers is expected to be about
US$80 million.
58.     Notable progress has been made in pricing of agricultural products.
Producer incentives have also been maintained with output support prices
reflecting trends in international prices.
B. Objectvesand Sope
59.     During the Sixth Five-Year Plan, Pakistan's agriculture has undergone
a transition. It no longer merely supplies the domestic food and fiber
requirements; it also generates exportable surplus. The broad objective of the
proposed program is to help the Government promote competitve agriculture and
enhance sustainable productivity and growth.  To follow this course, however,
the Government would have to continue providing adequate producers'
incentives, improve the quality of technological packages and delivery of
services, and accord priority to productivity enhancing investments in
agriculture and water sectors. The budgetary implication of this strategy to
finance the investment and service requirements also deserves careful review
in the context of the growing fiscal deficit.
60.     Recognizing the need for mobilizing domestic resources to finance the
growing investment and recurrent expenditures, and to further deepen the
evolving policy reforms, the adjustment agenda under the proposed Loan iocuses
on phasing out the remaining fertilizer subsidies, reducing the irrigation O&M
fiscal burden through privatization of public tubewells in fresh groundwater
areas (which would also improve irrigation efficiency), rationalizing the
investment program in agriculture and water sectors, and improving



-20-
institutional performance. The program for privatization of public tubewells
would be reinforced by a similar program agreed with the Government under the
Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (ISRP-II). The policy agenda
matrix is presented in Annex TV.
B.1 Resource Mobilization
61.    Productivity gains accomplished largely through non-price measures
would boost the sector's ability to contribute toward domestic resource
mobilization. In the short term, the removal of fertilizer subsidies would
release resources for the much-needed productivity-enhancing activities. The
subsidy reduction program agreed under the proposed Loan would consist of:
(a) phasing out the economic subsidies on phosphate by October 1991,
and eliminating the potash subsidy by October 1995; and
(b) privatizing public tubewells under a program of SCARP Transition
in fresh groundwater areas (through various modes, such as
replacement by private sector investments and transfer to WUAs);
the Government would also refrain from investing 3ublic funds in
replacement and new tubewell schemes for public operation in fresh
groundwater areas, except for the completion of two ongoing
externally assisted projects in Sind Province.
Removal of Fertilizer Subsidy
62.     The Government is now committed to phasing out remaining economic
subsidies for phosphate and potash fertilizers and to concentrating on
farm-level adaptive research and extension services to raise the efficiency of
fertilizer use (paras 33-35). Under the proposed program, the current
subsidies on phosphate and potash fertilizers would be eliminated through
annual price adjustments in line with international price trends, cost
reduction measures in procurement, marketing and distribution.
63.     The current economie subsidy rates would be removed in equal annual
reductions with the intermediate annual targets prescribed to monitor the
progress toward eliminating the subsidies by October 1991 for all types of
phosphate products and October 1995 for potash fertilizers. In order to
effect annual domestic price adjustments, the Government would adopt a
formula, described in Annex V, based on c.i.f. reference prices (a three-year
moving average centered on the current year), converted at the prevailing
exchange rate, and adjusted for domestic marketing and incidental costs.
Because of the volatility of the fertilizer market and the need to minimize
the possible adverse impact of sudden price hikes on producers, a three-year
moving average international price would be used to compute the reference
economic prices. The three-year prices are the actual price of a previous
year, the current price, and a projected price for the year ahead. Given the
unreliability of any projected price, different sources of fertilizer price
forecasts would be compared. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that
the Government would adopt and utilize the agreed formula for deriving the
reference economic prices. The GOP/Bank would review annually, the status of
subsidy reductions and agree on the reference economic prices prior to



-21-
adjusting the domestic prices in October. As a condition of Board
Presentation, the Government has made an initial subsidy rate reductions from
the base period of July 1987. The second tranche relcase would be subject,
among other things, to review of the progress in further fertilizer subsidy
reductions, in accordance with the annual targets indicated in Annex V.
64.     To complement the price adjustment measures, the Government would also
contlnue to support cost-reduction measures in marketing and distribution.
Analysis of fertilizer marketing and incidental costs indicates that, on
average, the cost incurred by public sector agencies are higher than those
experienced by private sector distributors. The high cost structure of the
public sector marketing agencies is attributed, inter alia, to high overheads,
costly modes of transport, and large inventories. To help reduce the public
budgetary burden of marketing and incidental costs, the Government would
rationalize the allocation system of imported fertilizer among public and
private enterprises. At present, the private sector handles about 50% of the
imported fertilizers for distribution to retailers in designated markets. In
July 1987, the Government raised the share of the private sector to 60X.
Occasionally, the private sector fails to lift its share. Flexible
distribution of private distributors' share in the four provinces would
enhance maximum lifting of the private sector's allocation. Assurance was
obtained from the Government that it would take measures to rationalize the
system of allocating imported fertilizers with a view to reducing marketing
and distribution costs and increasing the share of the private sector. Public
agencies, including the publicly owned fertilizer producers and provincial
marketing enterprises, would be assured of supplies for deliveries to remote
and inaccessible areas. Although under the fertilizer deregulation policy the
private sector manufacturers are also allowed to import fertilizers and raise
their share of imported fertilizers, as long as the retail price is
controlled, the private sector is not expected to import phosphate and potash
fertilizers.
O&M Cost Recovery of Irrigation Systems
65.     Pakistan's irrigation system has suffered from years of poor
maintenance. The recent increase in O&M allocations and efforts to
rehabilitate canals and drains continue to claim substantial budgetary
resources.  To sustain the program of adequate O&M and systems rehabilitation,
resources would be mobilized through cost reduction and direct recovery from
beneficiaries. Analysis of the water rate increases required to fully recover
the O&M expenditures by the agreed target dates (para 46) shows that
collection of water charges would have to grow at an annual rate of about 40%,
in comparison with the past growth rate of 31 per annum. The wide recovery
gap and the fact that the Government is not likely to meet the agreed target
dates prompted the Bank to evolve a new approach to the cost recovery issue,
which the Government has endorsed.  The Bank has recommended a firm
privatization program of public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas to
achieve the objectives of improving the management of the grcandwater
resources by the private sector and concurrently reducing the Government's OEM
fiscal burden (paras 45-47). With this understanding, the water charges
collected from surface irrigation system beneficiaries would be applied toward
recovery of O&M expenditures on canals and subsurface drains only, and the
costs associated with public tubewells (which will be subject to phased
privatization) in fresh groundwater areas would be removed from the list of



-22-
expenditures targeted for full O&M cost recovery. The specific program agreed
under the Loan would comprise: (a) privatizing public tubewells in fresh
groundwater areas through a program of SCARP Transition; (b) improving water
charges assessment and collection; and (c) adjusting water rates periodically
to bridge recovery shortfalls, if any, after the implementation of measures
under (b).
66.     The SCARP Transition privatization program calls for the Government
commitment to: (a) replace public tubewells by small-capacity private
tubewells, and/or transfer SCARP tubewells to farmer groups, WUAs (terms and
conditions for transfer to WUAs to be defined by each province); (b) terminate
public sector replacement program of deteriorated SCARP tubewells; and (c)
refrain from committing public funds to tubewells in fresh groundwater areas
for public operation outside the project areas of ongoing externally assisted
projects (South Rohri and Ghotki) in Sind Province. Farmers are responding
favorably to the SCARP Transition concept by investing in small-capacity
tubewells under the IDA-assisted SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Credit
1693-PAK) in Punjab Province. Toward phasing out the existing 11,000 SCARP
tubewells in fresh groundwater areas, the GOP has agreed to launch a SCARP
Transition Project comprising two subprojects: the one in Punjab covers 1800
SCARP tubewells located in SCARP I area, and a pilot scheme in Sind consists
of about 400 SCARP tubewells operating in North Rohri. The Second SCARP
Transtion Project is included in IDA's lending program.  The Government has
invited short-listed firms to submit proposals for the preparation of the
SCARP Transition Project in Punjab and SCARP Transition Pilot Project in
Sind. Subsequent SCARP Transition schemes would be prepared by March 31,
1993. Assurance was also obtained that the Government would phase out
(transfer to WUAs or farmers' groups, and close down highly deteriorated wells
to be replaced by small capacity private tubewells) the entire stock of SCARP
tubewells in fresh groundwater areas. Toward this end, as part of the Second
SCARP Transition Project preparation, the Government would carry out a
detailed inventory of all public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas to
determine the schedule for phasing out such tubewells. During Negotiations,
assurances were also obtained that the Government would: (i) refrain from
replacing deteriorating SCAR- tubewells; and (ii) not authorize new
investments in tubewells for public operation in fresh groundwater areas.
Similar covenants are also included under ISRP-II.
67.     To complement the SCARP Transition program, the Government has agreed
to study methods of improving the system of assessment and collection of water
charges in all the four Provinces. Although canal water rates in Punjab
nearly cover the full O&M expenditures on surface irrigation and subsurface
drainage, Sind's recovery is about 502. Since the water rates in Sind are
almost at the same level as those in Punjab, and based on the volume of
irrigation water allocated to Sind, it is conceivable that the cropped area is
underassessed or that crops with higher water requirements are not being
charged the appropriate water rate. This likely scenario coupled with loose
collection practices explain the low O&M cost recovery rate in Sind. It is
estimated that 301 of the annual water charges remain uncollected by the Sind
Revenue Department, which also assesses water charges (in Punjab, water rates
are assessed by the Irrigation Department and are collected by the Revenue



-23-
Department). The study would examine various means of recovering these
additional dues, such as upgrading the water charges collection staff,
delegating the assessement of water rates to the Irrigation Department, and
using advanced satellite technology to estimate cropped acreage and identify
crops. The Water Charges Assessment and Collection Study. for which the
letter of invitation for technical proposals has been issued to short-listed
firms, is expected to be completed by March 31, 1989, and following a joint
GOP/Bank review an impleLientation plan prepared by May 31, 1989.
68.     Water rates are fixed by provincial governments and vary according to
the irrigation systems, crops, and modes of irrigation involved.  In addition,
drainage cesses are collected in limited areas of Punjab and Sind. With the
privatization program, the public tubewell O&M expenditures would be excluded
from the total provincial irrigation O&M budget for purposes of computing the
O&M cost recovery rate. Hence full O&M cost recovery would only be targeted
on canal and subsurface drainage expenditures. Following the adoption of the
measures to be recomended by the proposed study (para 67) for improving the
water charges assessment and collection, any estimated shortfall in water
charges to cover the full O&M expenditures on canal and subsurface drainage by
1992 in Punjab and Sind would be compensated by water rate adjustments.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would cause Punjab and
Sind to raise water and/or drainage charges periodically after the
implementation of the water charges assessment and collection improvement
measures (July 1, 1992) to fill any remaining O&M cost recovery gap of canal
irrigation and subsurface drainage, and to account for additional expenditures
due to inflation and commissioning of new projects. The target date for full
recovery would be established depending on the size of the recovery shortfall
outstanding by July 1, 1992. For NWFP and Baluchistan, the water rates
applied in Punjab and Sind, respectively, would be used as proxies in future
adjustments.
B.2 Investment Proiram in Agricuture and Water Sectors
69.     Under the Sixth Plan, agriculture and water sectors were to receive
18.4% of the total investment program budget, which represents an increase of
762 in nominal terms from the amounts achieved during the Fifth Plan. A major
departure from the Fifth Plan was the high priority accorded to short
gestation and productivity enhancing investments.  Emphasis was placed on
agricultural research, extension, education, rehabilitation of irrigation
systems, and land reclamation. During the initial two years of the Sixth
Plan, investment shortfalls across sectors (24% for agriculture and 27l  for
water sector of plaTs targets) prompted the Government to establish a
three-year (FY1986-1988) core investment program to ensure full funding
requirements during the remaining plan period. The core investment program
increased the share of agriculture and water sectors from 18.4% in the
original Sixth Plan to 20.2% of the revised plan allocation. Table 2-below
presents the original Sixth Plan and estimated actual expenditures for the
Plan period:



-24i-
Table 2.- Distibution of AMIculture and Water Sector
Investment Przoam
SFYP           SmP  Estimated
Allocation     Actual Expenditure
-_-----P1'ercent-
Agrieulture It
Storage                                     30.2                 14.0
Extension                                    8.4                  7.7
Research                                    12.9                 20.9
Meebanization                                4.8                  4.8
Improved Seeds                               4.1                 3.7
Education                                    2.9                  5.3
Other                                       36.7                43.6
Total              100.0                100.0
Water 2/
Drainage and reclamation                    43.0                42.0
Irrigation                                  34.0                34.0
On-Farm Water Management                     3.0                  5.0
Other                                       20.0                 19.0
Total              100.0                100.0
Source: Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives and Planning
Commission, July 1987
1/      Based on four-year actual (FY1983- FY1987)
2/      Based on four-year actual and FY1988 budget allocations.
70.     The core investment program was formulated with a view to: (a) giving
high priority to ongoing projects, low-cost and quick-gestating on-farm water
management, and private tubewell development; b) undertaking major projects
for which external financing has been committed; (c) maintaining
complementarity of investments; and (d) maintaining the prescribed shares of
investments in land reclamation programs among the provinces. Accordingly,
the budgetary allocations were provided to support the core programs in both
the agriculture and water sectors. However, because of delays in implementing
major drainage and land reclamation projects, full budgetary appropriations
have not been utilized. The estimated actual Sixth Plan agricultural and
water sectors ADP would reach about 17.8X, thus maintaining roughly the
targeted sectoral share for agriculture and water. What is more significant,
however, is that the Government has adhered to an investment program that is
in line with the declared priorities.
71.     To complement the Government's evolving policy reforms, the public
sector investment program would continue to emphasize the current plan
strategy in at least three principal areas. First, the Government would
ensure that full funding would be provided for improving the utilization of
existing assets, raising efficiency of input use, and increasing crop yields.
Such investments include, research and extension, on-farm water management,
systems rehabilitation, and drainage. Second, the public sector would
facilitate private sector entry to and participation in activities such as



-25-
input distribution and promotion, marketing (domestic and export/import) of
agricultural products, and exploitation of fresh groundwater. Finally, future
investment in new irrigation projects would be subjected to availability of
water supplies and the priorities to be identified under the Water Sector
Investment Planning Study. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Government would establish a priority investment program for agriculture and
water sectors for the FY89-FY91 period of the Seventh Five-Year Plan in
accordance with the above principles with a view to assuring the required
funda. The program would be reviewed with the Bank prior to loan
effectiveness and the implementation of the first-year priority program in
October 1989.
B.3 Instituional) evelopment
72.    The adjustment program would also address institutional bottlenecks in
(a) the formulation of agricultural support prices; (b) rice and cotton export
operations; and (c) investment planning in the water sector.
73.     One of the key instruments that the Government has used to intervene
in the agricultural se'-tor is the pricing of agricultural inputs and outputs.
Over the years, the Government's agricultural pricing policy has been based on
the desire to: (a) maintain producer incentive; (b) ensure an adequate supply
of essential commodities at a reasonable price in urban and other food deficit
areas; and (c) shield the domestic market from interval and external price
instabilities. Since the declaration of the NAP, the Government's complex
network of input subsidy is gradually being phased out; wheat flour and sugar
rationing has been terminated; designated marketing zones for sugarcane,
wheat, rice and cotton have been lifted; and output support prices are
reflecting international price trends.
74.     The government's capability for analysing trends in crop prices,
production and marketing costs and farm budgets has been improved with the
establishment of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) in 1980 with the
assistance of the Bank. APCOM needs further strengthening to provide key
policy advice on agricultural output and input pricing and on the opetation of
agricultural commodity procurement and export agencies. In order to ensure
continuation of the policy reforms introduced since 1980 and to deepen the
Government's commitment to further adjustments in input and output pricing,
APCOM would need to enhance its administrative powers, post required staff,
introduce computerization, improve its methodology for pricing analysis, and
conduct staff training. Specific requirements in these areas are being
formulated and would be financed under the ongoing Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1755-PAR). Assurance was obtained from the Government that
APCOM's work program would be reviewed with the Bank annually starting in
October 1988, and all vacant posts in APCON would be filled by suitably
qualified staff by December 31, 1988. In addition, APCOM would also be
involved actively in recommending fertilizer (phosphate and potash) prices in
accordance with the agreed formula (para 63 and Annex V). A joint GOP and
Bank review of APCOM's methodology for price recommendations for selected
commodities would also be held annually.
75.     If Pakistan is to become a competitive producer of agricultural
conmodities for the international market, it must achieve greater efficiency
in production, improve the quality of the support services available to



-26-
farmers, and raise its marketing efficiency. As part of the adjustment
program under the Loan, the operation of Cotton and Rice Export Corporations
(CRCP and RECP), which account for 201 of total export earnings, would be
reviewed to identify methods of streamlining their activities and cost saving
measures. In light of the recently announced New Trade Policy that
liberalized the restriction of rice and cotton exports for the private sector,
the public export corporations would be required to review their marketing and
distribution strategy, if they expect to remain competitive. Toward this end,
the Government has agreed to launch a study which would review the role and
operations of the RECP and CECP, under the supervision of APCOM, to be
completed by February 28, 1989, and to review the findings and the proposed
action plan with the Bank by April 30, 1989. The Government has issued
letters of invitation for proposals to short-listed firms.
76.     A key institutional improvement feature proposed for the water sector
under the adjustment program is the establishment of Water Sector Planning
Cells in the Provincial Planning and Development Departments, and
strengthening the Water Resources Sectica of the Ministry of Planning and
Development and WAPDA's Planning Division. One of the principal
recommendations of the RAP that revi.ned unfulfilled was the establishment of
appropriate organizations for planning water sector investments at the
provincial level. Despite the successful implementation of water sector
investments in the past 20 years, the absence of integrated planning of the
nation's surface and groundwater resources in coordination with provision of
agricultural services is a major lacuna in current plan formulations.
Moreover, it leads to the use of ad hoc criteria to select competing
investments at the federal and provincial levels. To address these
institutional weaknesses, a Water Sector Investment Planning Study, referred
to in para 71, would be carried out by the Government under UNDP financing and
the Bank has been designated as the executing agency. The study is expected
to commence in August 1988 and to be completed in one year. The
recommendations of the study would be reviewed in a tripartite (GOP/UNDP/Bank)
meeting in August 1989, and an action plan would be formulated for
implementation.
PART V. THE PROPMSED LOAN
A. Obieotives
77.     The proposed Loan is the first agricultural sector adjustment
operation in Pakistan. In the context of its overall macroeconomic dialogue
and project lending operations, the Bank has been stressing the need for key
policy reforms in the agricultural sector. Notwithstanding the appreciable
growth achieved by the economy since 1980, particularly in agriculture,
Pakistan must now make every effort to sustain a 52 rate of growth and
transform agriculture into a competitive activity within a global framework.
In addition, it must diversify its crops to be able to withstand external
market pressures faced by its traditional export commodities-cotton and
rice-and promote efficient import substitution for oilseeds, which accounts
for about US$0.3 billion of imports annually. The Government is determined to
adopt the required policy instruments to achieve the sector's long-term
objectives. The proposed Loan would support the policy agenda described in



-27-
Part III. Following a series of discussions with the GOP since February 1984,
an appraisal mission visited Pakistan in July 1987 to finalize the program to
be pursued under the Loan. A Policy Statement (Annex VI) signed by the
Secretary, Economic Affairs Division, Government of Pakistan, reaffirms the
main elements of the adjustment program. Negotiations were held in Washington
DC during March 7-11, 1988 with the GOP delegation headed by Mr. M. Riyazul
Raque, Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs Division.
B.EFnancin
78.    Pakistan's average annual import bill for agricultural products and
inputs is about US$1.2 billion or 20S of its total value of imports. Imports
for the agricultural sector, principally fertilizers and chemicals, would be
financed upto US$199 million during FY89 and FY90. The balance of the loan,
US$ 1.0 million, is earmarked for the water charges assessment and collection
study. The continued rapid growth of fertilizer offtake has created
significant shortfalls in the domestic supply, with the result that the
Government has resumed imports of nitrogenous fertilizer in FY88. In
addition, about 851 of phosphate and 1002 of potash requirements are imported
annually. The total fertilizer import bill in FY88 is estimated at US$200
million. While a significant portion of loan proceeds is expected to finance
fertilizer imports, other agricultural imports such as insecticides/
pesticides, and specialized equipment and machinery would also be eligible for
financing.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
79.     Fertilizer and other agricultural imports would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank's
procurement guidelines. Bidding documents, including notices to suppliers,
bid evaluation, and draft contracts, would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Consultants for the water charges study would be selected in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency". Allocation of loan proceeds between
agricultural imports and consultant services is shown below:
Amount
FY1989    FY1990
-(US$ million)-
Agricultural Imports                             99.0      100.0
Consultant Services                               1.0
Total                                           100.0      100.0
Disbursement.
80.     Disbursement for eligible expenditures under the Loan would be on the
basis of 1001 of the CIF value of imports. A Special Account (SA) with an
initial amount of US$10.0 million would be established in the National Bank of
Pakistan and payments would be made directly to suppliers from the SA. Prior
to making the first payment, the importing agency would submit to the Bank a



-28-
draft contract for clearance. The SA would be replenished monthly based on
full documentation for the amounts utilized. The proposed Loan would be fully
disbursed in two years, and the Closing Date is set at June 30, 1990. A
two-year disbursement period for the Loan is appropriate, given the nature of
the products to be procured.
- . Aecounts and Audit
81.     The Fertilizer Import Department (FID), in the case of fertilizer
imports, and the Trading Corporation of Pakistan (TCP) for other imports,
would maintain separate accounts and records of all transactions under the
Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Six months after the end
of each fiscal year, the Program Steering Committee (PSC) (para 82) would
submit to the Bank a fully audited consolidated account of the proceeds of the
Loan. The accounts would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank.
E. Progam Adianistration
82.     Given the diversity of the adjustment program, the GOP would establish
a high-level Program Steering Committee (PSC), to be chaired by the Secretary
of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC). The membership
of the committee would include representatives of the Ministries of Finance,
Planning and Development, Water and Power, and Commerce. In addition, the
Provincial Planning and Development Departments, APCOM, FID and TCP would also
be standing members of the PSC. The PSC, assisted by a Program Coordinator
(PC), woulds have overall responsibility for implementing the agreed program.
It would ensure that the timetable set for the various activities would be met
and it would take appropriate measures to rectify delays. Program Directors
(PDs) woulo be designated in: (a) NW&P for the SCARP Transition Program and
the water charges study; (b) FID for fertilizer procurement and assessment of
demand and supply situation; (c) TCP for imports of other agricultural inputs;
and (c) APCOM for monitoring the fertilizer subsidy removal schedule and the
Rice and Cotton export operation studies. The PDs would submit quarterly
reports to the PSC for review at its quarterly meetings. A consolidated
six-monthly report, including minutes of the PSC meetings, would be submitted
to the Bank by the PC. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the
PSC would be established, and a senior official to act as PC, and PDs
designated prior to Loan effectiveness.
F. Tranche Release
83.     The proceeds frbm the proposed Loan would be made available for
withdrawal in two equal tranches. The conditions of Loan effectiveness and
tranche release are as follows:
(a) Prior to Effectiveness: First Tranche. The GOP would: (i)
3stablish a priority investment program for agriculture and water
sectors for FY89-FY91 period of the Seventh Five-Year Plan, to be
reviewed with the Bank (para 71); and (ii) announce the
establishment of PSC and designate a senior official as PC and PD8
in each of the participating federal ministry and agency (para 82).



-29-
(b) Prior to Release of Second Tranche. Satisfactory progress on the
monitorable program described in Part III above would be the basis
for releasing the second tranche. The second tranche would be
released, subject to:
(i) the attainment of the target reductions in phosphate and
potash economic subsidies (para 63 and Annex V);
(ii) adoption of measures to rationalize the system of allocating
imported fertilizer between public and private distributors,
with a view to increasing the share of the private sector
(para 64);
(iii) implementation of the agreed recommendation under the water
charges assessment and collection study (para 67);
(iv) implementation of the first-year priority investment program
for agriculture and water sectors (para 71).
(v)  implementation of the agreed recommendations of the Rice and
Cotton export operations study (para 75);
G.. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
84.    The policy reform program supported under the Loan would have a major
resource mobilization impact, help to improve the management of water
resources, and commit the required resources for priority investments, and
introduce institutional improvements. By phasing out the remaining economic
subsidies on phosphate, potash and fertilizers, the Government would release
substantial resources for highly desirable programs. According to the
estimated fertilizer imports during the execution of the two-year program, the
annual savings from subsidy reduction is estimated at US$20.0 million. In
addition, the impact on the budget would be higher from shifting imports of
fertilizer under bilateral arrangements to competitive procurement. If the
Government were to allow imports of MOP fertilizer, this would also generate
an estimated foreign exchange savings of about US$6.0 million annually.
Improvements in water charges assessment and collection would also generate an
estimated US$ 10.0 million per year.
85.     Another important source of fiscal savings is the privatization of
public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas. The twin benefits of
privatization stem from (a) the reduced budgetary requirements for O&H and the
replacement of existing public tubewells; and (b) an assured supply of
irrigation water in a timely manner and improved control of the water table.
It is estimated that the net savings for the budget due to privatization of
the existing stock of tubewells over an eight-year period would be about
US$300.0 million in 1987 prices.



-30-
86.     The effect of policy adjustment measures on two critical production
inputs-fertilizer and water-are not likely to have an adverse effect on
production and income. First, the gradual alignment of domestic prices of
phosphate and potash fertilizers with international price trends, would induce
growers to improve efficiency of fertilizer use and would encourage the
support service delivery agencies to sharpen their technical recommendations
to farmers. Wheat production in Pakistan absorbs 55t of the total fertilizer
offtake. The average wheat yield increase required to meet the full economic
cost of phosphate and potash fertilizers are less than half a percent per
year, which compares with the historical 22 annual yield increases.
87.     The implication of privatizing public tubewells for: (a) non-tubewell
owners and small farmers in terms of access to tubewell water; and (b)
drainage through control of the water table, does not appear to have adverse
consequences. Although 502 of existing private tubewells are owned by farmers
holding farm sizes greater than 25 acres, tubewell owners are selling water to
neighboring farmers. The marginal value of assured supplementary irrigation
is so high that small farmers buy irrigation water from neighboring tubewell
owners. Considering different farm size intervals, tubewell ownership -waries
from about 6S to 202 of total farmers, whereas tubewell usage varies froa
about 202 to 40% of total farmers. In general the price of privately pumped
water is higher than the subsidized SCARP tubewell deliveries. In recent
years, tubewell ownership by small farmers has been promoted tv _ae
availability of small fractional-capacity tubewells, the expansion of rural
electrification networks, and credit facilities by the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). With respect to the performance of
private tubewells in controlling the water table at desirable depths, the
SCARP Transition program would ensure the replacement of SCARP tubewell
pumpage by small-capacity private tubewells.   The preliminary indication from
the ongoing SCARP Transition Pilot Project suggests that farmers' response to
the concept of privatization has been favorable wherever the incentive package
comprising electrification and credit are assured.
Risks
88.     The adjustment program supported under the Loan does not entail a new
agenda for the Government but demands a firm commitment and action program on
policy declarations many of which are already agreed and under implementation.
Hence there are no major risks. It is conceivable that the reduction of
fertilizer subsidies in some years may lag behind the agreed annual targets.
A possible scenario for such an outcome is that, in the even; of unexpected
price hikes in the international market, the economic prices might rise
significantly above the anticipated trend price. Under such circumstances,
the Government may be restrained from large price adjustments to effect the
target subsidy rate reductions. The proposed formula for computing the
reference economic price (para 63 and Annex V) is designed to smooth out
annual price fluctuations and would minimize the risk of significant price
increases.
89.     A possible risk for SCARP Transition is that implementation could be
delayed if there was poor coordination among the various agencies--WAPDA,
Provincial Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, ADBP, and local



-31-
administrative units. Emerging lessons from the Pilot Project would guide
future Transition Projects in designing appropriate and effective
Implementation arrangements. Moreover, owing to positive budgetary impact,
the SCARP Transition program is strongly supported by both federal and
provincial governments. The potential for significant savings and for
shifting resources to high priority productive investments has induced the
provincial authorities to ensure the success of the transition program.
PART VL RECOMNMENDATION
90.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President



-32-
ps;    ni  mci                                           htw~ SF:hl
-ms 1
1b1137    1tSll htIS.)    10                                                                               Pap      ldts
1w  Pp Caetas Wto            335                                                                   kw P         rpud    *1   3W
I 3wu iO m h.iIa et                                   9 Grekk mm Mt
linn gwut vias dam)                                   (#Fe Comm    in kwta)
194     197     393     "a       113     3937          1-73 197345 lim            393      twog
arm   111                      two't g.g.  1 .   IZ0 1.  *          -.   15.-              5.5      .    -.         . 
54t l3g5d tam                 7.4     *.1    19.2      *.    104      1.                                  .        .
incdta                       3.2   3Ll.     2.          .32.          21.2              4.7     2.3     3.3      4` 
ltd                          3.1    19.9    22.4    2.        2.3    2 3                1       7.      w.3     9.        9.4
to0 *:Cb Usiatwl             134 134   14.3   4.3    I5.      1.5      11               4.2     I3      9.3     7.5       7.9
Smac                         21.     31.2    41.9    4.5    42.1    42.2                Li      4        7.2     eJ       1.1
low co Wa e-L.                          -IA    -124   -12.1   -4.5         A..                      .. ;. ..
a.w   . U               3.5    12.4    12.5    3.4    1.  1 3u.4                  4.5      4.2     3.3 34.1         14.9
1w        if Ws               1. U3 1.          1 241   .4    2.4   23LS               -1.3     9.1     5.7      0.6      4.9
Total   11it                   3LS   102.0   111.4   12.1 3A9.5   151.3                    LI      13       S      4.4       1.2
Totd CesUt                  31.9      3.9    9I    9S.        2.L    69.              4*.      1.5     5.5      4.1      U.
privat Cuuamtis           7LI    73.3   I3I    ILI    0.5 eu          .              4.3     1.1      5.      3o       4.5
_oval It      s           10.1    31.4    10.0    12.2    1.2    32.                 1.2     4.0       9t    1.1      10.
_*s uaic blmtmolt            21.5    I2.      3       11.1    IL     *7.2              1.4     U.       7.5     1.2     3.5
Fias  laust_t             21.3    11.4    174      33.01    IL5    1L7              -1.4     6.7      LS      7.3     32.
0 pas3tS                   L.       3.2 0.          1.3     1.7      1.4              ..      ..
us Snc litaviq                  13.     13.1     1.9      4.7     7.2    10.4              1.6    -1S    13    24.0         3S3
iii Patsr bow                -0.4    -1.3    -1.2    -1.4    -.3    -L.0                 ..      ..
ut Csrt nrh s                  ..     2.3      7.9     3.4     0.5     7.3                           ..       ..
Oms  _ua                          ..    11.1    13.      11.7    1LI    II                  .4     5      10.0    33.2      1.3
In  illis  of Ll. cItU                  1973    I0    1W In        3      MWO
(a todut ltms    -  -                                   -  -  -
--   m111  P111  t          301.O   £4.0   23.O   3          331.0   317.0 m.o                  5.        .1     7.1      7.5
coitb to lwt                 20.     3.      2t9.     27.0    3.0    44.O               1.5     2.7     2.      31.2     24.9
?Son of TrAle Ulstiw          4.0      6O   eL0   -3e         3IL    -17.0               ..      ..
sr    uste bw               30.9   1.    2.    313.    32.0   3                                   .2      1      1.0     3.
&M  1a11mad Prot            35.0   159.    232.0   320.0   362.0   371.                 5.      L4      1.4      7.2      9.
;- b mua  lcul              109.0   14.0   33.0    33.    330    319.                   4.9     LI.2    L.9      5.4     10.3
* 10a I-                            -Isilatl1  St. (I.
t. Pria eIs ca                  1930    3W      1933    I            1931    two       1W-ln  174   19354          19a     nIg
C1      Prless 13m3 6          11 103.    129.2 139 I.    114    157.7   1L3               4.7    12.      7.7     4.3       3.9
*dU ad  Priesm W5              300.0   1210   1339.    144.4   110.2   ID.9                4      12t      4.0     4.1       LI
lailcit W    flar              300.8   1L.   133        147.1   154.3   15.7              4.9    1         7.      4.9      3.
llrint   _dts. Wilat           300.0   SW      1M 13.    34.    1SA.4                     1.2    I2.4      3.3     5.4      2.1
L. 08w lagatns                       1wlU             13-3 
raU  SItn itnah                                                                               P * . iOiy "t
Pogatis                               LO               Li              L1
Law rm                                2.3              u               2.
km  latasa  I.e. #.C.                 2.2             3l               2.7
trivate Cuiti P.C.                    3.t              LS              1.9
Iowt Esttitpl
s tW 1"M   I W                       42                1.7             0.4
"pad  aiap  at.u
km ruutal Im                           *.              7.0            15.1
kM  husac Unitv                       4.3             -1.9             LI
MC  (pard   amal                          LO9            3.1              2.4
Owne of tiWd                    1935    197n    193      393    sob
Labwre lot                      -  -  -  -  -
*raltuei                     59.9    575 51 4.4        0.4    52.0
lIwso                        15.7    17.3    35.      11.0    ILS
Jgrnus                       24.4    24.4    29.7    31.4    29.4
ota                         1l0.    10.0   100.0  3I00.    101.0



an:  09ff   wm   non   Im   II    uw s"u  pmalm    a
0%   ml"   Ul   ali L3 6U   Olml  931 no  10.1    39 "g am
toxt  ttl  ADS   *t"    m         at   au uu1  11 o. WU"
tee          mi U   m      u.    m1     upni ti fps 010  "La"
P1    Mi    LU 933   ELi   93    U  m PIU 133 '6
ri-   n7-   re.   ri-   nt-   &1-          "WIN 110101 "MM
i     1.1   *'->*'t  **    ri    I';            S3"   I9*
i me  map t_
S   a u ll 
m-   m-    U-    t1    a.    U-               313#h341
91-   3.    1993ltl   391-  93                _ma  33. w
01nJ*  W     ml   oit   m11   mac
Si    II   t3-   Ut    65    I I                     _
95    33    91    13*   33    III           (I       - ' 11' a
e*    as    m       ue    ni    m             "       u
s   "   w   b   IU   S ~ owm _e                  tZM
n a.    *    u   _g    gr
'-3 A        UK            atLa tS WE           UP1SJ  Me
31    nt    S- I           la    6K            I  MU AU$ tt 
9      9    9       I3* .   199    19- n-  9-A
got-     -  8       I-  9t-  la            PM-   tSW" ti
m33   so    LOt    11    u6    at             62314 e   3J_
4     9I 1 u 9       Su   a   m                  i  *Iwi
zus    ni     e: £9         9     s              m  Sgap"
599n   es    UK    SACS   £1   eli           *    mi d"  qai-'j
um    UK    m        et   m       gt           93611.     S AM
3t9 puF t} SW1w  wSa  9m 
Isal  3SMS2        * 331 961P13 
91    not 0 41t*U    66   013        p35495*1196131
114   116  1us    1i   09to              Iwo 04 S3   1-
0391 Laumpi  j 4s 3D    916  9d3    _16    tug              ea14 to   13 ps"
tm       ow    at   WA          I~~ows aW sMawz MAm
fat  3l9    3  9a            1   OKI 5       *3  3P 1  P 1
19191  iou    WAS   6991   Wi   5915           ('111  111191    9           M        spit  T"Al now"1
tlet   wit   1      I'W4V            am   #m aiqt aum
$,PA~ ~ ~ #V    ftpw t1t M  m      16""
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~a   mlt  ml  at olt                               qm awl 4 al I
91   9t11  4O    1Om           U         lt  t        vim                                  1 t  t $ W
5161   191   931    36    M  ltl 36t fit ltt   at                    3     *1                          3 AM
t1t~~~1t mt 11    lta                        tt:t  flt, t4                            f  W
W1    Rt   Z~~t tE    in                                                                   m
IlKt   UtI  955   It    93a    an               9'13   Off  ('lt t 0l 1                          63 m*n "
-§g~~~~~a             "it   ml                                                           #%A    AN t    *  tl   
lit    Nil   W   ttt3 3Vtt          1          U:11   t-     911 2not3NI t
1 tit   in  2 t    at4     3               s1. 491  51    613 1    1                 t      4t J
Mt1363   t    P     t 11 I                      9 t .  1219la O1I 5151
tS   at                                     v         1    l"           t1t
au    th           t                         ol"t  1m    q1ot    fm
ta  _1 W                            kft0100,10I



Am    0111  1111?  pl    "la          41 1m M1   "I mIn ,
"1C   elS   ClM    %w1  i"5    nu   LI *  Ist
9VIi  et  331  "Wl    901   sit                  am  MANI IS
10   £11    10   911    We   £3.           £1 9U...   WiIM
d1            *       ,1 11   al3 l W91   &I*  5d1   N    2l  d *I
Wt'l  II      "It       t  "It   all            _ unw14  e I
UV19   11W9t  91t  Ul    WU1   *`t               dnN       11 t
Vi   £11   81    OrE   491    4910101 4011.
WO  111  W9  e1  ws  "la                            innws " a' I
O    el        3WI  5all   all1  l-*          S     lg o1*1
33101  3191  8*1  £111   3591  WIt           PU53lt66.51C
WI    Wr    DI       all   "61    161         P1 U           Ui  1 P 
03    Wi   913    WI   31    WI        P1R"Pi0UV
VS  VS  031  W9  WI l                            IUISIOW U1   ' 
£31    wit  sit  Wut  It'lt ir s                                I
3l    Wt   10         3I "1    1     LV o  16,0119K           11 I t
135  05    335    90    539   535    313~~~~;W  39k   ei-t.   w  Mi    set1%mWw
011    9101   9911   #1f    ma11 US              6      9      Ut-   3.    on    C-              nI        041091
lui   £11    91?1           also                 on     10       l    at    atL is    35316 *A14  (3
out    3t   9i   91         AM     ut            3f    "t    Si-   £-        i      t- 030 113u9             ila a
*        9    01      9     319    191             1. 91 a            t.ge    lii-   I1          BKSIqPl3Uilino
oo1    1"    IN1   13      9      It            pl-  Ig       gl-   of    Cl-        t 0"?   PP nI
et     u,t    Ut    5t    oS         t           [f.    I       .      a         et #I                  alo
OU     Iu            06 t          in            P   tt- £1-     1-   91    13-    "I              98101 81S
MU     I!   19   019  Sa            9                   U t1  991    3       itt    tit                ploWt"
out=  m  t        m      oil   to             u      at      l     tt    66       t               W" 0
tSStt  in    ua    ti    in                  at    aC    n        I      it     MI           soof"
aun em  "a"    m  up   e tt 1>m   m   a   on tr                                             uwreutHse
n t SMII   0t tS            "A      m            on    ID       a      tit    atVo                wnw    Pu^t"$ 
Om?    ml n 1W    9t3   M1   1an                 OK    9a1 U           II    IS    35              91         I 31 tV
galt w        em   a         s                     I    a      em                                             to
ie..  emrrtt   s         I I             S       1-1    41     4 1     £t         a1 *t1         O      M
£15   91-   513-         0*3              31    01    £1       Ii    Ii    91         iSilRSli M0S *'   1W
I1    UI1 ll-           $It              51    *t    t-l   t0    *'1 1      31-0  mtft
*  5.5    *93    lit.  i.e       vs    49    99    09    91    01                  u81133 51133tati.
*OM%1146 1111
V6    ge1   ni           9                11-   33      MI   t11    511    11             "Wmtq     wt S
'r#    fv-   rI?         #`               613   6Ill   351,   911t  919f   tit             3D9'9'3" 13
1391   U.K    Oil       3-OIl            6*391   9311   103     91   03I6 tit  3 '1-I  'l    8l t  "No" %e  1
"bi   out   06,         to . l- ski      %-%I   qu        f    16       i ol l1,1 PA ,)  *
1       am1 121304                           (it aN  9.0A1
I***_ .*@.@v_ oi................................................... _
to"                                    mm,g *   w  nl    P



-35-
ANNE 1U
ST?" ae S am UP ottrto:. to PWSIIUS
A. sTaTW? OW  S  LO"   Q ZM CMTS* ts   farsh 31. LOW-6 /aI. /4
Loan'                               .                                (_*5 04 caneiate
Crsdit   Flisal                                                                 %"&S-
i*QOer    Year                     Purpoose                    Sank      IDA    6airse
i 10 w' and credists 411V dlebursm                             90*.3  13 .2
714         e1           S6dastt Centrol & Reatsoin              -        70.0    57.0
677         3919          StainIty Central & MAcI *riaroo..      -        *0.0     u.s
1109        1901          vesattenat Trreaning                            25.4      u.i
I 157/AL    1963          Grain stw90e                                    32.0*    15.3
1 ize/A  1901  Aps*C%11%twel R   e thseh                     24_.0     A. A
24=    ~ 1902          Pootr*.eimiaiee4.                                          .
2172       s12            wesrstilluer Instry  hoabitstA         33.5 -            13.1
2247        t13           RerWvea nSitUaod"o   Facistlties       10.2               5.3
2324        1903          Pth SuS Nethe. a" Plpe1i.,             43*0              20.,
1229tg     I19            Irrietiten Syst_* Reabilatetien        -        40.0      4.0
I;43/4      1962          Soluchast&n `nr IrrS. 4 AVr.            .       14.0    12.2
1 2&/s      1902          Technical AssCI tance ,                          7.0      0.4
133         I963          L r Urb  Smsw_l|t                     1'.0    15.5
1350/S  1903  Pawlatien                                      LO10.0    13.5
1374/s      1903          Karchi Mot  S'S.,                      -        u.0      t3.0
1375/i      1903           oralth Drainage                                46.0    74.4
2351        1904           atrove Soleration                              -        20.9
2374        1964          SecOnd Teot ata b 1a 0"W.              30.0    -         It.$
2360        1904          Industrtal investmnt Credit            50.0    -         14.1
149s:       1*            tnOutrtal Invst_ t Credit              -        10.0    21.0
1444L6      19"4          Inte e  Hill Faing "v.                 -        21.0 12.0
14"04       194           Secan Tehical Asetance                 -         7.0      2.2
1467/1       Me           CeeIw Metor M*aaement                  -        44.5    44.5
1499%        9064         Secont Smlltusirse                     -  °.*    15.4
ISM2/&      1905          Left So*k Otf 011 Oran - Stage I               t10      197.0
IS          1966          Satuchstan Agricaltural letanrien      -         6.3      6.7
2499        1966 *mwli W l POW                                  100.0    -         90.9
16"14    1905          SecS'd Priwy adwdatis                  -        52.5    46.5
1_,          996          Second *"-ar Meter Nanagit"            -        34#.     35.0
2552        1965           nergly Smete Leo                    17_.0    -         7.4
2553        19t 6         Petrolom  Meaures jonsa vVent          Se.0     -        12.4
2355        1966          FWU  _NSI P                           100.0    -         99.4
2*46        194           tInduetrtal, Ivestment Crspt          146.0     -       124.1
1444        1904          I"dustral Invest_ent Creit             -         2.0      2.4
1*524L      196           Karashi 6s4eil Devpmen                          70.0    01.0
70.         1a            Sace  Vocational Trning                         40.2    4?.?
1493        196           WAR  Tramitien Pt lot                  -        10.0     9.6
19"         196           Apie. 0ev. s_n of Paksetan VI          -        ao       14.1
2693        1904          ^is. 0Sa.* Benke Pakisa  VI           18.0    -         141.0
2*90        196           got adu Gaines Ce                      90.0    -         90.0
2743        190?         T*  SNUistiene V                       100.0              S 66.0
1755/j      1967          Thtrd Technical Asditaetne             _         7.0     4.9
1742/5      190          ft.  asotene    IV                               42.1    45.7
162945 C    190?          Third Dtriwy Educetin                  -       145.0   154.3
27m         197           Powe Plant 5istiency                   70.0    -         4.
2314        1967          Fesvt Me iGe                          152.0    -        142.7
23"         1967          Third Smet  Indwties                   14.0    -         14.0
2342        190?          MOtiwy Eneg  Canwvatin                 21.0     -        21.0
2064        19            Ceome  t I sry   _be I  tnatien        94.0              94.0
1SM         196            esud terigatien systems _P W.                  P9      60.?
Total                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2490.0  24614.6  359.9
of which hn  bee repai _                                      1.?7    74-.1
Total e  utestandin11    2040.?
amount sld                                                     _
of dsch fas Dee rapd- --
Total 'e.w h1el by l tt/IDA                                    1911.3  23_0.?
Treotal Unduirved                                              1207.6   999.0  2204.4
1A  The status ef the proJects lited in Part A is ascribe  in a eagarate rQewr
en all Sank/iDA financial   reJacts in suhet&tiz  duicl to udated twice yearly
ad crculated to the UautAve OUrecter  n Aoril 30 and October 31.
/  LuClude the disbursed pWtienof loans and credits WhlSly er partly fer pro-
jectC SR the *ormer_ ret Pakistan ahcih have ne bee  taken hw hy Seanladsh.
, 10A Credits Oade the 6th and 7th R      Iehodlft* We denGminated an lURe. The
princiopa  and non-ef ftives Credits, ar shown in US3 equsavalet at th  time o
ngataatiens.  Disburse  amAnts are caste  at the oucune rate aplcable
an the transactin dates. Untdiersed easnte are valud dat thoe-actua" Parte
400laca0le On the data Of ts st*tmt.
"a Mt yet Wffctkvo.



-36-
Pae2
S. STATEMENT OF XFC IMVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1988)
inveatmat  Fiscal                                                         Loan EYi
n        mber,   Yar   Obltgar                  TIm  of  usin-ll5ion---
140         1958      Steel Corp. of              Roliled Steel
Pakistan                    Products               0.63          -           0.63
90          1S99      Adamjee tndustries          Textiles                0.7S          -          0.75
Ltd.
440/920     1962/65   Gharibwal Cement            Cement                  5.25         0.42        5.67
Industries Ltd.
4550-52/    1963/     PICIC                       oevelep"ent
7610-7611   69/75                                 Financing                -           3.52        3.52
870         1965      Crescent Jute Products      Textiles                1.84         0.11        1.95
910/5070/   1965/     Packages Ltd.               Paper Products         26.01         1.01       27.02
6150-51/    80/82
9280-81
1230-31     1967/76   Pakistan Paper Corp.        Paper                   5.38         2.02        7.40
Ltd.
1330        1969      Dawood Hercules             Fertilizers             1.00        2.92         3.93
Chemicals Ltd.
4570-73/    1979      Milkpak Ltd.                Food and Food
0410                                              Processing              2.40         0.41        2.81
4720-21/    1979      Pakistan Oilfields          Chemicals and
6060/6800             Ltd. and Attock             Petrochemicals         29.00         2.04       31.04
Refinery Ltd.
5060        19e       Fauji Foundation            Woven Polypropylene
sags                    1.78         -           1.78
984         1988      Fecto Cement                Cement and Con-
structien Material    20.66          -         20.66
n53         1987      Anglo-Suisse                Chemicals and
Petrochemicals           -          4.30         4.30
5080        1980      Premier Board Kills         Particle Board          2.70          -          2.70
Ltd.
97g9        1988      Millat                      Tractors                5.69          -          5.69
5760-61     1981      Habib Arkady                Food & Food Processing 3.15          0.16        3.31
6210        1982      Asbestos                    Cement                  3.50         0.51        4.01
6550-S2/    1983      Pakistan Petroleum          Chemical and
7610-11               Ltd.                        Petrochemicals        104.40         1.56      105.96
7500-7501   1985      National Bev.               Honey and Capital
Leasing Corp.              Market                  5.49         0.37        5.06
8220-8223   1986      Mart Gas                    Chemicals and
Petrochemicals        ".Al           -
Total Gross Comitments                           266.16        19.35      205.51
Less Cancellations. Terminations.
Repayments and Sales                        IEiao         . 3..5     1SO.75
TotAl CoM.Itments Now Held by IFC                 7.9L6        15.40 24.7n
Undisbursed (including Participants)              39.11         4,64        2Lan



-37-
AW=  III
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSIM  WAN
SUlPPIEMETARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Timo taken by GOP to prepare the project:          Six month,.
(b) Responsible Agency                                 Ministry of Agriculture
(c) First consideration by the Rank                    February 1984
(d) Date of Appraisal Mission                          November 1985 & July 1987
(e) Date of completion of negotiations                 March 11, 1988
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                      October 1, 1988
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank to carry out joint reviews of agreed policy measures.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche
GOP would (i) establish a priority investment program for agriculture
and water sectors for FY89-FY91 period of the Seventh Five-Year Plan
to be reviewed with the Bank; and (ii) announce the establishment of
a Program Steering Committee and designate a senior official as PC,
and PDs in each of the participating federal ministry and agency
(para 83).
(b) Conditions of Second Tranche Release
Satisfactory progress on the monitorable program described in Part
III of the PR would be the basis for releasing the second tranche.
The second tranche would be released, subject to:
(i) the attainment of the target reductions in phosphate and
potash economic subsidies (para 63 & Annex V);
(ii) adoption of measures to rationalize the system of allocating
imported fertilizer between public and private sector
distributors with a view to increasing the share of the
private sector (pars 64);
(iii) implementation of agreed recommendation under the water
charges assessment and collection study (pars 67);
(iv) implementation of the first year agreed priority investment
program for agriculture and water sectors (para 71); and
(v) implementation of agreed recommendations of the Rice and
Cotton export operations study; (para 75).



GMnAILf3~  SIYMAf.lIflWT 
A. Rswures Nobili,ation
Agreements Reache4
Topic and Issues                                Proposed Ation Proerm                                 to la  1nitorZd  A/
1. Fertilizer SubSidy. Fertilizer prices to        To clarify the main ambiguity, adopt            GOP has agreed to adopt the ecen oic
farmers are still subsidized despite previous      an economic subsidy definition based             subsidy definition. A forumla for
Banr/GOP agreements to rsmove the subsidy          on import parity; settle measurement             establishing reference international
by June 50, 1905. Those agreements were            questions. and fix a schedule for                prices and the auwal subsidy
ambiguous, nor was any schedule establish-         subsidy remval on phosphatic                     reductions agreed for all types of
ed for approaching the target date.                fertilizers (19) and potash                      phosphatic and potash fertilizers.
fertilizers (99S).
2.    Fertilizer Distribution Costs. The           leasures to rationalize the system of           UOP to review the system of imported fertili-
handling costs of the public distribution          fertilizer allocation with a view to             zer allocation with a view to reducino costs
organizations are greater than those of            increasing the share of private                  of marketing  nd distribution, and incresing
private sector. yet Government continues           sector distributors of lported                  the share of private sector. The stats
to require reserving a share of imported           fertilizer.                                      would be reviewed by July 1909.
fertiliser to be handled by such public
oroanizations.
5.   Irri eation ORM  Cost  becovery. Previous     Provinces to divest SCARP tube-                  UP has agreed to: (a) refrain frm replaings
Banr/GP Agreements provide for the removal of      wells in fresh groundwater                       deteriorated TWs for publiC opetion; (b) pro-
operations and maintenance subsidies by mid 1988   areas or replace by private tube-                hibit investments in nw alfs in fresh grouni-
in Sind Province and between 1990 and 1992 in      wells with a view to reducing                   water areas for public opation; Cc) prepre a
the three other provinces. Such subsidies to be   public budgetary burden of OLW                    Second SCARP Transition Project crising 1.8I0
removed by Increasing water rates or meking *other and improve the delivery of                      SCARP IWs in Punjab and 400 SCARP lWs In Sind by
appropriate financial arrangements-. These         irrigation supplies.                             June 30, 1989; to be Impl_nted In FY'904;  d)
agreements were clearly ambiguous. and no sche-                                                     follow up SCAP Transition projects to be Initi-
dules were established for meeting the target                                                       ated by Mar 31.1993; e) phase-out the reaning
dates. There has been little recent change In                                                       SCARP lIls: to determine the timfrin  a detailed
irrigation charges and no progress in defining                                                      inentory of existing SCARP l1 would be carried
*other appropriate financial arranguents                                                            out as part of preparation of Second SCA
Transition Project; (f) lunch a stdy to
improve water chrs  assessment and collection
to be completed by Mar 31 , 199; nd (g) adjust
water rates and/or dratnag cess to fill any
remaning 0  cost reovery gp ofter Improvnts
in assessment and collection of.Jter chags are
put in place (July ', 1992). and to _mintain 0UM
cost recovbry rates in real tera and to cover
additional  I expeniturs due to cn1issioning
new projects. The level of GI funding for
surface irrigation system and subsurfae draine
should be maintained at tihe FYU leel in ral
terms. The target date for full recovery would be
establishe  dpending on tbe si# of the recovery
shortftall outstanding on July 1, 1992.
o '^enanted in the Loan Agreement.



Page   2
BI. CsOMIt&n and Adennaev of Funding of the Pub ic Investnt Pr%arM
Tonic and Irsues                               Proosed Action Proerm
1.   full fundina for Ptiorities.  Past              Formulation of a priority program (FY89-91)      GOP would sublit to the Qank a prioritv
financial shortfalls have affected                   for agriculture and water sectors and             investaent proram for agriculture nd
implemantation of priority investmnts in            assure full funding requirements.                 water sectors covering the fY9-FM-l
agriculture and water sectors.                                                                        period of the Seventh Five-Year Plan in Oct
1988. The Implemntation of the first year
program would be reviewed In Oct 198
2.   Defermnt of Larue !rriaation ProiaCta.         Undertake large new irrigation projects           GOP has indicgted that fthe new Irrigation
Post Priority Plan included provision (even          only after resolution of the intcr-              Projects will only be taken up after the
though swall) for start-ups for certain major       provincial water allocation issue. estab-         resolution of the lnter-Provincial iWter
new irr1iation projects, *hich are not high         lisbent of water sector investment program.       alloecation lssue and the eareful appraisal
priorities until implementation performance In       and thorough appraisal of the individual         of these proje#ts. This oill be monitored
existing large projects has iwproved (which Is       proJects.                                         in Oct 1988 And Oct 1969. Th Water
partly a matter of full funding) and the inter-                                                       Sector Investment Plamuing Stud  twould be
provincial water allocation Issue is resolved,                                                        ready for discussion by Aupust 1969 and an
action plan prepared prior to second
tranche release.
C. Imnstitutional Imprawvunts
1. Sunprt Price formulatian. Price                  Phased adoption of I proved wethodology           GOP has agreed to prepare a work prokrae.
recom_endatIons are made on a single coimodity       by APCOO. enhanced computerization and            including training and technical assistance
basis with relatively higher weight siven to         staff training,                                  needs for APCO. An agreed wofr prorWm
changes in costs of production in the analytical                                                      would be put into effect by October 198.
work done by the Agricultural Prices Cox assion                                                       and its inploemntation would be jointly
(APCON).                                                                                              reviewed annually In October.
2. Cotton and Rice NarkeLino Costs, Given the        Examine the scope of work and cost               GOP has agreed that studiff should be
poor world market prospects for cotton and the       effectiveness of the CECP and RECP.              undertaken to extIni  operations of CECP
discouragins prospects for rice, the mrketing                                                         & RtCP. The studies to be completed by
costs incurred by the cotton and rice export Para                                                      February 23, 1969 and findings would be
statals (CECP and RECP) deserve close scrutiny to                                                      jointly review   and  ction program
ascertain the scope for reducing costs.                                                               agreed by April *0. 1969.
3. bter Sector Investment and Plannnc.              To establish provincial planning cells            GOP would initiato ileantation of agJred
Planming responsibility of investments in the water for water sector investments and                   recommendations wuOdr the iwatr Sector
sector by federal and provincial agencsies needs     strengthenino of WAPSA's Planning                 Investment Plaunin  Study referred to In
to be strengthened.                                 Division and Water Resources Section              3.2 above, to establish provincial planning
of the Plannng and ODevelopment Ministry,        cells and strengthen the existing Federal
water Sector PlanUin Institutions by
September 19".
/ Covenanted in the Loan Agreement.



-40-
ANNEZ V
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTNEWNT LOAN
Foemuta for Derivation of Eeonomie Subosly
1.       This note sets out a methodology for deriving the economic
reference price and the cost adjustments required to calculate the rate of
economic subsidy for fertilizer products.
2.       In order to smooth out the effects of short-term market
fluctuation the estimate of the c.i.f. price (Pf) would be obtained as
the moving average of actual (Pt-,), current (Pt) and forecast market
prices (Pt,).-
Hence:
Pt = P *-l + Pt + Pt,+
3
3.       In year t, the rate of economic subsidy (St) for any fertilizer
product would be defined as:
St n Pr ! PL X 100%
Pr
Where P. for commonly traded products 1/ is the c.i.f. price
(Pf) adjusted for domestic market and handling costs. Pd is
the domestic retail price.
4.       The internal marketing and handling cost would be estimated from the
actual average cost of marketing and distributing the product for the previous
year adjusted by an appropriate index of domestic inflation.
1/ These include urea, DAP, TSP and MOP, and any other products for which
international market prices can be conveniently obtained. For other
products, the costs can be derived from the unit nutrient price of the
commonly traded fertilizers.



-41-
AMX V
Page 2
S.       For a past year, the actual c.i.f. price paid or average of the unit
price for all contracts awarded on a competitive basis would be applicable. l/
For future years, a forecast of the c.i.f. price based on previous suppliesr
would be required. The World Bank's forecasts, or a composite of independent
foreasts could also be used as basis for determining future c.i.f. prices.
6.       The base year for programing the subsidy removal for phosphate and
potash fertilizers is July 1987. The schedules for phasing out the subsidies
bave been estimated below for selected fertiliser products.
Oct 1988    Oct 1989    Oct 1990    Oct 1991
DAP                      25           17           9           0
NP                       45           33          20           0
SOP                      60          52           44          36 a/
NPK                      S0           32          16           0
TSP                      30           20          10           0
a/ Remaining subsidy to be phased out by 1995 at the rate of 9 percentage
point per annum.
L/ If the product is normally obtained from several sources then some
weighted average of the relevant c.i.f. prices would need to be used.



-42-
ANNEX VI
Page   1
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
POUICY STATEBMET ON THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Recent Development Performance
1.       Since the start of this decade, Pakistan's economy in general and the
agricultural sector in particular have undergone major structural changes
resulting in sustained high growth rates in incomes and improved standard of
living. While population bas been growing at the rate of about 32 per annum,
per capita GDP has been increasing at about 42 per annum. Agriculture's
contribution to the overall performance of the economy has been equally
notable. Today, the agricultural sector supports 702 of the population,
employs 522 of the labor force, accounts for 55S of export earnings, and
generates marketable surplus production to meet the nation's basic food and
fiber requirements.
2.       With the exception of the two successive crop failures in FY84 and -
FT85 due to drought and pest attacks, the achievements hitherto of the
agricultural sector during the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-88) have been
remarkable in term of production, investment and physical targets. Compared
to 1982/83, the base year for the Sixth Plan, agricultural GDP in real terms
increased by 242 by 1986/87. The total area under the major crops (wheat,
cotton and rice) also increased by 5.51 during the same period. As a result,
the economy has attained self-sufficiency in wheat, and generated growing
export surpluses of cotton and rice. These achivements were made possible by
combination of appropriate production incentives given to the farming
comunuity, a shift in public investment priorities toward fast-gestating and
low-cost schemes, increased participation of the private sector in input
delivery and groundwater development, and improved project implementation
capability of the public sector. During this period, GOP has phased out input
subsidies for pesticide, seed, tractor hire and nitrogenous fertilizer. To
maintain adequate returns to the farmer, support prices for agricultural
output have oeen adjusted upward and reflect comparable world market prices.
The Government has also replaced the wheat rationing system by a modified
system of releasing wheat at fixed prices to flour mills and traders without
any quota or restrictions.  This, apart from reducing subsidies, will also
ensure stable food prices throughout the year in all parts of the country.
3.       Investments in the agricultural and water sectors during the four
years of the Sixth Five-Year Plan have resulted in increased water
availability by 71, irrigated area by 3.2 m acres, and fertilizer offtake by
302, as compared to the 1982/83 base year.
Seetor Obectives
4.       As stated in the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the objectives for the
agricultural sector are to:



-43-
ANNEX VI
Page   2
(a) accelerate the modernization of the'agricultural sector to
achieve a growth rate substantially higher than the population
growth rate so that the sector can generate resources for
sustained development of the economy with a high degree of
self-reliance;
(b) increase agricultural productivity so as to realize future
increases in agricultural production mainly from vertical
expansion effectively over-riding the limitation on area
expansion imposed by limited irrigation water supplies;
(c) consolidate self-sufficiency in grains and make determined effort
to regain self-sufficiency in sugar production and reduce
dependence on edible oil imports;
(d) diversify agricultural production and rural employment
opportunities by giving more attention to high value products
like fruits, vegetables, oilseeds, meat, milk and poultry, and
increasing their share in the agricultural GDP;
(e) improve support price system and market mechanism in order to
make the system more effective, especially for oilseeds, pulses
and horticultural crops;
(f) bring about a major transformation in the productivity of the
livectock sector to meet the growing demand for milk and meat and
to c3ntribute to the well-being of less developed areas;
(g) evolve an integrated program for developing barani, riverine and
mountainous areas as a part of a long-term program to arrest
environmental degradation and conserve the country's physical
resources of forests, land and water; and
(h) strengthen the institutional support and provide incentives for
generating export surpluses by encouraging crop specialization in
the areas/regions which have comparative cost advantages and
resource endowment.
In order to meet these objectives, the Government plans to undertake a series
of policy and institutional reforms supported by a larger investment program
on the lines recommended by the National Commission on Agriculture in its
report submitted to the Government in April 1988.
Investment in Aoriculture
5.       In the Sixth Five Year Plan, Rs 39 billion were allocated for the
agricultural and water sectors. Although this represented an increase of 762
in nominal terms over the Fifth Plan, the agriculture/water sectors' share in
the public sector development program was to remain roughly unchanged at 182.
In agriculture, particularly large increases were allocated to extension and
research, public grain storage, mechanization, livestock, forestry and
fisheries. In the water sector, particular emphasis was given to investments



-44-
ANNEX VI
Page   3
to rehabilitate the deteriorated irrigation systems, relieve waterlogging and
salinity problems, and increase the efficiency of water use through on-farm
and command water management programs . The unchanged share oi the
agriculture/water sectors called for in the Plan reflected the Government's
policy to encourage greater private sector participation as against public
provision of inputs (e.g., in improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides), and
to rationalize expenditures to obtain output gains from existing
infrastructure (irrigation systems rehabilitation and water managment
projects), rather than undertaking major new capital investments.
6.       During the first four years of the Sixth Plan, the rates of
implementation iu agriculture and water sectors were somewhat slower than
envisaged in the Plan.  In addition to overall resource constraints, the
favorable increase in private sector activities, shortfalls in the wheat crop
reducing the need for storage, and the cost escalation/high interest charges
prolonging the completion of ongoing water projects, led to implementation
lags. In response to the under-fulfillment of the initial investment plan
targets, the Government undertook a major review of the investment program and
identified a core program in both the agriculture and water sectors which
called for increased allocation in the final three years of the revised plan.
The provisional plan implementation assessment in FY86-87 indicates a
turn-around compared to previous years and the allocation for the FY87-88
would sustain the improved performance. The estimated rate of implementation
for the Sixth Plan is expected to reach 771 in agriculture and 862 in the
water sector as against 90S for the Plan as a whole. Under these
circumstances, the thrust of Government policy towards increased private
sector participation and improved utilization of existing assets has been
maintained. Implementation rates are expected to be relatively high in areas
like agriculture education (1821), extension (1311), research (1281),
irrigation (1041), water management (117X), and relatively low in areas where
private sector role has improved, viz., public storage (341), improved seeds
(591), plant protection (541), and mechanization (771). Only in drainage
(821) and flood control (411) has the performance been substantially lower
than the Government would like to have seen. Even so, in the past two years,
performance in drainage project implementation has improved significantly and
we would expect this trend to continue.
7.      The shifts in Government's investment priorities that has
characterized the Sixth Plan will be continued during the Seventh Plan in the
light of recommendations of the National Commission on Agriculture (NCA). The
Commission has proposed a comprehensive but practical agricultural strategy
for the next 12 years, upto the year 2000, with specific recommendations for
the Seventh Plan period (1988-1993). The main goals of the agricultural
strategy recommended by the Commission are to consolidate self-sufficiency in
grains, make a determined effort to regain self-sufficiency in sugar and
pulses, reduce dependence on the edible oil imports and accelerate the
modernizations of the agricultural sector to achieve a growth of 5% per
annum-substantially higher than the population growth rate, so that the
sector can generate resources for the sustained development of the economy
with a high degree of self-reliance. For achieving the desired increase in
crop yields, the proposed strategy would extend the use of available



-45-
ANNEX V1
Page 4
technologies for crops like wheat, cotton and rice to a larger proportion of
producers and to develop improved technology packages for sugarcane, maize,
coarse grains, oilseeds, pulses, fruits and vegetables and extend the use of
these packages to a ignificant number of farmers.
8.       The Commission has laid special emphasis on achieving agricultural
growth with social justice. A series of proposals have been made to secure
the whole-hearted cooperation of farmers in the process of development.
Special attention has been given to the problems of the small farmers and
landless rural households.  The Commission has recommended several measures to
improve living conditions in rural areas.
9.       A major thrust of the Commission's recommendations is the emphasis on
conservation and development of soil and water resources. For this purpose,
the Commission has proposed improved arrangements to plan, coordinate and
finance several inter-related activities in the fields of watershed
management, range management and for the development of barani, arid and
riverian areas.
10.      The NCA has also recognized the crucial role of private investment in
agriculture which is presently of the order of Rs 7 to 8 billion a year. It
has recommended that this should be raised to about Rs 17 billion a year
during the Seventh Plan. For this purpose, the credit availability thrust be
increased substantially from about Rs 16 billion in 1986-87 to Rs 46 billion
in 1992-93. Of this amount, Rs 16 billion would be needed for development
purposes.
11.      The investment priorities of th Seventh Plan will be based on these
recommendations and the proposed Water Sector Investment Planning Study.
After the approval of the Seventh Plan, a three-year priority investment
program for agriculture and water sectors will be formulated and their funding
for the first two years will be reviewed with the Bank in October 1988 and
October 1989.
Resouroe Mobilizaton
12.      During the past few years, shortage of budgetary resources have
constrainted the expansion of public sector programs.  The Government has been
attempting to mobilize greater resources through the expansion of tax
revenues, improved cost recovery for goods and services provided through the
budget or through public enterprises and encouraging the increased private
sector participation in a number of areas. The agriculture sector is expected
to contribute to these efforts through gradual reductions in the subsidy on
fertilizers and the phasing out of public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas.
Reduction of FertlizerSbidy
13.      Until recently, it has been the Government's policy to encourage
fertilizer use through price as well as non-price measures such as
dissemination of knowledge and credit. This policy has been very successful
in Increasing the use of fertilizer and spreading the knowledge of its
benefits. The Government recognizes that i: is now time to shift emphasis



-46-
ANNEX VI
Page   5
towards greater reliance on non-price measures. It is the Government's
intention over the four to eight years to piase out the remaining economic
subsidy on phosphatic and pottassic fertilizers, i.e., the difference between
the domestic selling price and the import parity equivalent, suitably smoothed
to remove the effect of short-term fluctuations. In 1986, the Government
liberalized the market for nitrogenous fertilizers. Selling prices are no
longer fixed and imports, hitherto limited to a public sector agency, have
been opened up to the private sector. Together, these measures will prevent
the re-emergence of any subsidy on nitrogenous fertilizers except periodically
on a temporary basis, if world prices rise above their medium term trends. As
for the remaining non-nitrogenous fertilizers, the Government's policy is to
remove subsidies through price increases and expanding private sector
participation in marketing which will reduce costs. Towards this objective of
sustained annual reductions in the unit economic subsidy, the Government has
recently reduced the unit economic subsidy rate for the following fertilizer
products: DAP from 291 to 25%, TSP from 412 to 401, and SOP from 77S to 731.
The remaining unit economic subsidy for all phosphate and complex fertilizers
will be phased out by the end of four years, and SOP by eight years, in equal
annual percentage point reductions, provided that international prices of
fertilizers do not rise significantly above medium-term trends. Subsidy
removal will be effected through annual price increases, marketing and
incidental cost savings, and rationalizing the allocation of growing share of
imzorted fertilizer distribution between public and private sectors with a
view to reducing costs of marketing and distribution. In addition, the
Government will continue to reduce subisdies by finding cheaper and equally
effective substitutes for SOP. Progress towards elimination of economic
subsidies would be monitored in annual reviews by the Government and the Bank
beginning in October 1988.
14.      With fertilizer use now more widely accepted in Pakistan, information
regarding the amounts and mixes appropriate in different local and soil
conditions has taken an added importance. Towards this objective, the
Government would continue to strengthen the soil fertility program in order to
develop appropriate recommendations for farmers.
O&M Cost Recover of hrfgation Systems
15.      Pakistan's most valuable productive asset is its water resources.
The need to provide adequate funds to properly operate and maintain the
irrigation systems is fully recognized at all levels of Government. Since
1983-84, the O&M budget, which absorbs 9t of the provincial non-development
budgets, has been growing at an annual rate of about 221 per annum. However,
the revenue collected from irrigated agriculture beneficiaries has not been
commensurate with the expenditure levels. The GOP is fully convinced that the
leading source of the irrigation O&M expenditure subsidy is the uneconomic
operation of the public tubewells in fresh groundwater areas. These TWs were
originally installed primarily for the purpose of arresting the rising water
table and utilizing the discharge for supplemental irrigation. Having
provided relief to waterlogged areas, the continuing operation of these TWs is
a major fiscal burden which can be replaced by small capacity private TWa,
efficiently operated by private farmers.



-47-
ANNEX VI
Page   6
16.      With the assistance of the Bank, a pilot project to examine feasible
ways of shifting from public to private tubewells, is currently under
implelentation in Punjab Province. The incentive package includes provision
of the electricity network, financial support for drilling for diesel TW8,
grace period of up to three years for credit repayment, the choice of flat
rate electric tariff and exemption from canal water charges for a limited
period. Although it is too early to gather the lessons from the pilot
project, the farmers' response to the incentives provided has so far been
encouraging.
17.      Towards the objective of promoting the role of the private sector in
the economy, the Government will not undertake any investments for new or
replacement TWa in FGW areas for public operation except for the completion of
the two ongoing externally assisted projects in South Rohri and Ghotki areas
of Sind Province. In addition, preparation of a Second SCARP Transition
Project, covering the remaining 1,800 TWs in the SCARP I area of Punjab, and a
SCARP Transition Pilot Project covering about 400 TWa in the North Rohri area
of Sind Province, would begin shortly to be completed by June 30, 1989.  In
connection with the Second SCARP Transition Project feasibility studies, the
Government would also carry out a detailed inventory of all SCARP TWa in fresh
groundwater areas to determine the timeframe for phasing out the remaining
stock of SCARP TWa. Subject to the feasibility studies, implementation of the
two projects will commence by FY90 and would make a significant contribution
towards the Government's objective of completing the privatization of public
TWa in Punjab and Sind. In this connection it is expected that follow-up TW
privatization program covering the remaining public TWa in Punjab and Sind
would be initlated by March 1993.  The terms of reference for these follow-up
projects would be completed and discussed with the World Bank during the
implementation of SCARP I and North Rohri Transition Projects. For the South
Ro4ri and Ghotki projects, full cost recovery through water charges would be
achieved, or TW operations in these areas would be transferred to the private
sector by the year 2000.
18.      The Government's cost recovery target would focus on the O&M costs of
surface irrigation and subsurface drainage systems. To this end, the
Government has commissioned a study covering all the four provinces which
would examine the potential for closing the gap between water charges and O&M
costs through improvements in assessment and collection procedures. The
study, the terms of reference for which has been issued would be completed by
Narch 31, 1989. Following its completion, a joint Government/Bank review
would be held to draw an action program for implementation. Any outstanding
recovery shortfall following the implementation of the water charges
assessment and collection action program (July 1992) would be filled by water
charges and/or drainage cess adjustments. The full recovery target date would
be established depending on the outstanding recovery shortfall on July 1,
1992. Once full recovery is achieved, water rates would be adjusted
periodically to cover additional costs arising through inflation or completion
of new projects. For Baluchistan and NWIP, the water rate structures similar
to Sind and Punjab would be applied. This would achieve full cost recovery of
O&M of schemes that are part of the Indus Basin system, but would not be
expected to achieve similar recovery rates from the high cost schemes located
in more inaccessible areas.



-48-
ANNEX VI
Page 7
Institutioa Develolpment
19.      To sustain the development momentum achieved hitherto and to prepare
for the emerging challenges in maintaining adequate producer incentives,
meeting the competitive export mareets and planning investment priorities in
the water sector, the Government has agreed with the Bank to undertake the
following programs.
Domestic Snuor9t Pice Formulation
20.      Since the early 1980s, support prices formulation for the major crops
have been determined by using various criteria including the export and import
parity prices for various commodities. It is recognized that there is no one
international price and that the world prices, in many cases, are highly
volatile and change substantially even over a short span of time. However, on
a trend basis, the support prices of different commodities presently has been
around such trend-lines. In determining the prices due consideration has been
given to 'average' farmer's cost of production to ensure appropriate
incentives. The taxation of agriculture through low prices has almost ended
as the support prices for the crops (wheat, irri-rice, and cotton), as
mentioned above, has been brought in line with the 'international' trend-line
prices with the exception of basmati rice where Pakistan is the major
international producer. The prices of sugarcane are presently higher than the
international prices because of depressed sugar prices due to the subsidized
exports by some major exporting countries. The creation of the Agricultural
Prices Commission (APCOM) has significantly improved the Government's capacity
for analysing trends in prices, production and marketing costs and farm
budgets and for making timely and appropriate recommendations concerning
agricultural outputs and some inputs. In due course of time, APCOM would be
increasingly involved in recommending input prices like fertilizers,
pesticides and water rates. The National Commission on Agriculture has
stressed the need for expanding the scope of work of APCOM and for
strengthening its analytical capacity. The Government intends to continue the
policy of making timely support price announcements based on various criteria
being used by APCOM including the long terms trend of import and export parity
prices. The details of determining support prices, as done by APCOM, would be
discussed periodically with the Bank starting October 1988.
21.      The Bank would also discuss from time to time, starting October 1988,
APCOM's work program for the coming years. This would include the training
needs of APCOM, support for training and improving APCOM's computer capacity.
Rice and Cotton Export Marketng Operations
22.      With the domestic prices close to international parity in many
instances, the scope for improved incentives to farmers must also be sought in
improvements in the efficiency of marketing and processing systems. Towards
this end, the Government has already put in place a number of measures to
increase competition in the system. In May 1986, the elimination of monopoly
procurement of basmati rice by the public sector Rice Export Corporation and
the lifting of the ban on the movement of basmati rice and wheat across



-49-
ANNEX VI
Page   8
district lines was a major initiative towards increasing competition and
encouraging private sector participation. More recently, we have ended the
public sector export monopoly by allowing the private sector to purchase
quantities from the Cotton and Rice Export Corporations for export. We are
concerned about the size of the marketing costs of the Cotton and Rice Export
Corporations and have commissioned studies of their marketing efficiency and
the scope for possible improvement. The terms of reference for these studie-
have been issued and upon completion of the study by February 28, 1989, the
results would be reviewed with the Bank and an action program and
implementation schedule drawn up and agreed upon. We are also attempting to
increase efficiency and competition in the sugarcane sector through initiation
of the following measures: elimination of the requirement that the sugarcane
growers sell only to mills in their own zone; allowing mills to buy at any
price above the support price; the continuation of quality premiums for higher
extraction rates; and the encouragement of voluntary contracts between mills
and growers for packages of inputs such as credit, seed and fertilizer in
return for cane output.
Water Sector Investment PanningStudy
23.      Planning the use of Pakistan's scarce water resources is vital to the
economy. the last major planning effort in water resources was the
preparation of the Revised Action Plan for Irrigated Agriculture, published in
1979. The time has come for a more systematic prioritization of the pipeline
of projects and a review of water sector planning capabilities at the federal
and provincial levels. The Government has commissioned a study to prepare a
medium term plan covering a ten-year investment program for the water sector
and make recommendations for establishing water sector planning cells in
Provincial Planning and Development Departments and for strengthening WAPDA's
Planning Division and the Federal Planning Ministry's Water Resources
Section. The study, financed by the UNDP and executed y the World Bank,
would start in August 1988 and would be completed by July 1989. The results
of the study would be reviewed in July-September 1989 by GOP, UNDP and the
World Bank and an appropriate implementation program would be formulated.
Sd/- Saeed Ahmad Qureshi
Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, May 31, 1988



I



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                                              ' -J
RAINFED LANDS:t
Annval Rainfall ianifchd: sw
v   Mwo thn 20                                                       Kr;   
Les than th 12
FLOO    D AORRENT WATERED LANDS:
Z ZLout than 12
Canal ltriatoed Lands
-.   sahyot, in inchet
* Notional Capital
Prvince Clpitls
o0th., Cities anew Towns
X~~~~~~~~~iir                                                                                                                     JA oF GHAfNI  
-- District Boundati.,
ProvinC11pnunderleAN
lntef national Basundarins
0   50  Im  IS   2M    50  3W   W5  400
2~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;!-, 8 9  no,  w  _ 
4..~ ~ ~ 4
r
ISLAMIC                                              '"                        /
REP. OF IRAN
7?r



_                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 199>941
P A  K I S T A N    °{n                                            U. S.S.QR.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                      g         t           -
SCARPS IN FRESH AND SALINE GROUNDWATER AREAS                               *  ,/                    (-  CHINA
COMPETED AND UN4DER CONSTRUCTION                              tt_P~                            S
w                ~~~~FRESH GROUNDWATER AREAS:                                         .011    r        
Completed                                                                                      k36.
-  2    --1Untderronstnucton                                    S            tf_
SALINE GROUNDWATER AREAS:                                   
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Completed                         '                         /8Jim.tek3. OCno
I  IUnder Consitruction1                                .sCARP Marda '       .  .      ........ .....
Drain                                    _ s o               a°oadJAMRMU
Rivers                                               P eA S                     AIVD
National capital                                 S8C      a        n 0lid°f  AHI
Provincial capitals                                                              KSHMI.~>5RC-
o       Selected cities and villoges         .*f CR                            ~ / 
_    Provincial boundaries                                   sipu                    *     r
_     trnternaticnal boundwries                             SaJ^>
o}AFGHANISTAN                                      ..                        SA            ^°,O;)
@Q  as          |      il 9r~~~~~~~~~~~MuIt(S okot K >Po PNowt)
_.                         ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Guett  Dora Ghoa      ; zift>/55   RPvlar Fodwipoi cit~
<                                                 w      ( / ^, S[SC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"   aRP 71 Po-i-oo Abbas.a
\                                           t-   * FOllohobou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-Iot P-oect)
28'                       8  A I U C H1  S  rA N 5         i     SIR    tQLI Paoirqd Abbosvo28
OF lIRAN   .2                                        du       
g._- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                eS~~~~CARP North Rto.
f*}                              |        <   tw  \t b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ank
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo s md d.S, 4.o~               Ax NW
- /                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~an OM W doWnot C. en 0
ow o f T,, t4bf a* ard r*
Nd_fnvkr F." apa .
0       1?0     200      300     AM       50 SO                                                           evfftc m d  h t-k
l   I       X        * ~ ~ ~ ~ I      I                                                              o/ef WV toel r ay
KIltOMETERS                                                                             om'sww e,     of
6r                                  6v                                 72-ftbxUt
'             ~~~~JANUARY 1988



