Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11225
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2986-PAK)
OCTOBER 5, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Appraisal Year (1987)       US$1  - Rs 17.4
Average 1988-1990           US$1  -  Rs 20.1
Completion Year (1991)    US$1  =  Rs 23.8
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP         Annual Development Program
APCOM       Agricultural Prices Commission
ASAL        Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CECP        Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan
CIP         Core Investment Program
DAP         Di-ammonium Phosphate containing 18% N and 46% P205
FGW         Fresh Ground Water
FID         Fertilizer Import Department
GOP         Government of Pakistan
HYV         High Yielding Variety
lSRP        Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
MFAC        Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOP         Muriate of Potash containing 60% K20
MWP         Ministry of Water and Power
NAP         National Agricultural Policy
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PID         Provincial Irrigation Department
PSC         Program Steering Committee
FAP         Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture
RFCP        Rice Export Corporation of Pakistan
SAF         Structural Adjustment Facility
SBA         Stand-by Arrangement
SCARP       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SOP         Sulphate of Potash containing 50% K20
TSP         Triple Superphosphate containing 46% P205
WAPDA       Water and Power Development Authority
WSIPS       Water Sector Investment Planning Study
FISCAL YEAR
(FY89 is 1988-89)
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ON'LY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 5, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2986-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2986-
PAR)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutias. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2986-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE       .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .i.i.i. .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .
1.    Project Identity  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  1
2.  Background ................ .....                                     1
3.    Program Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
4.    Implementation Performance..                                       6
5.    Project Results and Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
6.    Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
7.  Borrower Performance              ..11
8.    Consulting Services and Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . .        12
9.    Findings and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        12
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .        14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
A.    Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
B. Loan Data   ..16
C. Timetable   ..16
D. Loan Disbursement    ..17
E. Use of Loan .17
F. Use of Bank Resources .18
I. Staff Inputs .18
II. Mission Data .18
G.    Inputs -- Retail Prices of Fertilizer . . . . . . . . . . .        19
H.    Outputs -- Crop Support/Procurement Prices  . . . . . . . .    20
Annex 1  Conditions of ASAL and Actions Taken  . . . . . . . . . . .         21
A.  Before ASAL ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
B.  For Loan Effectivenesa  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
C.  For Release of Second Tranche . . . . . . . . . . . . .       22
D.  Status of Legal Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
Annex 2   Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies . . . . . . . . .        29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oily in the perfeorance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aauthorizadon.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2986-PAK)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, Loan 2986-PAK) to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan in the amount of US$200 million equivalent, which was approved on
August 2, 1988. The loan closing date was extended by six months to December
31, 1990, and then a further month to January 31, 1991. The loan was fully
disbursed, with the last disbursement made on June 26, 1991.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III, South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III, Annexes) and the Borrower (Part II). The Policy
Statement on the Agriculture Sector (May 1988), which outlines the Borrower's
adjustment program as a basis for the loan, is given in Annex.2.
3.       The Bank's final supervision mission initiated the preparation of
this PCR in April 1990. The report is based, among other sources, on the
Initiating Memorandum, President's Report, Loan Agreement, Economic Memorandum
'Current Economic Situation and Prospects' (March 22, 1991), supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other internal
Bank documents.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2986-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Obiectives
1.       The project aimed at promoting competitive agriculture and enhancing
sustainable productivity and growth. To achieve this objective, the
Government agreed to save domestic resources through cost and subsidy
reductions; rationalize the investment program in the agriculture and water
sectors; and strengthen institutions dealing with agricultural pricing, rice
and cotton exports, and water sector investments. The specific measures that
the Government of Pakistan (GOP) would take are detailed in Part I, para 3.01.
B. Implementation Experience
2.       The US$200 million equivalent loan was signed on September 7, 1988,
and became effective on November 4, 1988. It was to be released in two
tranches of US$100 million equivalent each. The first tranche was released
upon effectiveness. The second was withheld for eight months because of
significant shortfall in achieving the targets for fertilizer subsidy
reduction, inadequate funding of the priority investment program, and delay in
taking certain actions that were due by the tranche release date, October
1989. The tranche was released in June 1990 once agreed actions had been
taken--fulfillment of the fertilizer subsidy reduction targets; enhancement of
the Annual Development Program (ADP) for the agriculture and water sectors;
and adoption of action plans based on the water charges study, and the studies
on cotton and rice export operations. The loan closing date was extended a
total of seven months to January 31, 1991, to allow disbursement of the second
tranche to be completed.
C. Results
3.       The fertilizer pricing policy objective of the program has not been
fully achieved. Still, when seen in the context of frequent political
changes, and resource constraints, the actual achievement is satisfactory. By
1990, the fertilizer subsidy had been drastically reduced which, on the basis
of the present quantity of phosphate (P) and potassium (K) fertilizer sold,
would save about US$40 million per year in Government expenditure.
Unfortunately, subsidy rates increased again in 1991. The subsidy on DAP and
SOP was further reduced in March 1992 although it was still in excess of the
target subsidy rates for DAP and SOP.



iv
4.       The scope of the private sector in fertilizer marketing and
distribution has been increased to achieve economy and efficiency in the
operation (para 4.04).
5.       More than 200 (of the target 216) public tubewells in fresh
groundwater (FGW) areas of the SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr. 1693-PAK)
were privatized. New public investment in tubewells in FGW areas of the Indus
basin was stopped. A Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. 2257-PAK) to
privatize a further 1,346 public tubewells in Punjab and 380 in Sindh became
effective on April 30, 1992 (para 4.05). The Governments of Sindh and Punjab
are proceeding with further larger-scale privatization without foreign
assistance.
6.       Following a nationwide study for improving procedures and assessment
of water charges, a plan of action was agreed upon to move towards full
recovery of O&M costs. However, the implementation of these measures has been
partial and very slow (para 4.06-4.07)
7.       Rationalization of investment in the agriculture and water sectors
has been approached through a three-year core investment program for FY89-91.
Allocations for both sectors have been increased for priority projects, though
resource availability has constrained full program implementation (para 4.08).
The annual development program continues to be reviewed by the Bank annually.
8.       Strengthening of institutions is progressing.  Training and technical
assistance requirements of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) are
being met through a program recommended in the studies that were carried out.
Restrictions have been lifted on the private sector in order to permit its
participation in the rice and cotton export trade. The planning capacity of
the agencies in the water sector has been increased by establishment of
federal (WAPDA) and provincial planning cells. In Sindh, responsibility for
assessment of water charges has been shifted from the Revenue Department to
the Irrigation Department, while similar actions in the other provinces is
still awaited (para 4.09).
9.       Action plans based on the project studies have been agreed with the
Bank for further institutional strengthening in the areas of assessment and
collection of water charges, agricultural pricing, cotton and rice exports,
and water sector planning (Annex 1, D). Measures have been developed by GOP
to reduce the gap between O&M expenditure and cost recovery although, as
mentioned above, their implementation by provincial authorities to date is
slow.
D. Sustainability
10.      The reform program supported by ASAL is a continuation of the process
started under the Bank supported SAL (1983) and through project lending. The
Government has shown the will to recast investment priorities, mobilize
resources through cost and subsidy reduction, deploy non-price measures to
improve agricultural productivity, increase the role of the private sector in
agriculture, and strengthen agricultural institutions. The Government has
continued to implement the ASAL program as part of its adjustment program



v
which the Bank supported through two additional sector adjustment loans -- for
the Financial Sector in March 1989, and the Second Energy Program in June
1989. Support for the agricultural reforms is also being provided by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) under the ongoing Agricultural Program Loan.
E. Findings and Lessons Learned
11.      The main findings and lessons learned from the implementation of the
ASAL program can be summarized as follows:
(i) The slow progress on the admittedly difficult cost recovery of O&M of
the irrigation system highlights difficulties encountered by
Government in ensuring compliance by provincial governments and the
need, if possible, for greater participation by provinces in project
formulation and finalization (para 9.02).
(ii) There is a need for thorough appraisal of the institutions
responsible for implementation, especially those dealing with
programs that require difficult decisions as economic reform with
wide political implications (para 9.03). The Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MFAC) was made the Coordinator of the
program. It deserves credit for delivering the program despite its
institutional weakness and frequent changes in senior staff.
(iii) The Bank should not underestimate the staff inputs required for
effective preparation and supervision of this kind of loan (para
9.04).
(iv) ASAL demonstrated the need to focus the reform effort on a few
selected key issues rather than attempting to handle a broader range
of agricultural issues (para 9.05).
(v) ASAL also demonstrated the importance of combining the reform program
with concurrent efforts in the same area. The program's success was
enhanced by the parallel Policy Framework Paper (PFP), the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) program, and on-going irrigation
projects, all of which included ASAL objectives and reinforce the
importance of compliance (para 9.06).
(vi) Finally, private sector fertilizer importers found the Bank's ICB
procedures cumbersome, until US$80 million were earmarked for imports
under importers' own procedures. It may therefore be useful to
adjust procurement procedures in future program loans (para 9.08).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPOkT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 2986-PAK)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number           2986-PAK
R V P Unit            South Asia (SA3AG)
Country               Pakistan
Sector               Agriculture
2. BACKGROUND
Agriculture Sector and Macroeconomic Developments
2.01     Sectoral Context.  The agriculture sector is the mainstay of
Pakistan's economy. It contributes about one quarter of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), 70% of foreign exchange earnings (including cotton based
manufactures), and employs nearly 16 million people, which is over half of the
total labor force.
2.02     Agricultural commodities, mostly cotton and rice, account for over
25X of exports, while cotton textiles and other agro-based manufacturing
exports account for an additional 40%. Agricultural imports, mainly wheat,
edible oil, tea, fertilizers and agricultural machinery, absorb around 50X of
agricultural export earnings. Out of around 5,000 industrial establishments,
about 60% are based on agricultural commodities. The value of their output
represents around three-fifths of the value of all industrial production.
2.03     Macroeconomic Developments.  Pakistan's economy grew rapidly at over
6Z during the 1980's with strong export performance and modest inflation.
Despite this healthy performance, the underlying structure of the economy
contained certain weaknesses. The savings rate was low; the fiscal budget was
heavily dependant for revenues on trade taxes and inelastic demand taxes;
current expenditures were largely absorbed by defense, interest expense,
wages, subsidies on food and agricultural inputs; and development expenditures
were inadequate to build and maintain physical infrastructure.
2.04     Since July 1988, Pakistan has been implementing a comprehensive
macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program designed to improve the
country's growth performance while redressing the external and domestic



2
imbalances and rectifying the persistent structural weaknesses. The key
elements in this program are: (i) fiscal deficit reduction through revenue
reform and expenditure restraint; (ii) correction of domestic price rigidities
and distortions through adjustments to administered prices and deregulation;
(iii) trade and exchange liberalization and tariff reform; (iv) enhanced
private investment and investment deregulation and a privatization program
and; (v) prudent exchange rate management to support firm demand management
and assist in preserving international competitiveness.
2.05     The Government's reform efforts have been supported by the IMF
through disbursements under the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) and a
Standby arrangement. The program has also been supported by the World Bank
through projects and sectoral adjustment loans in energy and the financial
sector as well as the project being reviewed in this report; and by the Asian
Development bank under various programs; and by other mulilateral and
bilateral agencies.
2.06     in 1988/89, progress was made in implementation of policy measures in
trade liberalization, domestic credit restraint and exchange rate management.
Real GDP at market prices grew at 5.0% while inflation abated. The fiscal and
domestic pricing measures reduced the overall deficit by 1.0% of CDP to 7.6%
and the Government's policies also contributed to the strengthening of private
investment.
2.07     In 1989/90, the overall performance was somewhat short of Government
expectations. In particular, gross domestic investment declined somewhat as a
share of GDP but the overall fiscal deficit declined by 1.0% to 6.6% of GDP,
helping to improve domestic savings and contain the external current account
deficit. However, the inflation rate declined to 6.4%. Further progress was
also made in the area of structural reforms, new steps were taken in the
fiscal area and the second stage of a medium term reform program to liberalize
the trade regime was implemented. In addition, as part of the comprehensive
financial sector reform program, initial steps were taken to improve public
debt management.
2.08     In addition to two changes of Government, the economy was adversely
affected by the Middle East crisis in 1990/91. Overall, the economy achieved
a rate of growth of 6.5% of GDP (at market prices). However, there were
adverse effects in other respects. The fiscal deficit reached 8.8% of GDP, the
current account deficit was 4.6% of GNP and the rate of inflation reached a
high 12.7%. To correct these slippages, the Government is implementing in
FY92, an ambitious stabilization and structural reform program with the
support of the IMF. The Government is also currently discussing with the Bank
a proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan.
2.09     Recent Agriculture Sector Performance.  Overall growth of the sector
during FY89-91 averaged more than the 3.8% achieved during the Sixth Plan
reaching the target of 4.7% set by the Seventh Plan, but fluctuated widely
between years and among crops. Growth was satisfactory for cotton, but below
the population growth rate for wheat. During the period, 4.2 million tons of
wheat had to be imported.



3
2.10     The influence of ASAL measures on sectoral performance, though
difficult to demonstrate, appears to have been positive. The prices of P and
K fertilizers were increased thrice during 1988-90 and input subsidies were
reduced; investments were focused on high priority projects; O&M expenditures
were increased; relevant institutions were strengthened; and the private
sector was encouraged to participate in investment, marketing and
distribution.
2.11     Despite reduction in fertilizer subsidies as a part of the structural
reforms, total fertilizer use continued to increase between FY89 and FY91,
except for P and K fertilizers for which consumption decreased by 3% and 12%,
respectively. The reduction was partly due to the price increase and partly
to the supply situation and absence of promotional efforts. In FY90, it was
certainly influenced by delayed imports. During FY91, P and K fertilizer use
increased with timely availability but did not reach the FY88 level. GOP
imported, under a Canadian aid project, about 5,000 tons of muriate of potash
(MOP) at prices lower(US$108/ton) than sulphate of potash (SOP, US$198/ton).
The program for water management, mainly through rehabilitation of the public
irrigation system and private investment chiefly in tubewells, has resulted in
increased availability of water by 2.48 HAF (from 117.14 MAF in 1989-90 to
119.62 in 1990-91).
Actions Taken Before Preparation of ASAL
2.12     Changes in the agriculture sector started in 1980 as a part of World
Bank lending in support of the National Agricultural Policy (NAP). The
Fertilizer Imports Credit (FY81) and Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL, FY83)
and credits made for the water sector since 1982 addressed agricultural policy
issues. Three interrelated agricultural pricing policy issues were
highlighted in the SAL and other lending operations. A brief description is
given below.
(a)  Fertilizer Price Subsidies.  Fertilizer subsidies had increased from
US$32 million in 1974/75 to about US$200 million in 1979/80,
representing 33% and 64%, respectively, of GOP's total allocation for
the agricultural sector investment program. Since these subsidies
were a part of the capital budget, funds were being diverted from
other priority investments to cover the escalating fertilizer prices
following the second "shock" of petroleum price increases in 1979.
Also, by 1980 Pakistan had managed to sustain relatively high growth
rates in agriculture for a number of years, assisted by high growth
rates in fertilizer consumption (20% per year) and adoption of high
yielding varieties. Fertilizer subsidy levels were determined by
GOP's policy to expand the production capacity of domestic fertilizer
plants, and as a result a relatively high proportion of the subsidy
was being used to support high-cost plants. To lighten the fiscal
burden, fertilizer prices were raised in 1980 by 50%, but this
reduced the growth rate of fertilizer use from 20% in earlier years
to only 2% during the next two years. After the deregulation of
nitrogenous fertilizers in 1986, prices were carefully managed
against possible decline in consumption. But the subsidy on P and K
fertilizers was US$80 million a year and public sector marketing and



4
distribution remained costly; ASAL aimed at alleviating this fiscal
burden.
(b) Irrigation O&M Subsidies. The findings of the Revised Action Program
for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP) were confirmed in the National
Agricultural Policy (NAP) statements in 1980. The NAP aimed at: (a)
reorientation of public expenditure programs in the agriculture and
water sectors, with emphasis on use of existing facilities, notably
rehabilitation of the irrigation system, upgrading of on-farm water
management, and improving research and extension services; (b)
adjustments in prices and subsidies to increase productivity and
eliminate subsidies; (c) diversification of agriculture; and (d)
encouragement of private sector participation in input and output
marketing and distribution, processing of grains, and development of
fresh groundwater. It highlighted the need for channelling
additional financial resources to short-gestation projects and
postponing new large-scale, capital-intensive schemes. As a result
of this policy shift, the IDA-assisted Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-PAX), cofinanced with USAID, has
improved 25% of the canals with serious maintenance deficiencies. An
additional 30% of the irrigation and drainage canal systems are being
rehabilitated under a follow-up project assisted by IDA, USAID, and
the Netherlands (Cr. 1888-PAK). Building on the experience of a
USAID assisted pilot project, a nationwide watercourse improvement
program, under cost-sharing arrangements with Water User Associations
(VWUAs) was launched in 1982 with IDA assistance. However, only 15%
of the existing 107,000 watercourses had been renovated by FY90.
Irrigation O&M expenditures and recoveries are the responsibility of
the provincial governments which have not fully adjusted water
charges to O&M costs. Inadequate O&M funding resulted in
deterioration olf the vast Indus irrigation system. Consequently, an
estimated one half of the surface and groundwater was being lost.
Resource constraints are attributable partly to highly subsidized
irrigation water charges, an issue which called for corrective
measures such as those proposed under ASAL.
(c) Agricultural Pricing Policies. Up to 1980, GOP's process of setting
prices of key inputs and outputs had been somewhat subjective and had
not achieved its objectives of reducing the financial burden of food
and fertilizer subsidies, providing incentives to producers, and
realizing parity with border prices. Policy interventions required
the establishment of an institution to: (a) provide consistent and
timely recommendations on appropriate crop and input prices based on
continuous and objective analysis; and (b) assess the effects of such
policies. The creation of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM)
in 1981 was intended to meet that need. The Rice and Cotton Export
Corporations, established in 1989, monopolized the export of these
commodities. Problems of financial management and administrative
efficiency surfaced, however, for which a solution was to be sought
under ASAL (paras 3.01 and 4.10).



5
ASAL and Parallel Developments
2.13     ASAL is a continuation of the adjustment process which was launched
during the early 1980s. A preparation mission visited Pakistan in April 1985,
and a first appraisal mission in November 1985. However, the appraisal team
could not complete its work because GOP was not prepared to present time
schedules for removal of fertilizer and irrigation O&M subsidies. Following a
new initiative by the Bank in November 1986, GOP revised its position on the
subsidy issue, and proposed a three-year schedule for elimination of the
fertilizer subsidy. It also indicated its intent to privatize the SCARP
tubewells (to narrow the cost recovery gap). The ASAL appraisal was completed
in July 1987, and the loan approved in August 1988. Loan preparation took
place in parallel with preparation of a macroeconomic and structural
adjustment program supported mainly by the Bank and the IMF as well as other
donors. The balance of payments support (for agricultural imports) provided
by ASAL and its sector specific conditions, which were also reflected in the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), reinforced the macroeconomic reform program.
2.14     The Government's PFP was considered by the Bank's Executive Directors
in December 1988. At the same time, a 15-month Stand-by Arrangement (SBA), and
a three-year (FY88-91) Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF), as well as the
first annual SAF arrangement and loan thereunder, were approved by the Fund's
Executive Directors. The medium-term adjustment and structural reform program
sought to redress the growing macroeconomic imbalances; to improve the fiscal
situation through revenue generation and expenditure control; and to initiate
reforms in the areas of domestic pricing, trade and industrial policies, and
the financial sector.
3. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01     ASAL supported the Government's policy of promoting competitive
agriculture and enhancing productivity and'growth through a reform program
designed to: (i) mobilize domestic resources by cost recovery and subsidy
reduction; (ii) rationalize the investment program in the agriculture and
water sectors; and (iii) continue institutional improvements. Specific
measures the Government agreed to implement were:
(a)  to phase out economic subsidies for phosphate (P) and potash (K)
fertilizers based on an agreed schedule and formula for calculating
their economic price (paras 4.02 to 4.04);
(b)  to reduce fertilizer distribution and marketing costs (para 4.04) by:
(i) rationalizing the allocation of responsibility for marketing and
distribution between public and private sectors, i.e., increasing
private distributors' share; and (ii) facilitating discharge of such
responsibility by private distributors;
(c)  to privatize public tubewells in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas, and
not to install new public tubevells in these areas, in order to
reduce the public budgetary burden of O&M and improve the delivery of
irrigation supplies (para 4.05);



6
(d) to move towards full recovery of irrigation (and drainage) operation
and maintenance costs (para 4.06);
(e) to formulate and implement a three-year (FY89-91) Core Investment
Program (CIP) in the agriculture and water sectors (para 4.08);
(f) to strengthen institutions dealing with formulation of agricultural
support prices, rice and cotton exports, and water sector planning
(para 4.09); and
(g) to undertake program-related studies on:
(i)     improvement of water and drainage charge assessment and
collection procedures (para 4.07),
(ii)     rice and cotton export operations (para 4.09), and
(iii)     transfer of public tubewells in FGW areas in Punjab and
Sindh (para 4.05);
funding for these studies was provided in ASAL (US$1 million) but not
used; the amount was reallocated for import of inputs, and the
studies were financed out of the Third Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 1755-PAK) and Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1888-PAK).
4. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
4.01     Progress under ASAL was satisfactory with regard to the elimination
of fertilizer subsidies and the CIP, but less so with regard to irrigation O&M
cost recovery and implementation of the'recommendations of the studies.
4.02     Fertilizer Subsidy Reduction.  The fertilizer subsidy, introduced in
the late 1950s to popularize fertilizer use, has achieved its purpose.
Consumption increased from 31,000 tons of nutrients--nitrogen, phosphate and
potash (N, P and K)--in 1960-61 to 1.8 million tons in 1986-87, when the
subsidy on nitrogenous fertilizers (70% of the total) was eliminated.
Fertilizer subsidies increased from 30% of the agricultural development budget.
during the Second Plan (FY60-64) to 137% during the Fifth Plan (FY79-83). By
1990-91, total fertilizer use had reached about 2 million tons, with the use
of nitrogen fertilizer increasing. The use of P and K fertilizers, which
account for about one-fifth of total consumption, declined by 3% and 12%,
respectively, between FY89 and FY91 which was contributed, at least in part,
by the price increase following the phasing out of the subsidy. SOP accounts
for almost all consumption of potash while DAP accounts for about 90% of
phosphatic fertilizers. Both are imported and are the two major subsidized
fertilizers. Table 1 shows the subsidy on P and K fertilizers before the
start of ASAL (July 1988) and the reduction through March 1992.



7
Table 1:  PROPOSED (P) AND ACHIEVED (A) TARGETS OF PHASING
OUT THE FERTILIZER SUBSIDY1/
Oct 88      Oct 89       Oct 90      Oct 91       Mar 92
Fertilizer    Pre-ASAL      A        P    A       P    A      P    A          A
----------------------Percent of Price--------------------------
DAP           35        25        17  22        9  8.5      0  19          8
NP            48        45        33   -       20   -       0   -          -
SOP           76        60        52  68       44  44.72/  36  53         38
NPK           63        50        32   -       16   -        0   -          -
TSP           43        30        20   -       10   -        0   -         -
4.03  In FY89, a pricing methodology based on nutrient content (N, P and K)
was adopted which resulted in equivalent nutrient prices for different
fertilizer products. The prices of N, P and K were derived from urea, DAP and
SOP, respectively. Since nitrogenous fertilizer prices were deregulated in
1986, only DAP and SOP prices can be monitored to check progress in subsidy
removal. As shown in Table 1, GOP was in compliance with the agreed subsidy
reduction schedule in 1990, but not in 1991. It has since taken steps to
further reduce the remaining subsidies.
4.04 Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution. In FY90, GOP adopted an action
plan to rationalize and economize fertilizer marketing and distribution by
increasing the role of the private sector. Fertilizer distribution is handled
by both public (federal and provincial) and private sector agencies. Each of
these agencies operates in designated provinces, except the National
Fertilizer Marketing Ltd. (federal) and the Fauji Fertilizer Co. Ltd.
(private), which cover the whole of Pakistan. Both public and private sector
agencies distribute their products (full domestic and respective share of
imported fertilizers) through dealers and outlets. The public sector's 7,000
outlets are insufficient for efficient supply. To take advantage of the low
overhead, transport and storage costs and the outlet network of the private
sector, GOP increased the private sector's share in fertilizer imports from
50% to 60% in 1987, but by FY90 the private sector was not handling its full
share while GOP was ready to increase it to 80%. The Government therefore
approved the following: (a) the allocation of imported fertilizers was made
contingent upon marketing capabilities; (b) the private sector was to
participate in the planning of fertilizer imports and their distribution; and
(c) additional port facilities were to be made available to improve scheduling
of deliveries.
4.05 Privatization of Public Tubewells. As part of the resource mobilization
effort, privatization of SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas is
l/ The economic subsidy is defined as the difference between the domestic price and the
three-year average of the reference international price.
Z/ To be phased out by 1995 at the rate of 9% per year--President's Report, Annex V, page 2.



8
being pursued with IDA assistance under the SCARP Transition Pilot and Second
SCARP Transition Projects (Cr. 1693-PAK, 2257-PAK) based on agreements reached
under the Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK).
The program calls for (a) replacement of large public tubewells by small
capacity private tubewells, and/or transfer of public tubewells to private
farmer groups; and (b) termination of public sector investment in new or
replacement tubewells in FGW areas. ASAL confirmed these project covenants.
The objective is to complete the privatization program by 1998. GOP upheld
this policy of withdrawing from public replacement and investment in FGW area
tubewells, and has encouraged the private sector to take its place. Already,
213 tubewells have been phased out under the SCARP Transition Pilot Project in
Punjab. The Second SCARP Transition Project covering 1346 public tubewells in
Punjab and 380 in Sindh has started in FY92.
4.06 ASAL required completion of a study on Water Charges and adoption of its
recommendations during the project period. The 'Nationwide Study for Improving
Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Water Charges and Drainage Cess'
was completed in March 1990, one year late. It proposed a plan of action
which was approved by GOP but implementation has been lagging. Sindh has
implemented two of the recommended measures, shifting responsibility for water
charge assessment from the Revenue Department to the Irrigation Department,
and streamlining the water rate structure (Annex 1, D7). However, overall
progress on this front was limited.
4.07 Recovery of Full O&M Costs. The Government was unable to provide
adequate funding for O&M of the surface irrigation and subsurface drainage
systems and to raise recovery as agreed under ASAL and the Second Irrigation
Systems Rehabilitation Project. Actual allocations have fallen short of
targets in all provinces except NWFP, with the greatest shortfall in Punjab.
No water charge increases have been decided for years, and collections have
stagnated around Rs 600 million, a level substantially below requirements.
However, the ASAL covenants provided a great deal of flexibility regarding O&M
cost recovery. There were in effect "moving targets" on cost recovery, all to
be achieved by 1992 or later, up to 1997--after the closing of ASAL (see Annex
1, D8). ASAL required only completion of a study and adoption of its
recommendations during the project period.
4.08 Core Investment Program (FY89-91). The core investment program was
prepared in October 1988 and revised and agreed with the Bank in December
1988. Actual funding for the two sectors concerned, agriculture and water,
was about 80X of the targets during FY89 and FY90. The FY91 allocation,
designed to offset the earlier shortfalls, was higher than envisaged in the
core program for the federal water sector. The allocation for the agriculture
sector was 12% higher than in FY90. Shortfalls, on the whole, were more
pronounced in the agriculture than the water sector. The Annual Development
Program (ADP) for 1991-92 which is a significant increase over the earlier
year,has been reviewed with the Bank and is broadly appropriate, although
under-budgeting for ongoing projects and O&M (especially in research,
extension, and irrigation) remains a problem.



9
4.09  Strengthening of Institutions.  ASAL envisaged the strengthening of
institutions dealing with agricultural pricing, rice and cotton exports, and
water sector planning. The implementation of this component, though slower
than expected, was satisfactory. The training and technical assistance
requirements of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) have been met. The
proposed methodological improvements in pricing policy analysis have not yet
been implemented pending further review. Recent developments indicate an
increasing gap between international prices and the lower domestic/procurement
prices for cotton, basmati rice and wheat. Though commodity pricing policy
did not form part of the ASAL program, this is disturbing. Action plans for
improving the cost structure of the Rice Export Corporation and Cotton Export
Corporation, and promoting the participation of the private sector in cotton
and rice trade and export, were drawn up and agreed with the Bank. While the
private sector is now participating in the rice and cotton export marketing
operations, its share of exports is small and closely regulated. Details are
in Annex 1, D.
4.10 A Water Sector Investment Planning Study (WSIPS) was completed in late
1990 with UNDP financing and the Bank as executing agency. The objectives of
the study were to develop a medium-term (1990-2000) investment plan and to
improve the (federal and provincial) planning process. Its second objective
corroborated ASAL's institutional objectives. The study recommended
strengthening the planning cells established for its preparation and
maintaining the Technical Coordination Group at the federal level. It also
strongly endorsed the recommendations of the ASAL study on assessment and
collection of water charges. A Consultative Meeting discussed the
recommendations of the WISPS in March 1991, and consensus was reached on the
major issues in the water sector and the need for strengthening water sector
institutions.
5. PROJECT RESULTS AND SUSTAINABILITY
5.01 Emphasis on investment in high priority, low-cost and quick-maturing
projects has become part of the GOP strategy. However, financial constraints
prevented full implementation of the core investment program (CIP) formulated
under ASAL. The agriculture sector received increased funding under CIP in
each succeeding year, and targets for the water sector were substantially
achieved (80%). However, some key projects, such as LBOD (Left Bank Outfall
Drain, Cr. 1532-PAK), received only 60% of their budgetary requirements in
FY90, contributing to implementation delay. Still, GOP's efforts in 1991-92
show substantial increase in funding which shows its commitment to the above
investment strategy.
5.02 As stipulated by ASAL, fertilizer subsidies were drastically reduced
from 35% in FY88 to 8.5% in FY91 on DAP, and from 76% in FY88 to 44.7% inFY91
on SOP. The price adjustment for P and K fertilizers saves the Government
around US$40 million per year. The subsidy on nitrogenous fertilizer was
phased out in 1986. The role of the private sector in fertilizer distribution
and marketing has been enhanced, which resulted in increased economy and
efficiency. For 1991-92, the fertilizer subsidy on DAP is around 19% and for
SOP around 53%, despite a decline in import prices. This compares with a
target subsidy of 0% for DAP and 36% for SOP. A further adjustment was made



10
in March 1992 to reduce the subsidy for DAP and SOP to 8% and 38%
respectively.
5.03 GOP has agreed to increase recovery of O&M costs for surface irrigation
and subsurface saline drainage. The actual increase has not yet materialized
because of slow response of the provincial governments. However,
conditionality under ASAL did not require this during the implemenation
period. The program of reducing public expenditure through privatization of
tubewells in FGW areas is progressing, and public investment in FCW tubewells
has ceased. In contrast, the ASAL covenants on O&M cost recovery appear to be
less rigorous, possibly because of the realization that water charges are a
provincial (not a Federal) responsibility and which are politically sensitive.
The delay in completion of the studies prevented a real opportunity for the
Bank to monitor implementation of their recommendations during the ASAL
period.
5.04 Agricultural institutions have been strengthened. Training and
technical assistance were provided to APCOM. The Rice and Cotton Export
Corporations are being reorganized on the basis of the studies done under ASAL
to improve their efficiency. The private sector is now involved in rice and
cotton trade and exports. Water sector planning institutions have been
provided with planning cells. The effectiveness of institutions is being
improved through increased numbers and quality of staff, and clearer
definition of departmental responsibilities. However, since the studies were
delayed, not all their recommendations have yet been implemented.
5.05 Although implementation on some agreed actions was slower than expected,
there is no indication that GOP would abandon any of the initiatives of the
program. In fact GOP is still comitted to the ASAL objectives, but is of the
view that more time is needed to achieve the goals and targets. This is
evident in the case of the DAP subsidy where GOP has proposed a delay in
achieving targets, and in the Irrigation O&M and water charges where GOP
agreed to renewed targets under a recent Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South)
Irrigation and Drainage Project. Chances of sustainability are reinforced by
the Asian Development Bank's Agricultural Program Loan (FY90).
5.06 Second Tranche Release. Release of the second tranche was delayed from
October 1989 to June 1990, when GOP substantially met the conditions for
release, i.e., reduction of the fertilizer subsidy, adoption of plans for
reducing fertilizer marketing costs, agreement to the action plan for
improving water charge assessment and collection, increasing the role of the
private sector in rice and cotton exports, and formulation and implementation
of the priority Investment Program.
5.07 When the Bank released the second tranche of the ASAL, the IMF had not
been able to complete the second review of the Stand-by. This decision was
taken because: (i) ASAL conditions had been substantially met; (ii) there was
no specific provision linking the ASAL tranche release to the macroeconomic
program. In addition, there was progress in most areas of the SBA/SAF program;
and where there were deviations, Government had undertaken or had indicated it
will undertake corrective actions. In this regard it should be noted that the
IMF had approved an extension of the SBA until November 1990 to allow time for



11
a fuller assessment of the FY90 outcome and the proposed program for FY91.
6. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01 The ASAL concept emerged from a long dialogue between GOP and the Bank.
This dialogue started in 1984, when SAL (Ln. 2166-PAK, Cr. 1255-PAK) was
implemented. Substantial staff input was devoted to preparation and appraisal
(Part III, E). ASAL was therefore rather costly in terms of staff time in the
initial stages.
6.02 The Bank's intervention was timely, relevant and helpful. Bank staff
coordination with IMF staff helped changing governments to make difficult
decisions. However, sufficiently strong mechanisms were not built into the
program to ensure compliance with parts of it falling within provincial
authority. The last formal supervision mission was fielded in April 1990; it
recommended release of the second tranche in June 1990. Earlier supervision
missions were effective in dealing with CIP and fertilizer price adjustments,
and in expediting the studies. ASAL was also costly in terms of supervision,
with the number of staff weeks in FY89 and FY90 well above Bank "norms".
7. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.01 Borrower performance on the whole was satisfactory. The fertilizer
subsidy was drastically reduced; the scope of the private sector in fertilizer
marketing and distribution was increased; public investment in tubewells in
FGW areas was stopped; an action plan for recovery of of O&M irrigation costs
was agreed upon; institutions were strengthened; and investment in agriculture
and the water secors were rationalized. However, due to financial constraints
there was inadequate funding in the earlier years of the core investment
program. Other problems included delays in the completion of studies,
procurement, disbursements, and preparation of audit reports; incomplete
progress reports; and failure to introduce refined pricing policy analysis
with APCOM participation, and to implement agreed action plans expeditiously.
Overall, response to the ASAL program by the provincial authorities was
limited. The conditions relating to the areas which were the responsibility of
the Provinces ( e.g. water charges, irrigation O&M,) were outlined in the
Agreement as agreed by the Federal Government on behalf of the Provinces, but
implementation by the provinces was slow or not forthcoming.
7.02 The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, MFAC, was designated as
coordinator and chairman of the Program Steering Committee (PSC). Relevant
agencies were represented on PSC and its membership was drawn from senior
officials. Although PSC was well constituted, it did not forcefully follow up
when certain agreed schedules were delayed. This was explained by the need to
seek action from the many agencies responsible for the various programs, and
the lengthy decision making process.
decided on their merits.



12
8. CONSULTING SERVICES AND PROCUREMENT
8.01     Three studies were carried out by consultants under this program
(financed under two other projects; see para 3.01):
(a) Rice and Cotton Export Operations studies under the auspices of
APCOM;
(b) Water Charges Assessment and Collection Study under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Water and Power; and
(c) SCARP Transition Feasibility Studies in Punjab and Sindh.
8.02     All studies started late due to slow processing of consultants'
proposals and award of contracts. The first two studies were delayed by about
eight months and one year, respectively. The SCARP Transition study was
completed in May 1990 instead of June 1989.
8.03     The study on Rice and Cotton Export Operations was adequate.
However, considerable input had to be provided by APCOM, in addition to a
full-time coordinator, and Bank supervision missions. The Water Charges study
was carried out satisfactorily. Based on the SCARP Transition Study, a
project was appraised and an IDA credit (Cr. 2257-PAK) approved in June 1991.
8.04     Procurement.  There were frequent delays in the preparation of bid
documents, evaluation of bills, and award of contracts, which considerably
slowed utilization of the loan proceeds.  To facilitate private sector imports
of pesticides, the Bank agreed to earmark US$80 million for procurement under
importers' own procedures rather than ICB procedures laid down in its
guidelines.
9. FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
9.01     The principal findings and lessons learned from implementation of
this program are:
9.02     Action was more timely in the areas of federal government
responsibilities (e.g., fertilizer subsidy) than those of the provincial
governments (e.g., O&M recovery).
9.03     The leading role in program coordination was given to the MFAC.  The
ministry needs to be strengthened. Its role in the sector, due to division of
responsibility between federal and provincial governments, is limited. In
addition, frequent changes in senior officials during the course of the ASAL
program caused problems as necessary continuity was not maintained. In the
final analysis, however, MFAC deserves credit for delivering the program in a
fairly satisfactory form, some delays and shortfalls notwithstanding. The
lesson of this experience is the need for critical appraisal of implementing
agencies, especially those dealing with programs that require difficult
decisions on economic reforms with wide political implications.



13
9.04     The project was staff-intensive for preparation and appraisal as well
as supervision (Part III, E). The lesson is that staff requirements for
program loans should not be underestimated; supervision "norms" may not be
applicable for this type of operation.
9.05     The ASAL focussed on a few important issues rather than attempting to
deal with a broader range. It attempted to address resource mobilization
through cost and subsidy reduction, privatization, and improvements in O&M and
marketing by upgrading a few key institutions, all designed to improve
economic efficiency. However, ASAL set quantifiable targets only for
fertilizer subsidy reduction and the CIP. All other elements required only
studies to be carried out during the implementation period. Delays in study
completion caused delays in adoption of their recommendations. This raises an
important issue on the timing of actions. While implementation before loan
closing could provide a greater chance for compliance with conditions, it also
raises the issue of commitment of the Government to the actions proposed. The
events after project closing (e.g water charges, action plans for rice and
cotton export marketing) suggest a lack of commitment by the government to the
agreed actions.
9.06     Although actions agreed on by the Federal Government were, in
principle, binding on the provincial governments ( e.g vater charges,
irrigation O&M) measures to be implemented by the provinces were somewhat
delayed. This raises the issue of whether there should be greater
participation of the provinces in project formulation and finalization in
programs of this type.
9.07     Another lesson is the importance of combining reform programs with
concurrent efforts in the same area. The success of ASAL was enhanced because
it moved in parallel with ongoing projects, PFP, IMF and other aid agencies'
programs that had similar or identical objectives.
9.08     Finally, private sector importers experienced difficulty using World
Bank procurement guidelines, which were subsequently relaxed. It may be
useful to adjust procurement procedures in program loans, depending on whether
the importers are in the public or private sector.



14
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
10.01    The Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan spelled out its
reform program for the agricultural sector in its statement of Agriculture
Policy in 1988 (Annex 2). That statement outlined the basis for a World Bank
loan for the sector adjustment program. This program was a boost rather than
a reason for adjustment which the Government of Pakistan had formulated.
10.02    The project aimed at promoting competitive agriculture and enhancing
sustainable productivity and growth. The project objectives, as initially
agreed, viz., improved mobilization of resources by reduction of costs and
subsidies, rationalizing investment program for agriculture and water sectors,
and strengthening of institutions dealing with agricultural processing and
trade in major agricultural commodities, rice and cotton to be specific, were
largely implemented. Although some changes in the magnitude and timing of
originally agreed action had to be negotiated with the World Bank during
implementation, the program was delivered in a substantially wholesome
character. The examination and analysis of the program as contained in Parts
I and III of this PCR provides proof of that claim. The impact of these
measures on productivity and production in the agriculture sector would need
to be evaluated in due course.
10.03    The successful implementation of the program, besides politically
hard decisions of the GOP, was greatly helped by the Bank's supervision
missions which displayed professional understanding of the economic and
political environment in which the project was being implemented. The
continuous dialogue between GOP and World Bank staff was key to the success of
this program.
10.04    The specific reforms introduced in the sector through this program
can be summarized as under:
(a)  Subsidy on fertilizers was curtailed which resulted in annual savings
in the budget of US$40 million equivalent. Simultaneously, output
prices were substantially increased as natural corollary to subsidy
withdrawal to achieve the adjustment balance. The same price
adjustment policy is being continued. The actual increase in prices
of major crops during the program was as tabulated below:
Price of Crops : Rs 40/KG
Wheat   Rice (Basmati)   Cotton    Sugarcane
1988-89                  85            135           196          12.6
1989-90                  96            143.5         211          13.8
1990-91                 112            150           245          15.3
Increase over 88-89(%) 32               11            25          21
(b)  Private sector was enabled to play a role in the rational and
econonmic marketing and distribution of fertilizers.



15
(c) Investment program in the agriculture and water sectors was focussed
on priority projects through a three-year (FY89-91) core program.
(d) Privatization of public tubewells in the fresh groundwater (FGW)
areas was earnestly begun, and expansion of public tubewells ceased
in FGW areas which proved waiteful in the public sector.
(e) Measures were devised to move towards full recovery of O&M charges
including strengthening of the agencies responsible for water charges
assessment and collection.
(f) Technical assistance was provided for studies on Rice and Cotton
Export Corporations which were completed under this program to
strengthen the agencies dealing with the sector.
10.05    The adjustment program in all the above noted policy areas is being
continued even after the project completion. The noteworthy aspect is that
this program has been continued despite three changes in the Government, and
each Government with a different political agenda. This shows wholesale
commitment to economic reforms in the agricultural sector.



16
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
Title                                           Approval Date          Status
Third on Farm Water Management                     5/21/91             ongoing
(Cr. 2245/Ln.3327)
Second Scarp Transition                            6/4/91              ongoing
(Cr. 2257)
Private Tubewell                                   4/11/89             ongoing
(Cr. 2257)
Second Irrigation Systems                          3/29/88             ongoing
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1888)
B.    LOAN DATA
(In USS Million equivalent)
As of June 8, 1992
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid         Oustandini
Loan 2986-PAK       200.00        200.00        --          --           200.00
C.    TIMETABLE
Original Loan Date(s)                Actual
Initiating Memorandum             August 30, 1985               October 5, 1985
Negotiations                                                    March 7-11, 1988
Letter of Development                                           'May 31, 1988
Policy
Board Approval                                                  August 2, 1988
Loan Signing                                                    'September 7, 1988
Effectiveness                     October 1, 1988               November 4, 1988
Tranche Release
2nd Tranche (USS100 M)                                        June 15, 1990
Closing Date                      June 30, 1990                 January 31, 1991
Accounts Closed                                                 June, 1991



17
D. CUMUlATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(In US$ Million)
FY89          FY90         FY91
(i)         Estimated                      100.00        180.30       200.00
(ii)        Actual                          60.29        119.65       200.00
(iil)       (ii) as % of (i)                60.29         66.36       100.00
E. USF OF LOANI
FY89        YY90         FY91         TOTAL
Million Dollars
Pesticides & Implements         50.02_                                  50.0
Pesticides                                   13.0                       13.0
DAP                                          53.53/      39.9           93.4
SOP                                           5.1                        5.1
NPK                              _                        4.1            4.1
Urea                             _           11.4        23.0           34.4
TOTAL                           50.0        83.0         67.0          200.0
Source:     MFAC (Coordinating Section), M/Finance (External Finance Section),
and mission estimates.
Notes:  1.  The year of loan use refers to the year in which the purchase
contract was made.
2.  Disbursements did not correspond to the years of contract.
l Figures have been rounded.
Retroactive financing for "Agricultural Imports".
3/ Including US$21.0 million to cover imports during the period of postponement of the second tranche release.



18
F. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
I. Staff Inmuts (Staff Weeks)
Y184  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  !Y90  1Y91    TOTAL
Preparation                 1.3      58.1   11.9          -        -        -         -        -            71.3
Appraisal                     -        -       10.6    20.7    43.4          -        -        -            74.7
Negotiations/                 -        -        -         -      13.0       1.8       -        -            14.8
Board Approval
Supervision                   -        -        -         -        0.2   24.9    22.5          8.0          57.6
TOTAL                       1.3   58.1  22.5  20.7  56.6  25.7  22.5   8.0    204.9
II. Mission Data
Time in      No. of         Specialization                      Staff        Date of
Date        Field         Persons                                            Weeks        Report
Preparation       FY 84-86    24.Owks           6           E, Eng                              71.3        Onty document
Appraisal         7/87         4.0 wks        _6            E. Eng                              74.7         July 8, 1988
Supervision I   12/88          18 dys           3           E, Eng                              13.6        Jan. 2, 1989
Supervision II  5/89           14 dys           3           E, Eng                              11.3         June 4, 1989
Supervision III 11/89           8 dys           2           E, Eng                              11.2         Jan. 1, 1990
Supervision IV  4/90            7 dys           3           E, Eng                               8.8        May 25, 1990
PCR               7/91          7 dys           1           E, Eng                               9.0         June 1992
E = Economist, Eng = Engineer



19
G.    INPUTS:  RETAIL SALE PRICES OF FERTILIZERS
(Rs per bag of 50 kg/110 lbs)
Date     Urea    AN/CAN       AS       NP       SSP      DAP      SOP       NPK
(46)     (26)      (21)   (23:23)   (18)   (18:46)  (50)  (10:20:20)
01.01.79   63.0      36.5      29.0      46.5    --        67.0    27.0    42.5
25.02.80   93.0      50.0      42.0      78.0    25.0    100.0    30.0    42.5
13.04.80   93.0      50.0      42.0      78.0    25.0    100.0       --      63.0
27.10.81   93.0      50.0      42.0      78.0    25.0    100.0    30.0    63.0
16.03.82  103.0      55.0      47.0      84.0    25.0    105.0    30.0    65.0
06.10.82  118.0      58.0      54.0      97.0    29.0    121.0    35.0    75.0
11.06.83  128.0      60.0      59.0    110.0    40.0    133.0    40.0    82.0
20.05.86    *         *         *       110.0    40.0    146.0    50.0    98.0
18.09.87    *         *         *       119.0    46.0    161.0    60.0   105.0
10.10.88    *         *         *       137.0    53.0    185.0    72.0   115.0
31.08.89    *         *         *      149.0    58.0    203.0    85.0   128.0
26.03.90    *         *         *      150.0    68.0    217.0   107.0   143.0
29.10.90    *         *         *       173.0    93.0    249.0   150.0   176.0
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics, and Food and Agricultural Division
(Economic Wing), MFAC.
AN/CAN    ammonium nitrate/calcium ammonium nitrate
AS        ammonium sulphate
NP        nitrophos
SSP       single super phosphate
DAP       diammonium phosphate
SOP       sulphate of potash
NPK       nitrogen phosphate and potash
*         not applicable after deregulation
Note:     Figures in parentheses are main nutrients in percent.



20
H. OUTPUTS: SUPPORT PROCUREMENT PRICES OF CROPS EMBRACED BY PRICE SUPPORT
PROGRAM
Crops                              Support Prices - Rupees per 40 KR.
1980-81  87-88   88-89   89-90   90-91   91-92
1. Sugarcane
(Mill Gate)
i)   NWFP                       9.38   11.52   12.32   13.50   15.25   16.75
ii)  Punjab                     9.65   11.79   12.59   13.75   15.25   16.75
iii) Sindh                      9.81   11.95   12.86   14.00   15.75   17.00
iv)  Baluchistan                 -        -        -       -        -      17.00
2. Rice (Paddy) (a)
i)   Basmati                   75.00  130.00  135.00  143.50    (d)   155.00
ii)  Irri-6 (FAQ)              38.58   55.00   60.00   66.00   73.00   78.00
iii) Irri-6 (Superior)           -      59.00   65.00   71.00   80.00   85.00
iv)  KS-282, DR-82               -      59.00   65.00   71.00   80.00   85.00
DR-83 (FAQ)                 -        -       -        -        -        -
v)   KS-282, DR-82               -      63.00   70.00   76.00   84.00        -
DR-83 (Superior)
3. Seed Cotton (Phutti)
i)    Desi                    156.00  173.50  176.50  191.50  220.00  255.00
ii)   AC-134-NT               160.00  185.00  188.00  203.00  235.00  270.00
iii)  B-557, 149-B            171.00  193.00  196.00  211.00  245.00  280.00
NAIB-78, Sarmast
Qulandri, CIM-70
Deltapine MS. 39/40
MS-84
iv)   K-68/69,93              182.00  207.00  210.00  225.00  260.00  290.00
MNH 93/129
4. Wheat (a)                      58.00   82.50   85.00   96.00  112.00  124.00
5. Gram  (b)                         -    160.50  180.00  200.00  210.00  230.00
6. Oilseeds (c)
i)   Sunflower                117.89  170.00  177.00  205.00  225.00  250.00
ii)  Soyabean                 107.17  160.00  165.00  185.00  200.00  230.00
iii) Safflower                 96.45  140.00  143.00  165.00  180.00  220.00
Source:  Economic Survey of Pakistan 1989-90, and Agricultural Prices Commission.
(a)     At purchasing centers (places designated)
(b)     At mandi level
(c)     At farm level
(d)     B/370    150.00
B 385    143.00
Lateefy  100.00



21
Annex 1
Page 1
CONDITIONS OF ASAL AND ACTIONS TAKEN
A. Actions Taken Before ASAL
Policy Areas                                  Actions
1.    Reallocation    of    public         Mainly in compliance vith the World
expenditures    from    input        Bank financed Structural Adjustment
subsidies  to  priority  water       Loan (approved June 1982) substantial
sector    and    agricultural        reallocation of expenditures began in
improvement projects.                1982-83.     Subsidy  reduction  on
fertilizers   and  pesticides   also
commenced and by July 1988 the only
important    fertilizers    being
subsidized vere DAP (35X), SOP (76X)
and  NPK  (63X).    This  issue  was
addressed under ASAL.
2.    Agricultural input and output        Since  FY77,  GOP  has  constantly
prices to be aligned with the        revieved and revised the prices of
long-term    t re n d    of          major  commodities.    Subsidies  on
international prices,                pesticides    and    nitrogenous
fertilizers  vere  eliminated.    An
Agricultural Prices Commission vas
set up in 1981 to continue the price
adjustment    process.        Further
improvement  in  these  areas  vas
envisaged under ASAL.
3.    Diversification of agriculture       An   oil   seed   development   plan
with  emphasis  on high value        providing   incentive   prices   and
crops such as edible oils and        support  services  to  promote  non-
fruits.                              traditional  oil  seeds  (sunflover,
safflover, soya beans) has been under
execution   since   the   mid-1980s.
However, it has met with mixed
success.      New   initiatives   are
necessary for a breakthrough.   The
horticultural subsector is receiving
considerable support from both the
public and private sectors, but it is
facing market constraints.



22
Annex 1
Page 2
B. Actions Taken to Meet Conditions of Effectiveness
1.    A Program Steering Committee          The   PSC   was   established   vith
(PSC) vith suitable composition      membership drawn, among others, from
and   povers   Vas   to   be          the  E in  implementing  agencies:
established.                         NFAC, Planning Commission, APCOM, and
Ministries of Finance and Commerce.
2.    A Program Coordinator was to be       The  Secretary,  MFAC was appointed
designated.                           Coordinator.   His  Joint  Secretary
served as member and Secretary of
PSC.
3.    Program Directors at different        This was done for all provinces.
locations    were    to    be
designated.
4.    A  Priority Investment Program        This was done.  But soon after, in
was to be formulated and agreed       December  1988,  the  Program  vas
with the Bank.                        revised and again agreed with the
Bank.
C. Actions Taken for Release of Second Tranche
1.    Targets for subsidy reduction         P  and  K  prices  were  raised  in
on P and K fertilizers vere to        September 1989 and again in March
be met.                               1990.  The first increase of lOX and
16X combined with the second, which
ranged from 7X for DAP to 26X for
SOP, fully met the agreed targets.
2.    Measures were to be adopted to        GOP prepared an action plan which
reduce the costs of fertilizer        provided  for  (a)  adoption  of  a
marketing and distribution,           formula for deciding on the share of
the    private    sector    in   the
distribution of fertilizers, (b)
involvement of the private sector in
planning fertilizer imports and their
distribution, and (c) increase of
port facilities to improve scheduling
of deliveries to meet peak demand.
3.    A  plan  based  on  the  water        The plan was approved by GOP and
charges    assessment    and          passed  on  to  the  provinces  for
collection  study  was  to  be        action.   It recommended separating
adopted.                              responsibilities for assessment and
collection, and increasing recoveries
where the gap between O&M



23
Page 3
expenditures   and  recoveries  was
signiflcant.   Details are given in
Section D.7 below.
4.    The    first-year    prlority        Fundlng level during FY89 fell short
investment program for vater         of estimated requlrements of CIP in
and agriculture sectors was to       both  the  vater  and  agriculture
be implemented.                      sectors.  The second tranche release
was postponed mainly for this reason
and due to slow action on some other
commitments.
5.    Recommendations of the rlce and      Due to late completion of the study,
cotton export operations study       review of  its recommendations  was
vere to be adopted.                  delayed from April to December 1989.
This, combined with other shortfalls,
contributed to the postponement of
the second tranche release.
D. Status of Legal Covenants
Strategies and Measures                    Implementation StAtus
1.    GOP and the Bank to exchange         Views   were  regularly   exchanged.
views from time to time on the       Progress  Reports  and Memoranda  of
progress   achieved   in   the       Understandings (MOUs) were prepared
Lmplementation  of  the  ASAL        to  focus  attention  on  required
Program    (Loan    Agreement,       actions.
Section 3.01).
2.    World   Bank  procedures   for       GOP followed World Bank procurement
procurement   of   goods   and       procedures.   With the agreement of
services   to   be   followed        the  World  Bank,   private  sector
(Section 3.02).                      importers were alloved to use thelr
own procedures for US$80 milllon
worth of imports.
3.    GOP  to  follow  World  Bank         This was done.
guidelines    in    employing
consultants  for  a  study  on
water and drainage charges
assessment   and   collection
(Sectlon 3.03).
4.    GOP to have Project Accounts,        The auditing requirements were met,
including   Special   Account,       but the audlt reports of  YY89 and
audlted   annually,   and   to       FY90 were submitted late.
furnish to the Bank a copy of



24
Annex 1
Page 4
the audit report not later than
six months after the end of
each   fiscal   year   (Section
3.04).
5.    GOP to eliminate the economic          Compliance  with  these  requirements
subsidy    for    phosphate           was partial.   A fertilizer pricing
fertilizers by October 1991 and       formula was agreed with the Bank and
potash fertilizers by October         the schedule for subsidy elimination
1995   through   annual   price       by agreed dates was maintained by
adjustments on the basis of an         increasing   fertilizer   prices   in
agreed formula (Section 3.05).         1989/90 (March 1990) between 7X and
26X (DAP and SOP respectively), and
further by l5X and 40X during 1990/91
(October  1990).   With  the  latter
price increases, targets were fully
met.    Hovever,  by  October  1991
subsidies had risen again to 1989
target levels.
6.    GOP  to  lower  the  cost  of          GOP approved an action plan which
fertilizer    marketing    and         increased the role of the private
distribution    by    (a)              sector in marketing and distribution.
rationalizing the allocation of       The private and public sector shares
responsibility between public          (60:40 in 1989) were to be revised on
and   private   sectors,   (b)         the   basis   of   their   respective
increasing  the  role  of  the        capacity.
private   sector   and,    (c)
facilitating the private sector
to play its intended role
(Section 3.06).
7.    GOP to undertake  a study on           The study was completed with a one-
improvement   of   water   and        year  delay.   The  action plan was
drainage charges assessment and       prepared by the Ministry of Water and
collection by March 1989;  to          Power  in  collaboration  with  the
review its findings with the           Provinces, and approved by GOP.  It
Bank and prepare an action plan       mainly stipulated (a) assigning water
by May 1989; and to cause the          charges assessment to one agency and
Provinces  to  implement  this         collection   to  another,   and  (b)
plan    to    improve    their         increasing charges more rapidly in
assessment    and    collection        those   Provinces   where   current
procedures (Section 3.07).             recoveries were significantly below
O&M expenditures.
The Provinces were slow to implement
the Plan, and the expected increases
in O&M cost recoveries have not yet
been realized. Following are the



25
Annex 1
Page 5
steps already taken:
(1)   Baluchistan and Sind are to
transfer assessment responsibilities
from the Board of Revenue to the
Irrigation and Pover Department.
Only Sind has done so.
(2) The Plan calls for streamlining
the water rate structure by reducing
the number of assessment categories
to five to eight.  Sind has reduced
the number of categories to six while
other Provinces are contemplating
doing the same.
B.    The  Provinces  to  adopt  a          Implementation is veak although GOP's
timetable to reach and maintain      commitment regarding full recovery of
full recovery of O&M costs of        O&M costs from beneficiaries remains
surface    irrigation    and         unchanged.
subsurface   saline   drainage
facilities through water and/or
drainage    charges    (Section
3.08).
(a) To that end, if by July 1,
1992, Punjab and Sind shall
have been unable to achieve
full O&M cost recovery despite
improvements in their vater and
drainage charges assessment and
collection procedures, GOP to
cause them:
(i)   if the shortfall is
expected to be less than 25X,
to adjust charges to make up
the shortfall and achieve full
recovery by July 1, 1993;
(ii)  lf the shortfall is
expected to be 25 or more but
less  than  40X,   to  adjust
charges,    through   periodic
increases satisfactory to the
Bank, to make up the shortfall
and achieve recovery by July 1,
1995; and
(iii) if the shortfall is
expected to be 40X or more, to
adjust charges, through



26
Annex 1
Page 6
periodic increases, to make up
the shortfall and achieve full
recovery by July 1, 1997.
(b) Thereafter, GOP to cause
Punjab and Sind to maintain
full O&M cost recovery and, to
that end, continue to adjust
their vater and/or drainage
charges as necessary.
(c)   GOP  to cause  NWFP and
Baluchistan to adjust their
vater and/or drainage charges
to the levels to vhich Punjab
and Sind shall have adjusted
their charges under paragraph
(a) and (b) above; provided,
hovever, that such adjustments
do not result in charges at
levels below those assessed in
FY88.
9.    GOP to cause the Provinces to          GOP has refrained from investment in
phase out all public tubevells         public tubevells in FGW areas.   In
in FGW areas (except in South         Punjab,  213  tubevells  have  been
Rohri and Ghotki areas in Sind)        privatized under the SCARP Transition
by  (a)  refraining  from  any         Pilot  Project.    The  Second  SCARP
future  investment  in nev  or         Transition  Project  covering  1346
replacement  tubevells  in FGW         public tubevells in Punjab and 380 in
areas; and (b) Punjab and Sind         Sind became effective in April 1992.
privatizing tubevells in FGW
areas as follovs: (i) under a
second SCALP transition project
in Punjab and pilot SCARMP
transition project in Sind by
June 1994 and, (ii) under other
SCARP projects, starting July
1994,    by    June    1998.
Feasibility studies for the
SCARP transition projects in
Punjab and Sind were to be
completed and furnished to the
Bank by June 1989, and for the
other SCARP projects by March
1993 (Section 3.09).
10.   A Priority Investment Program          The   Priority   Investment   Program
for the agriculture and water          (referred to as Core Investment



27
Page 7
sectors vas to be formulated          Program, CIP), establishment of which
for FY89-91  aimed  at:    (i)        was    a    condition    of    loan
improving    utilization    of        effectiveness, was prepared within
existing  assets, and raising          the  agreed   time.      However,  in
input  efficiency   and   crop        December 1988, it was revised with
yields;    (ii)    facilitating        Bank approval in  light of further
private  sector  participation         review of projects.   This covenant
in    input    distribution,          served   the   useful   purpose   of
marketing   of   agricultural          providing funds for priority projects
products,    groundwater               during  tight financial situations.
exploitation, and agricultural         There were shortfalls, nevertheless.
advisory  services;  and  (iii)        Despite a reduction in program size,
designing    new    irrigation         funding  fell  short  of  estimated
projects   based   on   water          requirements    due    to    budget
availability (Section 3.10).           constraints. Federal ADP allocations
for the water and agriculture sectors
in  FY89  were   98X  and  83X   of
provisions made in the core program
and    actual    expenditures    were
fractionally   less.        Provincial
allocations for the water sector
exceeded the CIP provisions except in
Sind. However, for the agricultural
sector, provincial allocations vere
less than 71X of provisions in all
provinces. In FY90, the federal ADP
provided 85X for agriculture and 72X
for  the  water  sector.    However,
during FY91, the federal allocation
for the water sector vas higher than
the CIP target, and for agriculture
it was 12X more than in FY90, which
was adequate for the program.
On the whole, CIP funding, although
short of targets, was satisfactory
seen in relation to other programs
and in the light of financial
difficulties.
11.   The    Agricultural    Prices          APCOM's  involvement in  determining
Commission  (APCOM) was to be          fertilizer prices has been valuable.
actively   involved   in   the         APCOM staff received training in the
determination of phosphate and         Bank on pricing methodology, and a
potash fertilizer prices, and          professional dialogue between APCOh
its methodology for formulating        and   Bank   staff   was   initiated.
price recommendations was to be        APCOM's   organization   has   been
reviewed ennually with the Bank        strengthened and its  influence has
(Section 3.11).                        grown, but it has not yet assumed the



28
Annex 1
Page 8
full role foreseen in the program.
12.   APCOM's work program vas to be        This vas done.
reviewed by the Bank annually
(Section 3.12).
13.   A  rice  and  cotton  export          The study was completed in December
operations  *tudy  was  to  be        1989, about eight months late.   It
carried out by GOP,  and its         was reviewed vith the Bank, and an
findings and a proposed action       action plan for improving the cost
plan revieved vith the Bank by        structure  of  the Rice  and  Cotton
April 1989 (Section 3.13).            Export  Corporations  vas  agreed  in
early 1990. Its main features were:
(i)   separation   of   export   and
procurement functions; (ii) promotion
of private sector involvement in
export of rice and cotton; and (iii)
administrative    and    technical
improvements.
The private sector is now active in
cotton exports and handles about half
of total exports. It has also become
involved in rice exports.



29
Annex 2
Page 1
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
POLICY STATEMENT ON THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Recent Development Performance
1.    Since the start of this decade, Pakistan's economy in general and the
agricultural sector in particular have undergone major structural changes
resulting in sustained high grovth rates in incomes and an improved standard of
living. While population has been groving at the rate of about 3X per annum, per
capita GDP has been increasing at about 4X per annum. Agriculture's contribution
to the overall performance of the economy has been equally notable. Today, the
agricultural sector supports 70X of the population, employs 52X of the labor
force, accounts for 55X of export earnings, and generates marketable surplus
production to meet the nation's basic food and fiber requirements.
2.    With the exception of the two successive crop failures in FY64 and FY85 due
to drought and pest attacks, the achievements hitherto of the agricultural sector
during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) have been remarkable in terms of
production, investment and physical targets. Compared to 1982/83, the base year
for the Sixth Plan, agricultural GDP in real terms increased by 24X by 1986/87.
The total area under the major crops (wheat, cotton and rice) also increased by
5.5% during the same period. As a result, the economy has attained self-
sufficiency in wheat, and generated groving export surpluses of cotton and rice.
These achievements were made possible by combination of appropriate production
incentives given to the farming community, a shift in public investment
priorities tovard fast-gestating and low-cost schemes, increased participation of
the private sector in input delivery and groundwater develogment, and improved
project implementation capability of the public sector. During this period, GOP
has phased out input subsidies for pesticides, seed, tractor hire and nitrogenous
fertilizer. To maintain adequate returns to the farmer, support prices for
agricultural output have been adjusted upvard and reflect comparable world market
prices. The Government has also replaced the wheat rationing system by a
modified system of releasing wheat at fixed prices to flour mills and traders
without any quota or restrictions. This, apart from reducing subsidies, will
also ensure stable food prices throughout the year in all parts of the country.
3.    Investments in the agricultural and vater sectors during the four years of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan have resulted in increased water availability by 7X,
irrigated area by 3.2 million acres, and fertilizer offtake by 30X, as compared
to the 1982/83 base year.
Sector Objectives
4.    As stated in the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the objectives for the
agricultural sector are to:



30
Annes 2
Page 2
(a) accelerate the modernization of the agricultural sector to achieve a grovth
rate substantially higher than the population grovth rate so that the
sector !     - -ste resources for sustained development of the economy vith
a high deg.ee of self-reliance;
(b) increase agricultural productivity so as to realize future increases in
agricultural production mainly from vertical expansion effectively over-
riding the limitation on area expansion imposed by liaited irrigation vater
supplies;
(c) consolidate self-sufficiency in grains and make a determined effort to
regain self-sufficiency in sugar production and reduce dependence on edible
oil imports;
(d) diversify agricultural production and rural employment opportunities by
giving more attention to high value products like fruits, vegetables,
oilseeds, meat, milk and poultry, and increasing their share in the
agricultural GDP;
(e) improve support price system and market mechanism in order to make the
system more effective, especially for oilseeds, pulses and horticultural
crops;
(f) bring about a major transformation in the productivity of the livestock
sector to meet the groving demand for milk and meat and to contribute to
the vell-being of less developed areas;
(g) evolve an integrated program for developing barani, riverine and
mountainous arAas as a part of a long-term program to arrest environmental
degradation and conserve the country's physical resources of forests, land
and water; and
(h) strengthen the institutional support and provide incentives for generating
export surpluses by encouraging crop specialization in the areas/regions
which have comparative cost advantages and resource endonment.
In order to meet these objectives, the Government plans to undertake a series of
policy and institutional reforms supported by a larger investment program on the
lines recomended by the National Commission on Agriculture in its report
submitted to the Government in April 1988.
Investment in Agriculture
5.          In the Sixth Five-Year Plan, Rs 39 billion vere allocated for the
agricultural and vater sectors. Although this represented an increase of 76X in
nominal terms over the Fifth Plan, the agriculture/water sectors' share in the



31
Page 3
public sector development program was to remain roughly unchanged at lt8. In
agriculture, particularly large increases were allocated to extension and
research, public grain storage, mechanization, livestock, forestry and fisheries.
In the water sector, particular emphasis was given to investments to rehabilitate
the deteriorated irrigation systems, relieve vaterlogging and salinity problems,
and increase the efficiency of vater use through on-farm and command vater
management programs. The unchanged share of the agriculture/water sectors called
for in the Plan reflected the Government's policy to encourage greater private
sector participation as against public provision of inputs (e.g.. in improved
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides), and to rationalize expenditures to obtain
output gains from existing infrastructure (irrigation systems rehabilitation and
water management projects), rather than undertaking major nev capital
investments.
6.          During the first four years of the Sixth Plan, the rates of
implementation in agriculture and water sectors were somewhat slower than
envisaged in the Plan. In addition to overall resource constraints, the
favorable increase in private sector activities, shortfalls in the vheat crop
reducing the need for storage, and the cost escalation/high interest charges
prolonging the completion of ongoing water projects, led to implementation lags.
In response to the under-fulfillment of the initial investment plan targets, the
Government undertook a major review of the investment program and identified a
core program in both the agriculture and water sectors which called for increased
allocation in the final three years of the revised plan. The provisional plan
implementation assessment in FY86-87 indicates a turn-around compared to previous
years and the allocation for FY87-88 would sustain the improved performance. The
estimated rate of implementation for the Sixth Plan is expected to reach 77X in
agriculture and 86X in the water sector as against 90X for the Plan as a vhole.
Under these circumstances, the thrust of Government policy towards increased
private sector participation and improved utilization of existing assets has been
maintained. Implementation rates are expected to be relatively high in areas
like agriculture education (182X), extension (131X), research (128J), irrigation
(104X), water management (117X), and relatively low in areas vhere the private
sector role has improved, viz., public storage (34X), improved seeds (59X), plant
protection (54X), and mechanization (77X). Only in drainage (82X) and flood
control (41X) has the performance been substantially lower than the Government
would like to have seen. Even so, in the past two years, performance in drainage
project implementation has improved significantly and ve would expect this trend
to continue.
7.          The shift in Government's investment priorities that has
characterized the Sixth Plan will be continued during the Seventh Plan in the
light of recommendations of the National Commission on Agriculture (NCA). The
Commission has proposed a comprehensive but practical agricultural strategy for
the next 12 years, up to the year 2000, with specific recommendations for the
Seventh Plan period (1988-1993). The main goals of the agricultural strategy
recommended by the Commission are to consolidate self-sufficiency ln grains, make
a determined effort to regain self-sufficiency in sugar and pulses, reduce
dependence on edible oil imports and accelerate the modernization of the



32
Annex 2
Page 4
agricultural sector to achieve a grovth of 5% per annum--substantially higher
than the population grovth rate, so that the, sector can generate resources for
the sustained development of the economy vit~h a high degree of self-reliance.
For achieving the desired increase in crop yields, the proposed strategy would
extend the use of available technologies for crops like vheat, cotton and rice to
a larger proportion of producers and to develop improved technology packages for
sugarcane, maize, coarse grains, oilseeds, pulses, fruits and vegetables and
extend the use of these packages to a significant number of farmers.
8.          The Commission has laid special emphasis on achieving agricultural
grovth vith social justice. A series of proposals have been made to secure the
vhole-hearted cooperation of farmers in the process of development. Special
attention has been given to the problems of the small farmers and landless rural
households. The Commission has recommended several measures to improve living
conditions in rural areas.
9.          A major thrust of the Commission's recommendations is the emphasis on
conservation and development of soil and vater resources. For this purpose, the
Commission has proposed improved arrangements to plan, coordinate and finance
several inter-related activities in the fieids of vatershed management, range
management and for the development of barani, arid and riverine areas.
10.         The NCA has also recognized the crucial role of private investment in
agriculture which is presently of the order of Rs 7 to 8 billion a year. It has
recommended that this should be raised to about Rs 17 billion a year during the
Seventh Plan. For this purpose, the credit availability thrust would be
increased substantially from about Rs 16 billion in 1986-87 to Rs 46 billion in
1992-93. Of this amount, Rs 16 billion vould be needed for development purposes.
11.         The investment priorities of the Seventh Plan will be based on these
recommendations and the proposed Water Sector Investment Planning Study. After
the approval of the Seventh Plan, a three-year priority investment program for
agricultural and water sectors vill be formtlated and its funding for the first
two years will be revieved vith the Bank in October 1988 and October 1989.
Resource Mobiiization
12.         During the past fev years, shortage of budgetary resources has
constrained the expansion of public sector programs. The Government has been
attempting to mobilize greater resources through the expansion of tax revenues,
improved cost recovery for goods and services provided through the budget or
through public enterprises and encouraging the increased private sector
participation in a number of areas. The agriculture sector is expected to
contribute to these efforts through gradual reductions in the subsidy on
fertilizers and the phasing out of public tubevells in fresh groundwater areas.



33
Annex 2
Page 5
Reduction of Fertilizer Subsidy
13.         Until recently, it has been the Government's policy to encourage
fertilizer use through price as well as non-price measures such as dissemination
of knowledge and credit. This policy has been very successful in increasing the
use of fertilizer and spreading the knowledge of its benefits. The Government
recognizes that it is nov time to shift emphasis towards greater reliance on non-
price measures. It is the Government's intention over the next four to eight
years to phase out the remaining economic subsidy on phosphatic and potassic
fertilizers, i.e., the difference between the domestic selling price and the
import parity equivalent, suitably smoothed to remove the effect of short-term
fluctuations. In 1986, the Government liberalized the market for nitrogenous
fertilizers. Selling prices are no longer fixed and imports, hitherto limited to
a public sector agency, have been opened up to the private sector. Together,
these measures vill prevent the re-emergence of any subsidy on nitrogenous
fertilizers except periodically on a temporary basis, if world prices rise above
their medium-term trends. As for the remaining non-nitrogenous fertilizers, the
Government's policy is to remove subsidies through price increases and expanding
private sector participation in marketing which vill reduce costs. Towards this
objective of sustained annual reductions in the unit economic subsidy, the
Government has recently reduced the unit economic subsidy rate for the folloving
fertilizer products: DAP from 29X to 25X, TSP from 41X to 40X, and SOP from 77X
to 73X. The remaining unit economic subsidy for all phosphate and complex
fertilizers will be phased out by the end of four years, and SOP by eight years,
in equal annual percentage point reductions, provided that international prices
of fertilizers do not rise significantly above medium-term trends. Subsidy
removal will be effected through annual price increases, marketing and incidental
cost savings, and rationalizing the allocation of imported fertilizer
distribution between public and private sectors vith a viev to reducing costs of
marketing and distribution. In addition, the Government will continue to reduce
subsidies by finding cheaper and equally effective substitutes for SOP. Progress
tovards elimination of economic subsidies would be monitored in annual reviews by
the Government and the Bank beginning in October 1988.
14.         With fertilizer use now more videly accepted in Pakistan, information
regarding the amounts and mixes appropriate in different local and soil
conditions has taken on added importance. Towards this objective, the Government
would continue to strengthen the soil fertility program in order to develop
appropriate recommendations for farmers.
O&M Cost Recovery of Irrigation Systems
15.         Pakistan's most valuable productive asset is its water resources.
The need to provide adequate funds to properly operate and maintain the
irrigation systems is fully recognized at all levels of Government. Since 1983-
84, the O&M budget, vhich absorbs 9X of the provincial non-development budgets,
has been groving at an annual rate of about 22% per annum. Hovever, the revenue



34
Annex 2
Page 6
collected from irrigated agriculture beneficiaries has not been commensurate vith
the expenditure levels. The GOP is fully convinced that the leading source of
the irrigation O&M expenditure subsidy is the uneconomic operation of the public
tubevells in fresh groundvater areas. These tubevells were originally installed
primarily for the purpose of arresting the rising vater table and utilizing the
discharge for supplemental irrigation. Having provided relief to vaterlogged
areas, the continuing operation of these tubevells is a major fiscal burden vhich
can be replaced by small capacity private tubewells, efficiently operated by
private farmers.
16.         With the assistance of the Bank, a pilot project to examine feasible
ways of shifting from public to private tubevells is currently under
implementation in Punjab Province. The incentive package includes provision of
the electricity network, financial support for drilling for diesel tubevells, a
grace period of up to three years for credit repayment, the choice of a flat rate
electric tariff and exemption from canal vater charges for a limited period.
Although it is too early to gather the lessons from the pilot project, the
farmers, response to the incentives provided has so far been encouraging.
17.         Towards the objective of promoting the role of the private sector in
the economy, the Government will not undertake any investments for nev or
replacement tubevells in FGW areas for public operation except for the completion
of the two ongoing externally assisted projects in South Rohri and Ghotki areas
of Sind Province. In addition, preparation of a Second SCARP Transition Project,
covering the remaining 1,800 tubevells in the SCARP I area of Punjab, and a SCARP
Transition Pilot Project covering about 400 tubevells in the North Rohri area of
Sind Province, would begin shortly to be completed by June 30, 1989. In
connection vith the Second SCARP Transition Project feasibility studies, the
Government vould also carry out a detailed inventory of all SCARP tubevells in
fresh groundwater areas to determine the time frame for phasing out the remaining
stock of SCARP tubevells. Subject to the feasibility studies, implementation of
the two projects will commence by FY90 and vould make a significant contribution
towards the Government's objective of completing the privatization of public
tubevells in Punjab and Sind. In this connection it is expected that a follow-up
tubevell privatization program covering the remaining public tubevells in Punjab
and Sind vould be initiated by March 1993. The terms of reference for these
follow-up projects would be completed and discussed with the World Bank during
the implementation of SCAR? I and North Rohri Transition Projects. For the South
Rohri and Ghotki projects, full cost recovery through water charges would be
achieved, or tubevell operations in these areas would be transferred to the
private sector by the year 2000.
18.         The Government's cost recovery target would focus on the O&M costs of
surface irrigation and subsurface drainage systems. To this end, the Government
has commissioned a study covering all the four provinces which vould examine the
potential for closing the gap between water charges and 05& costs through
improvements in assessment and collection procedures. The study, the terms of
reference for which have been issued, would be completed by March 31, 1989.



35
Page 7
Following its completion, a joint Government/Bank reviev would be held to draw up
an action program for implementation. Any outstanding recovery shortfall
folloving the implementation of the water charges assessment and collection
action program (July 1992) would be filled by water charges and/or drainage cess
adjustments. The full recovery target date would be established depending on the
outstanding recovery shortfall on July 1, 1992. Once full recovery is achieved,
vater rates vould be adjusted periodically to cover additional costs arising
through inflation or completion of new projects. For Baluchistan and NHFP, water
rate structures similar to Sind and Punjab would be applied. This would achieve
full cost recovery of O&N of schemes that are part of the Indus Basin system, but
would not be expected to achieve similar recovery rates from the high cost
schemes located in more inaccessible areas.
Institutional Develo2ment
19.         To sustain the development momentum achieved hitherto and to prepare
for the emerging challenges in maintaining adequate producer incentives, meeting
the competitive export markets and planning investment priorities in the water
sector, the Government has agreed with the Bank to undertake the following
programs.
Domestic SURoort Price Formulation
20.         Since the early 1980s, support prices for the major crops have been
determined by using various criteria including the export and import parity
prices for various commodities. It is recognized that there is no one
international price and that the world prices, in many cases, are highly volatile
and change substantially even over a short span of time. Hovever, on a trend
basis, the support prices of different commodities presently have been around
such trend-lines. In determining the prices, due consideration has been given to
'average' farmer's cost of production to ensure appropriate incentives. The
taxation of agriculture through low prices has almost ended as the support prices
for the crops (wheat, IRRI-rice, and cotton), as mentioned above, have been
brought in line with the 'international' trend-line prices, with the exception of
basmati rice where Pakistan is the major international producer. The prices of
sugarcane are presently higher than the international prices because of depressed
sugar prices due to the subsidized exports by some major exporting countries.
The creation of the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) has significantly
improved the Government's capacity for analyzing trends in prices, production and
marketing costs and farm budgets and for making timely and appropriate
recommendations concerning agricultural outputs and some inputs. In due course
of time, APCOM would be increasingly involved in recommending input prices like
fertilizers, pesticides and water rates. The National Commission on Agriculture
has stressed the need for expanding the scope of work of APCON and for
strengthening its analytical capacity. The Government intends to continue the
policy of making timely support price announcements based on various criteria



36
Annex 2
Page 8
being used by APCOM including the long-term trend of import and export parity
prices. The details of determining support prices, as done by APCOM, vould be
discussed periodically with the Bank starting October 1988.
21.         The Bank would also discuss from time to time, starting October 1988,
APCOM's work program for the coming years. This would include the training needs
of APCOM, support for training and improving APCOM's computer capacity.
Rice and Cotton Export Marketing Operations
22.         With the domestic prices close to international parity in many
instances, the scope for improved incentives to farmers must also be sought in
improvements in the efficiency of marketing and processing systems.  Towards this
end, the Government has already put in place a number of measures to increase
competition in the system.  In May 1986, the elimination of monopoly procurement
of basmati rice by the public sector Rice Export Corporation and the lifting of
the ban on the movement of basmati rice and wheat across district lines vas a
major initiative towards increasing competition and encouraging private sector
participation. More recently, we have ended the public sector export monopoly by
allowing the private sector to purchase quantities from the Cotton and Rice
Export Corporations for export. We are concerned about the size of the marketing
costs of the Cotton and Rice Export Corporations and have commissioned studies of
their marketing efficiency and the scope for possible improvement. The terms of
reference for these studies have been issued and upon their completion by
February 28, 1989, the results vould be reviewed with the Bank and an action
program and implementation schedule drawn up and agreed upon. We are also
attempting to increase efficiency and competition in the sugarcane sector through
initiation of the following measures: elimination of the requirement that the
sugarcane growers sell only to mills in their own zone; allowing mills to buy at
any price above the support price; the continuation of quality premiums for
higher extraction rates; and the encouragement of voluntary contracts between
mills and growers for packages of inputs such as credit, seed and fertilizer in
return for cane output.
Water Sector Investment Planning Study
23.         Planning the use of Pakistan's scarce vater resources is vital to the
economy. The last major planning effort in water resources was the preparation
of the Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture, published in 1979.
The time has come for a more systematic prioritization of the pipeline of
projects and a review of vater sector planning capabilities at the federal and
provincial levels. The Government has commissioned a study to prepare a medium-
term plan covering a ten-year investment program for the water sector and make
recommendations for establishing water sector planning cells in Provincial
Planning and Development Departments and for strengthening VAPDA's Planning
Division and the Federal Planning Ministry's Water Resources Section. The study,



37
Annex 2
Page 9
financed by the UNDF and executed by the World Bank, would start in August 1988
and would be completed by July 1989. The results of the study would be revieved
in July-September 1989 by GOP, UNDP and the World Bank and an appropriate
implementation program would be formulated.
Sd/ Saeed Ahmad Qureshi
Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, May 31, 1988



