Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
Report No. 14443
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1735-SE)
MAY 4, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Mrica Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1           =      CFAF 360 (at appraisal)
ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AGETIP       Agence d'Excution des Travaux d'Inter&t Publique
BPE          Bureau des Projets Education et Formation/Education Projects
Office
DCES         Direction des Constructions et de 1' Equipement Scolaires/
Directorate of School Construction and Equipment
DPRE         Direction de la Planification, de la Recherche et de
l'Evaluation[Directorate of Planning, Research and Evaluation
INEADE       Institut National d'Etude et d'Action pour le Developpement de
l'Education/National Pedagogical Institute
MEN          Ministere de l'Education NationalefMinistry of National
Education
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30 (at appraisal)
January 1 - December 31 (as of 1991)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 4, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUJBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Senegal
Primary Education Development Proiect (Credit 173 5-SE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Senegal - Primary Education
Development Project (Credit 1735-SE) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. A detailed
final report prepared by the Borrower has been included as Part II. Together, these documents
provide a frank and comprehensive account of project experience and outcomes.
The project had four major components: (a) a sector adjustment program
aiming at increasing the efficiency of primary education and at resource reallocation from the
post-primary, particularly the higher education level to primary schooling; (b) an institutional
development program; (c) a primary classroom building, rehabilitation and maintenance
program; and (d) a quality improvement program.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, with the exception of the resource
reallocation program which proved a complete (and, in the opinion of the Government,
predictable) failure. Institution building is rated as modest and the sustainability of the project
achievements as uncertain because of chronic budget constraints and unproven cost recovery
prospects.
Covenants were not always complied with, notably in the field of accounting
and auditing. The provision of adequate counterpart funds constituted a problem throughout
implementation.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This dclument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................                        i
Introduction .......................................                       i
Project Objectives .......................................                 i
Implementation Experience and Results ....................................... .    i
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned .......................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .
B.    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives.                              2
C.  Achievement of Objectives                       .3
D. Project Sustainability .6
E. Bank Performance                              .7
F.  Borrower Performance.                                                  8
G. Assessment of Outcomes.                                                 9
H. Key Lessons Learned.                                                    9
PART II: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1       Related Bank Loans/Credit
Table 2       Project Timetable
Table 3A      Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 3B      Country Exchange Rates
Table 4       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5       Studies Included in the Project
Table 6A      Project Costs
Table 6B      Project Financing
Table 7       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9       Bank Resources: Missions
MAP  -  IBRD 20043
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1735-SE)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary Education Development
Project in Senegal, for which Credit 1735-SE in the amount of SDR 10.2 million equivalent was
approved on October 14, 1986, and made effective on September 9, 1987.
The Credit was closed on March 23, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. It is expected to be fully disbursed, and the last disbursement is expected to take
place no later than July 31, 1994. Cofinancing for the project in the amount of 5.0 million UA was
provided by the African Development Bank.
The PCR was prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The borrower submitted a final
report, the main text of which is included as Part II of the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was begun following the Bank's final supervision mission in
July 1993. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation
of the PCR by submitting its own evaluation of the project's execution.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1735-SE)
Evaluation Summary
INTRODUCTION
1.           This project was the fifth Bank operation in the education sector in Senegal. The First
Education Project (Cr.253-SE, US$ 2.0 million, 1971) focused on improving the quality of technical and
agricultural education. The Second Education Project (Cr.530-SE, US$ 15.0 million, 1975) financed
science facilities, vocational training and rural youth training centers. The Third Education Project
(Cr.908-SE, US$ 26.5 million, 1979) supported educational research and planning, technical and
vocational education, training of agronomists, and enterprise management training.  The Regional
Management School Project (Cr.1638-SE, US$ 5.5 million, 1985) helped transform the business
management school financed under Education HI into a regional school for the six participating countries of
the West African Economic Community. All four projects have been completed.
PROJECT OBJECTVES
2.           The objectives of the Primary Education Development Project were to accelerate the
quantitative and qualitative development of primary education, reduce unit costs, improve resource
allocation and use in the education sector, and strengthen sector planning and management.
3.           The project consisted of four major components:
(a)    a sector adjustment program, designed to improve the efficiency of resource allocation
within the sector and lower per-student costs through more efficient use of teachers and facilities;
(b)    an institutional development program, designed to establish adequate planning, budgeting,
cost control and project coordination capacities in the Ministry of Education;
(c)    a classroom construction, rehabilitation and maintenance program, covering three of the
country's ten administrative regions; and
(d)    a quality improvement prograrn, supporting educational research, the establishment of a
student assessment scheme, in-service training for teachers and inspectors, and the production and
distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides.
4.           The credit agreement contained conditionalities lincking the release of funds for primary
classroom construction to the satisfactory implementation of policy measures related to resource allocation
and use, notably the containment of expenditures in post-primary education.



ii
5.           Given the low and stagnating primary school enrollment ratio and the declining quality of
primary education obtaining in the mid-1980s, the project's policy objectives and associated investment
program were timely, appropriate, and in line with the Bank's education sector policies.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
6.           Implementation of the sector adjustment program (SAP) had mixed results. The first SAP
objecti  - increasing primary enrollments from 549,000 in SY 1985/86 to 726,000 in SY 1993/94 through
more efficient use of teachers and facilities - was met in SY 1992/93 and has been exceeded since then. All
efficiency measures related to this objective were implemented as agreed: INEADE developed and
introduced an experimental programn of double-shift and multi-grade teaching in 75 urban and 25 rural
classrooms, respectively, in the second and third years of project implementation (1987 and 1988), and
trained teachers in the use of these techniques as planned at appraisal. On the basis of a positive evaluation
of this pilot operation, the concept of double-shift and multi-grade teaching was accepted by both parents
and the MIEN as a viable way to improve access to education, and these teaching methods were extended to
over 1,400 urban and 270 rural classrooms by SY 1991/92. Together, they accounted for an enrollment
increase of about 120,000 students. Eighty percent of new primary teachers were recruited at the assistant
level (instituteur adjoint), as agreed, at 30% savings in salary costs. About 1,260 non-teaching staff were
redeployed from administrative jobs to classroom teaching positions (against a target of 400 at appraisal),
and student:teacher ratios in teacher training colleges were almost doubled, from 7:1 to 13:1, as agreed.
7.           The second SAP objective - containing expenditures at post-primary levels and
realocating funds thus made available to primary education - was not achieved. Specific agreements on
quantitative targets for reducing higher education expenditures (containment of student bursaries,
reductions in subsidies for housing, feeding, transport and medical care) were not met. On the contrary,
sharply rising university enrollments caused expenditures on bursaries and social services to increase, from
about 40% of the higher education budget in 1987/88 to 58% in 1992/93, contributing to an increase in
expenditures on higher education from about 15% of the total education budget in 1986 to about 25% in
1992. As a result, anticipated budget re-allocations from higher to primary education were not made. In
fact, the share of the education budget allocated to primary education remained at about the same level
during the project period (between 46% and 48%).
8.           Institutional development objectives were only partially met, as transfer of knowledge from
expatriate to local staff did not take place as expected, and a considerable number of local staff trained
under the project did not stay in the jobs for which they were trained. Quality improvement objectives were
largely met, particularly with respect to education research, school inspectorates, and the provision of
textbooks and teachers' manuals. All civil works components were completed as planned.
9.           The project was implemented within overall cost estimates (in SDR) set at appraisal.
However, major reallocations between disbursement categories were made, particularly for civil works
whose allocation was increased by about 80%. Community participation in classroom construction and
maintenance was difficult to organize and very time consuming, and the level of community contnbution
was considerably lower than anticipated (only 75 out of 400 classrooms were built with community help).
To speed up implementation, a major portion of classroom construction was contracted out to local firms.
Government counterpart funding was problematic throughout project implementation, both for recurrent
and investment costs, and the level of Government financing was less than half the appraisal figure.
Cofinancing was provided by the AfDB (5.0 million UA) on a timely basis and components financed by the



iii
AfDB were implemented as agreed. The project was implemented well within the timetable set at
appraisal, and completed about one year ahead of schedule.
10.          Key factors that affected achievement of project objectives included: (i) acceptance by
parents and teachers to experiment with and implement efficiency measures such as double-shift and multi-
grade teaching; (ii) provision by Government of the necessary recurrent budgets to recruit teachers for the
expanding school system, in spite of increasingly difficult economic conditions; and (iii) good and
consistent supervision work by both the Government and the Bank, and willingness to adjust plans and
programs to deal with unexpected difficulties.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11.   Among the key lessons learned from this project are the following:
(a)    Although the policy package of this project was well designed, Government was not
committed to implement the politically difficult measures in higher education, particularly when faced
with vested interests and protests from pressure groups. This lack of commitment is attributable, in
part, to inadequate or ineffective consultation with those most concerned by those policy changes (i.e.
university management, staff and students), particularly during project preparation and appraisal, and
the lack of a mechanism to keep a participatory, consultative process on policy issues alive during
project implementation. To the contrary, supervision missions were advised by the Minister of
Education not to visit the university to pursue policy discussions or check up on compliance with
agreed policy measures. The Bank's decision not to apply the leverage that could have been used to
curb higher education expenditures (block disbursements for primary classroom construction) and
pressure the Government to discuss higher education policies, gave the Government the signal that the
Bank was not very serious about policy conditionalities.
(b)    Community participation in school construction requires a clear understanding between
all parties concerned as regards the level and method of their respective contributions to the program,
laid down in the form of a contract so that in case of default the Government can be legally bound to
finance the shortfall. In Senegal, the ability of communities to contribute to school construction was
not realistically assessed at appraisal, and in the end communities contributed to about 125 classrooms
out of 400 planned, with the credit making up the difference. Mobilizing communities to contribute to
school construction can also be very time-consuming and labor-intensive, and may require considerable
technical support and supervision from the implementing agency. In the case of Senegal, the cost of
supervising community-assisted school construction was about 24% of the total cost of construction,
two or three times higher than supervision costs normally charged by contractors.
(c)    Capacity building demands more detailed analysis and planning than it received during
this project's preparation and appraisal, and a well worked out plan for supervising and supporting
these efforts during implementation. It was not sufficient for the project to provide for training of
local staff without adequately assesssing the institutional capacity and incentive structure to retain staff
once trained. Poor working conditions, lack of logistic support and low salaries contributed to more
than 50% of staff trained under the project to leave Government service soon after completing training,
which helps explain why Government continued to use technical asisstance in substitution for nationals,
instead of building up local capacities.



iv
(d)    Government did not provide its counterpart contribution to the project as stipulated in
the credit agreement (contributing less than 50% of its agreed share), which resulted in implementation
delays and the eventual reallocation of credit proceeds to make up the shortfall. To address this
problem, consideration should be given to requiring Government to make up-front deposits of its
counterpart contribution into a special account at the start of the fiscal year, or at specified intervals, as
a condition for release of credit funds for the period. The legal agreement would give IDA the option
to suspend dibursements if Government fails to make its deposits as agreed (solutions of this type are
being applied in the infrastructure sector in AF5) .
12.           Pre-investment studies carried out during the project supported the preparation of a follow-
up project in primary education (Second Human Resource Development Project, Cr.2473-SE, 1994). They
also provided valuable quantitative information to facilitate policy discussions in higher education and
prepare an investment program in that sub-sector. Detailed analytical work on the restructuring of the
vocational training system, financed under the project's studies program, is expected to lead to a project in
that sub-sector, pending Govermment decisions on policy matters.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1735-SE)
Project Identity
Project Name         Primary Education Development Project
Credit Number       :1735-SE
Credit Amount       : 10.2 million SDR
RVP Unit            : Africa Region
Country             : Senegal
Sector              : Education
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.           Sector Development Objectives. The Government's objectives for the development of
education were shaped by the results of a national commission on education reform (CNREF) which
recommended, in 1984, that Senegal's education system should be equitable, efficient and responsive to
national needs. The Commnission established three priority actions: (a) the expansion of primary education,
with an intermediate target of increasing the enrollment ratio of the 7-12 age group from 52% in 1985 to
60% in 1989 (the plan period) and fuD enrolment by the year 2000; (b) the introduction of a new education
structure, with ten years of compulsory schooling (primary plus lower-secondary, ages 7-16), followed by
three years of general secondary education or professional training, and higher education of varying kinds
and duration; and (c) changes in curriculum content including a polytechnic or polyvalent orientation, the
introduction of national languages, and moral and religious education. As the financial implications of
these changes were not fully worked out, the Government decided on an experimental phase of the reform,
to be implemented on a Limited scale, carefully evaluated, and extended if justified by the results obtained.
Tfhe project supported these objectives, with the addition of a package of policy measures aimed at
improving the efficiency of resource use.
2.           Linkages between Project. Sector. and Macro Policy Objectives. The Government's
education sector development objectives of the mid-1980s complemented the structural adjustment
programs of the 1985-1992 period, which focused on improving the management of public resources.
Policy measures introduced under the project explicitly supported improved resource managemt. They
fel into two categories: (a) measures to lower unit costs through more efficient use of teachers and
facilities (recruiting assistant-level teachers, redeploying teachers from administrative posts to the
classroom, introducing double-shift and multi-grade teaching methods, and imposing higher student/teacher
ratios); and (b) measures to contain expenditures, particularly at post-primary levels (reducing student
subsidies, introducing cost recovery, and establishing ceilings on the growth of recurrent expenditures for
secondary and higher education), thereby allowing for the reallocation of funds from secondary and higher
education to primary education.



2
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTVES
3.     Project Objectives:  The objectives of the project were to accelerate the quantitative and
qualitative development of primary education, improve resource allocation and use in the sector, reduce
unit costs, and strengthen sector planning and management.
4.     Project Description: The project consisted of a sector adjustment program and an investment
program with three main components, as follows:
a)     a sector adjustment progran. designed to (i) lower unit costs through the more efficient use
of teachers and facilities, thereby helping to increase primary school enrollznents from 549,000 in
1985/86 to 726,000 in 1993/94, or 32% in eight years; and (ii) increase resources for primary
education by reducing expenditures in higher education and transferring the resulting "savings" to
primary education.
(b)    an institutional development program  designed to establish adequate planning, budgeting,
cost control and project coordination capacities in the Ministry of Education, by providing
specialist services, staff training, equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs for (i) the
Directorate of Studies and Planning; (ii) a Physical Facilities Unit to oversee school construction
and maintenance; and (iii) an Education Projects Office to coordinate the implementation of the
Ministry's investment program.
(c)    a classroom construction. rehabilitation and maintenance pro rant consisting of (i) the
construction of 400 low-cost, low-maintenance classrooms in three of the country's ten regions; (ii)
the rehabilitation of 100 classrooms; and (iii) the implementation of a preventive school
maintenance program.
(d)    a quality improvement program  designed to increase the effectiveness of teachers in the
classroom, through educational research that included an experimental education reformn program,
a student assessment scheme, in-service training for teachers and inspectors, and the production
and distribution of about one million textbooks and 61,000 teachers' guides.
5.     Evaluation: Proiect Objectives. The conceptual foundation of the project was sound. The
objectives of expanding access to primary education and improving education quality were consistent with
the Government's development strategies and in line with the Bank's education sector policies. Project
design recognized that resources allocated to primary education would need to be substantially increased,
and proposed to find these resources by introducing efficiency measures and by reallocating funds within
the education budget in favor of primary education. The latter - transferring funds from higher to primary
education - tumed out to be a flaw in project design, on two counts: First, the Bank underestimated the
political fallout (including strikes and riots) that would result from taking away acquired rights of
university students to generous scholarships and social support services (housing, medical care, transport,
meals), and overestimated the strength of Govemment's commitment to push such unpopular policy
measures through. Second, higher education authorities were not very motivated to implement difficult
policy changes without investments, and preferred to maintain the status quo. As a result, budget savings
were not made and transfers from higher to primary education did not take place. The broad question of
project design was raised by the SVP at the decision memorandum stage.



3
6.    Project Design. The project was conservative in scope and correctly took account of the linited
implementation capacities of the Ministry of Education and its agencies. It had several innovative features,
such as the introduction of multi-grade and double-shift teaching in primary education as an internal
efficiency measure, the involvement of communities in classroom construction and maintenance as a way to
foster ownership and reduce the burden on the Govermnent's investment budget, and the revision of
curricula and the development of textbooks that were better attuned to local conditions. The project was
well prepared, with clear implementation plans and targets to be reached, as evidenced by the excellent
implementation documents prepared prior and during implementation. These contributed to the successful
implementation of the investment component.
7.    Responsibility for Project Implementation:  Responsibility for implementing policies and
investments in primary education was correctly allocated to existing units of the MEN, and coordinated by
the Education Projects Office (BPE) established under the project within the MEN.  However,
responsibility for implementing policy measures in higher education was much less clear.  First,
responsibility for higher education shifted during implementation, from the Minister of Education in 1986
to a newly-created Minister of Higher Education in 1988, and back again following a ministerial
restructuring in 1991. Further, although the Minister of Education (or Higher Education) was nominally
responsible, implementation of policy measures depended on the cooperation of the quasi-autonomous
University, which was asked to introduce these measures but did not derive any financial benefits from the
project. Bank supervision missions, when attempting to explain to the university authorities the rationale
behind and the need for introducing sometimes difficult policy measures, were discouraged by the Ministry
to visit the university, a clear indication of the Government's lack of commitment to policy changes in
higher education.
8.    Risks: The SAR correctly identified project risks as (i) delays in the construction of primary
schools owing to MEN's limited implementation capacity and untested cost-sharing arrangements with
conmmunities; and (ii) failure to fully achieve the sector adjustment measures, particularly in higher
education. The first risk was addressed late in the project cycle when it became apparent that neither the
MEN's planning unit (with respect to school mapping) nor its school construction unit (with respect to
planning, managing and supervising school construction) was competent to handle the modest 400-
classroom construction program, in spite of significant project support in terms of staff training, technical
assistance and logistics. Eventually, in 1993, two other models of managing the remaining school
construction program were tried, the first by an NGO (Aide et Action which had experience in classroom
construction), and the second by a non-Governmental agency (AGETIP), which had an established track
record in managing small civil works contracts. Both agencies quickly completed the remaining civil works
program, at lower unit cost. This experience led the MEN to delegate the management of the civil works
program under the follow-up IDA project (Cr. 2473-SE) to AGETIP.
9.    The second risk - containment of subsidies in higher education, a conditionality for release of funds
for the second and third tranches of primary school construction - was not vigorously addressed under the
project. Conditionalities were eventually waived, and efficiency measures in higher education deferred to
an upcoming higher education project.
C.    ACEVIEMEmNT OF OBJECT1ES
10.          Policy Objectives: The Sector Adjustment Program (SAP). The SAP's first objective
was to increase primary enrollments from 549,000 in SY 1985/86 to 726,000 by 1993/94 by lowering unit
costs through more efficient use of teachers and facilities. This was to be accomplished by applying five



4
efficiency measures: (i) recruitment and training of 80 percent of new teachers at the instituteur adjoint
(assistant) level to eventually reach a ratio of tnstftuteur adjoint/insfftuteur of 47:53; (ii) redeployment of
400 teachers from administrative positions to classroom teaching by 1991; (iii) experimentation with and
introduction of double-shift teaching in 75 urban and multi-grade teaching in 25 rural classrooms by SY
1989/90; (iv) increase of student teacher ratios in teacher training colleges to about 15:1 by SY 1988/89;
and (v) consolidation of specialized civil service training schools by 1988/89, based on a study to be
conducted in 1987. The SAP's second objective was to increase the primary education budget by
containing expenditures in higher education and reallocating funds thus made available to primary
education. Three measures were foreseen: (i) reduce the fellowship budget by 26% in real terms; (ii)
reduce indirect subsidies (student support services) in real terms by 51% by 1994; and (iii) introduce cost
recovery systems such as student loans. Also, ceilings were to be set on the growth of administrative
expenditures, for a cumulative reduction of 7.7% in real terms by 1994.
11.          With respect to the first objective, primary enrollments increased faster than projected,
from 549,000 in 1985/86 to 738,000 by 1992/93, to a significant degree as a result of the introduction of
double-shift and mulit-grade teaching, which accounted for 120,000 additional students being
accommodated, and to a lesser degree through the new classrooms constructed during that period. The 400
classrooms financed by the IDA credit contributed only marginally (about 20,000 student places) to the
enrollment increase. The rate of increase (at 4.2% p.a.), however, was only slightly higher than the
population growth rate (averaging about 3.0%) so that the proportion of the school-age population enrolled
increased only marginally, from 54% to 59% over the period.
12.          By 1992, eighty percent of new primary  teachers were recruited and deployed as
"inshtuteur adjoint" (assistant teacher), as agreed, at 30% savings in salary costs. About 1,260 non-
teaching staff were redeployed from administrative jobs to classroom teaching positions, three times the
appraisal target. After experimentation in 1987 and 1988, double-shift teaching was finnly established by
1992 in about 1,400 urban classrooms and multi-grade teaching in 270 rural classrooms, more than ten
times appraisal targets. Student:teacher ratios in teacher training colleges were doubled to 15: 1, as agreed.
A study on civil service training schools was conducted, but its recommendations were not implemented.
On balance, though, the Government was conmmitted to this part of the policy adjustment programn.
13.          With respect to the second objective, measures to contain expenditures in higher education
and transfer cost savings to primary education were not implemented as agreed. On the contrary: higher
education's share of the education budget increased from 23% in 1986/87 to 26% in 1992/93 because of
sharply rising enrollments at the university (from about 5,000 students in 1985 to approximately 21,000 in
1993), with corresponding increases in expenditures for scholarships and subsidies (up from 40% of the
higher education budget in 1986/87 to 58% by 1992/3). Not surprisingly, the planned increase in primary
education's share of the total education budget did not materialize (it fluctuated between 46 and 48%).
14.          The student subsidy question, a key policy measure, was never resolved, in part because of
continuing and sometimes violent student protest, and vocal opposition of faculty staff. The leverage that
could have been exercised to curb higher education expenditures - i.e. blocking the release of Credit funds
for the second and third tranches of primary school construction - was not used. The reasons advanced by
the Bank for this action were that: (a) all adjustment measures related to primary education were
successfully implemented; (b) spending on higher education, as a percentage of total education
expenditures, was not considered excessive (it was, in fact, lower than in most Sahelian countries); and (c)
political turmoil needed to be avoided in difficult economic times. Eventually, the Bank decided not to
penalize primary education for lack of progress in resolving higher education financing problems, and the



5
Govemment was asked to deal with these under an upcoming higher education restructuring program.
15.          The SAP was supported by an extensive program of studies (Annex Table 5). These
focused on the expansion of primary education, the development of educational planning, efficiency
improvements in secondary and technical education, efficiency improvements in higher education, and
sector planning and financing. Studies were completed as planned; those in secondary and higher education
were expanded to include eight pre-investment studies for a planned operation in technical and vocational
education. Technical assistance and local staff training programs were adequately integrated with the
studies program.
16.          Institutional Development Objectives:  Institutional development objectives were
partially met. First, the MEN's Directorate of Planning, Research and Studies (DPRE), which benefited
from long-term technical assistance, extensive local staff training in-country (113 people) and overseas (6
senior staff), and the provision of computer equipment and programs, had, halfway through the project,
developed a reasonable capacity for educational planning and budgeting, data collection and analysis,
publication of statistical yearbooks, and school mapping. However, management of the DPRE was
consistently weak, staff tum-over high and motivation low, and in the end the unit failed to establish itself
as the intellectual heart of the ministry. During preparation of the follow-up project (Second Human
Resources Development Project, Credit 2473-SE), low capacity of the planning department was cited as a
limiting factor in implementation.
17.          The physical facilities planning unit (DPI), set up in the Directorate of School
Construction (DCES) to plan and manage the MEN's school construction and maintenance program, did
not meet its responsibility. Systems and procedures set up with help from extemal expertise were not
maintained after the technical assistance left, equipment was not maintained, and the DCES got sidetracked
into school maintenance (which was not its main function, but which it executed successfully). At project
end, responsibility for managing the MEN's school construction program was transferred from the DCES
to the private sector (AGETIP), and the DCES was downgraded from a directorate to a division within the
MEN's Directorate of Management and Administration, responsible for rehabilitation and maintenance.
18.          The education projects office (BPE) was established as planned and eventually developed
an acceptable capacity for project coordination and administration. However, the BPE was, in the end,
grossly overstaffed, with marginally qualified people, and the competence of the unit was questionable.
Two long-term technical assistance staff - a pedagogue/planner recruited for two years to coordinate the
pedagogical aspects of the project, and an administrator recruited for one year to set up the project's
management and accounting systems - stayed on for the entire six-year project period. The Bank continued
to approve Government's requests for extending these TA positions. The Govemrnment, for its part, failed to
recruit Senegalese nationals as counterparts to the two expatriate staff so that, at project end, these key
positions were still not occupied by nationals.
19.          Quality Improvement Objectives:  There were three major quality improvement
components: (a) strengthening the national pedagogical institute (INEADE); (b) improving the primary
schools inspectorate; and (c) producing and distributing textbooks. INEADE successfully carried out its
mandate of introducing the education reform program through a pilot operation in 100 primary schools,
evaluated the results of this experiment, and provided pedagogical support to the education system. The
inspectorate system was strengthened at the regional and departmental levels through staff training and
logistic support, and has become capable of providing support to teachers and school principals at the
school level (additional support for the inspectorates is provided under Cr.2473-SE).



6
20.          INEADE also set up a capacity to develop manuscripts and produce textbooks and
teachers guides, and at project end more than 1.5 million textbooks and teachers' guides were procured,
exceeding appraisal targets by about 30%. The distribution of textbooks to schools, however, tumed out to
be very difficult to organize using the MEN's facilities and personnel, and was eventually tumed over to the
private sector using some 60 commercial outlets. Cost recovery through the sale of books was
implemented under the project as agreed, but was not adequate during the first two years to finance the cost
of replenishing book stocks due to the limited number of sales outlets at that time. The scheme laid the
foundation for a financially self-sustaining textbook system under the follow-up project (Cr. 2473-SE).
21.          Physical Objectives:  There were no critical variances between planned and actual
implementation of the investment program, with most quantitative targets achieved as planned.
22.          The objective of the classroom construction program (400 classrooms in three project
regions) was achieved. The project's philosophy of community participation in classroom construction was
found to be extremely time-consuming, with considerable variations in approach from one locality to the
other, and costly because of the need for extensive technical assistance to mobilize communities and assist
with the construction process (supervision costs represented about 24% of total construction costs). With
this approach, managed by the DCES, it took more than four years to complete 100 classrooms, one
quarter of the total - obviously an unacceptable pace. Nevertheless, it was shown that community
participation can be a viable option for school construction provided that supervisory assistance is intensive
and well-organized, construction methods adapted to local practices, and community contributions well
understood and within the capacity of villagers to deliver. An emergency program of 100 classrooms in the
Dakar area, responding to pressing needs for classroom space, was approved by IDA on an exceptional
basis and quickly completed by private contractors at high unit costs (US$ 18,000 per classroom).
Because of slow implementation progress with the MEN-managed construction program, the third phase
was split into three parts, divided between DCES (30 classrooms), an NGO (45 ) and AGETIP (100), with
the objective of testing out the best approach for use in future projects. The work was completed on time
by the three parties, at relatively low unit costs (US$ 11,000 per classroom). The excellent experience with
private sector management of school construction, including community participation, led the Government
to use AGETIP as its contract management agency for school construction under the follow-up project (Cr.
2473-SE).
23.          The classroom rehabilitation program was successfully irnplemented by the DCES and
appraisal targets were met. About 1,000 maintenance guides were prepared and distributed and almost 700
tool kits provided to about 460 primary schools in the three project regions, along with some construction
materials. An important element of the program was an information carnpaign to help sensitize authorities
and villagers to the need for school maintenance, while the availability of tools and materials motivated a
number of school principals and parent-teachers associations to organize rraintenance committees and
implement regular maintenance programs.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILT
24.          Major components of the project are sustainable. The textbook scheme, for example, was
designed to be self-financing in that proceeds from sales of books to parents or students were to be
deposited into a revolving fund used to finance the replenishment of book stocks. Set up and tested under
the project, the system is being expanded country-wide under the ongoing education project (Cr. 2473-SE)
and is expected to be self-sustaining. The school maintenance program introduced under the project is



7
sustainable, provided that the Government continues to make the (relatively small) budgetary provisions for
maintenance materials begun under this project. Efficiency measures in primary education introduced
under the project are also sustainable (continued application of double-shift and multi-grade teaching,
recruiting instituteurs-adjoints instead of instituteurs), although their cost-saving effects will become less
pronounced as the education system matures and these measures are fully applied on a national scale.
25.           Capacity building efforts were successful in the short term, as local staff were trained in
areas such as educational planning and management and began to fill key positions in the MIEN.
Paradoxically, however, their training and growing expertise made them attractive candidates for more
lucrative or challenging jobs outside the public service and many of them joined the private sector or
international organizations (including the World Bank). Clearly, capacity building will require additional
attention in follow-up operations, probably in the form of short-term expertise for specific well-defined
tasks and through long-term twinning arrangements with external institutions having the necessary
expertise. This approach is being implemented under the follow-up project (Cr. 2473-SE).
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
26.           Project preparation took four years, from issue of the IEPS in September 1983 to credit
effectiveness in September 1987, providing a long lead time for consensus building and for agreeing on
major policy issues. The appraisal mission considered the Government's plans for development of the
sector too ambitious and correctly took its weak implementation capacity into account in designing the
project, focusing on key policy measures and institutional strengthening. The project's financial package
was well balanced, with the IDA credit accounting for 61% of project costs, the AfDB for 27% (classroom
maintenance, institutional strengthening of INEADE and textbooks), and the Government and communities
for the remaining 12%. Relations were considered good with other agencies established in Dakar, but
decidedly weak with the AfDB, the major cofinancing partner in the project. (There is, for example, no
evidence of any joint IDA-AfDB project supervision missions). There were detailed implementation plans
for each project component, which helped structure the IDA supervision process. Performance indicators
were not explicitly developed, although the legal covenants provided a good framework for checking
implementation progress, especially with respect to the policy package.
27.           During the almost six years of project implementation, from effectiveness in September
1987 to completion in December 1993, there were ten supervision missions. The first six missions
consisted of only two persons - an education economist or planner and an architect - whose attention
focused mainly (and understandably) on implementation of the sector adjustment programn, and on
contractual and procurement issues. The composition of later missions was more polyvalent through the
addition of education and textbook specialists, and more attention was paid to educational content and
quality issues (textbook production, teacher training, the functioning of the inspectorates and the
application of the education reform). The resident mission also began to play a more active role in
supervision, with an operations officer specifically assigned to follow up on ongoing activities and
participate in the semi-annual supervision missions. Continuity in mission staffing as well as headquarters
support was adequate. Although not officially reported as supervision missions, some supervision work
was carried out during the later stages of the project, when a follow-up project was being prepared.
28.           There was no formal mid-term review of project perfornance. However, the supervision
missions of June 1988 and November 1990 conducted comprehensive reviews of project performance in
connection with the second and third tranche releases for the classroom construction program. These
reviews however focused on the implementation of the sector adjustment program, not on details of



8
physical progress.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.           Government participated actively in project preparation and, with the help of external and
local consultants, conducted a large number of well-prepared pre-investment studies for consideration by
the Bank's appraisal team. At credit effectiveness, the project unit (BPE) was established, a local director
appointed, and the unit was off to a quick start. The initial focus was (correctly) on starting up the
classroom construction and maintenance program, implementing the pilot program for education reform,
developing the textbook component, and strengthening the MEN's planning capacity. On balance, project
management was competent throughout implementation, in spite of frequent changes in managers (five
directors in six years). There were, however, too many local staff - 23 at project end, where about half
would have sufficed. The BPE was supported by two long-term technical assistants: an education adviser
and a project administrator. The major weakness of this setup was that the BPE directors tended to rely on
the two TA staff and did not seriously seek to replace them with Senegalese professionals. The few
Senegalese that were recruited as counterparts for the administrator's position were not satisfactory and left
after a short period of time. Conversely, the TA staff were not motivated to find and train local
counterparts and remained on staff for six years, until project completion.
30.           Government's performance in implementing the policy package was decidedly mixed.
Efficiency measures in primary education were implemented as agreed and objectives were met or
exceeded, thus demonstrating Government's commitment to the expansion of primary education. However,
Government was clearly not committed (or lacked the political courage) to implement policy measures
designed to contain expenditures in higher education, with the result that the agreed transfer of resources
from higher to primary education did not take place and primary education did not expand at the rate it
could have done.
31.           Cumbersome administrative procedures within the MEN, aggravated by long delays in
contract approvals by the tender board, were a major cause of implementation delays, particularly in the
school construction program. The lack of counterpart funds for project expenditures (20% of the cost of
civil works and 20% of incremental operating costs) was a continuing problem which was never resolved.
Although budgeted, counterpart funds were not released by the Ministry of Finance when needed (or not
released at all) and some contractors resorted to padding their accounts so that the IDA portion (80%) of
the inflated contract price would cover their actual costs. In the end, the Government contributed only
about 50% of its agreed counterpart contribution to the total project cost (Annex Table 6B).
32.           There were continuing problems with the financial management of the project, ranging
from incorrect recording of expenditures, mistakes in withdrawals from the special accounts, inadequate
intemal controls, and late or incomplete submissions of audit reports. It is difficult to understand why
these problems did occur, given the presence of a full-time (expatriate) financial manager in the project unit
and the availability of qualified intemational auditors in Dakar.
33.           Coordination between the various implementing units and the BPE, and contacts between
the BPE and the Bank were generally adequate. Serni-annual progress reports were produced on time, and
in sufficient detail. Financial reporting, however, was weak throughout project implementation, an
observation which is confirmed by the annual audit reports.



9
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
34.          Overall performance of the project is rated "satisfactory". Major policy objectives in
primary education were achieved. This provided a solid basis for developing the policy framework
and investment program for the follow-up operation, which again focuses on primary education
(Cr.2473-SE). Policy objectives in higher education were not achieved, despite continued dialogue
between the Bank and the Government on the importance of controlling the growth of higher education
expenditures. When it became clear that no progress was going to be made, these issues were deferred
to a follow-up operation, a free-standing higher education project, currently under preparation. The
project's physical objectives were met, with civil works components completed and educational
equipment, furniture and textbooks delivered as planned. Institutional and capacity building objectives
were partially met but turned out not to be sustainable. They need further attention under follow-up
operations.
35.          With respect to improving education content and quality, the project was largely
successful. As a result of the project, Senegal's education system has become more coherent in its
objectives and structure and more relevant, as demonstrated by the availability of good quality
textbooks, the participation of parents and communities in the educational process, the introduction and
acceptance of double-shift teaching as a viable method of increasing enrollments, the strengthened role
of the inspectorates, and the introduction (on a pilot basis) of pedagogical innovations.
36.          Project implementation suffered from serious institutional and management problems.
Important among these were the Government's cumbersome procurement procedures, the long delays
in getting bid documents processed and approved, and the slow passage of documents through the
central tender board.  Despite reasonably competent Senegalese project directors and long-term
technical assistance, the operation of the education projects office (BPE) of the MEN was inefficient:
there were too many staff, some of whom were insufficiently qualified, and internal procedures for
moving the paperwork through the system were not well developed.
H.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.          Among the key lessons learned from this project are the following:
(a)    Although the policy package of this project was well designed, Government
was not committed to implement the politically difficult measures in higher education, particularly
when faced with vested interests and protests from pressure groups. This lack of commitment is
attributable, in part, to inadequate or ineffective consultation with those most concerned by those
policy changes (i.e. university management, staff and students), particularly during project preparation
and appraisal, and the lack of a mechanism to keep a participatory, consultative process on policy
issues alive during project implementation. To the contrary, supervision missions were advised by the
Minister of Education not to visit the university to pursue policy discussions or check up on
compliance with agreed policy measures. The Bank's decision not to apply the leverage that could
have been used to curb higher education expenditures (block disbursements for primary classroom
construction) and pressure the Government to discuss higher education policies, gave the Government
the signal that the Bank was not very serious about policy conditionalities.
(b)    Community participation in school construction requires a clear understanding between
all parties concerned as regards the level and method of their respective contributions to the program,



10
laid down in the form of a contract so that in case of default the Government can be legally bound to
finance the shortfall. In Senegal, the ability of communities to contribute to school construction was
not realistically assessed at appraisal, and in the end communities contributed to about 125 classrooms
out of 400 planned, with the credit making up the difference. Mobilizing communities to contribute to
school construction can also be very time-consuming and labor-intensive, and may require considerable
technical support and supervision from the implementing agency. In the case of Senegal, the cost of
supervising community-assisted school construction was about 24% of the total cost of construction,
two or three times higher than supervision costs normally charged by contractors.
(c)    Capacity building demands more detailed analysis and planning than it received during
this project's preparation and appraisal, and a well worked out plan for supervising and supporting
these efforts during implementation. It was not sufficient for the project to provide for training of
local staff without adequately assesssing the institutional capacity and incentive structure to retain staff
once trained. Poor working conditions, lack of logistic support and low salaries contributed to more
than 50% of staff trained under the project to leave Government service soon after completing training,
which helps explain why Government continued to use technical asisstance in substitution for nationals,
instead of building up local capacities.
(d)    Government did not provide its counterpart contribution to the project as stipulated in
the credit agreement (contributing less than 50% of its agreed share), which resulted in implementation
delays and the eventual reallocation of credit proceeds to make up the shortfall. To address this
problem, consideration should be given to requiring Government to make up-front deposits of its
counterpart contribution into a special account at the start of the fiscal year, or at specified intervals, as
a condition for release of credit funds for the period. The legal agreement would give IDA the optVon
to suspend dibursements if Government fails to make its deposits as agreed (solutions of this .,  are
being applied in the infrastructure sector in AF5) .



11
PART II: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION       CREDIT: IDA No. 1735-SE
EDUCATION PROJECT               LOAN: BAD No. CS/SN/ED/87/014
COORDINATION UNIT (UCP)
P.O.B. 822--DAKAR
Tel.: (221) 22.43.54
(221) 22.36.46
Fax: (221) 22.34.65
COUNTRY:          SENEGAL
PROJECT:          PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
EXECUTING AGENCY: MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
FINAL REPORT ON
EDUCATION PROJECT IV
May 1994



12
SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION (REVIEW OF PREVIOUS PROJECTS)
1. Education Project I
2. Education Project II
3. Education Project m
4 Education Project IV
B. PROJECT PREPARATION FRAMEWORK
1. The Educational Context
2. The Economic Context
3. Project Objective
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS OF EACH COMPONENT
1. The Sectoral Adjustment Program (SAP)
2. Strengthening of the Directorate of Planning, Research and Studies (DERP)
3. Strengthening of the Directorate of School Construction and Equipment (DCES)
4. Rehabilitation of 100 Classrooms
5. Establishment of a System for Preventive Maintenance of the Schools
6. Construction of 400 Primary School Classrooms
7. Strengthening of the National Pedagogical Institute (INEADE)
8. Strengthening of the Primary Education Inspectorate
9. Publication of Textbooks
D. IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS
1. Project Management and Internal Performance
2. Impact on the Initial Costs and Objectives
3. National Counterpart Funding
4. Procedural Constraints
5. Medium and Long-Term Effects of the Projects



13
A.   INTRODUCTION (REVIEW OF PREVIOUS PROJECTS)
Since 1972, Senegal has at regular intervals received World Bank loans for the
development of education. They included the three successive projects described below.
1.    Education Project I, for which the credit agreement was issued in 1972, was aimed
primarily at technical teaching. It financed:
*   the Institut Universitaire de Technologie, now known as ENSUT
*   the Ecole Normale Superieure Universitaire de Technologie (now known as ENSETP)
*   the Lycee Technique Peytavin
*   upgrading of the Ecole d'Agriculture de Ziguinchor
*   the study on upgrading of the Ecole de Formation Maritime
2.    Education Project II, funded by a 1975 credit agreement to strengthen scientific and
technological teaching by expanding the field of nonfornal education, financed:
*   the construction and outfitting of eight scientific and technical units for secondary-level
classes
*   the construction and outfitting of four middle-level schools
*   the construction and outfitting of five middle-level centers of practical teaching
3   upgrading of the Centre National de Qualification Professionnelle (CNPQ)
3   strengthening of maritime training
3.    Education Project m, under a 1979 credit agreement, covered an even broader field by
adding support for primary education to the strengthening of scientific and technical courses.
The project's activities were directed at the following areas:
L.   Primary education
*     Creation of the Institut National d'Etude et d'Action pour le
Ddveloppement de l'Education (INEADE)--for which equipment, study
grants and expert advice were provided
*     Construction and outfitting of the Ecole Normale Regionale (ENR) at
Kolda
*     Construction of 82 elementary-level classrooms, with the use of local
materials
u.   Technical and vocational courses
*     An increase in the capabilities of ENSUT and ENSETP; refurbishing of
the Delafosse and Peytavin technical schools; and strengthening of the
CNQP



14
iii.   School of Agriculture: the Institut National de D6veloppement Rural (INDR) at
Thies--construction and outfitting of the premises, plus technical assistance and
training scholarships
iv.  In the management field:  the Ecole Superieure de Gestion (CESAG)-
construction, outfitting and training courses
4.    Education Project IV, which went into effect on July 17, 1987, was aimed at
quantitative and qualitative development of primary teaching as defined in the following
paragraphs, mainly in three disadvantaged regions: Diourbel, Fatick and Louga.
B. PROJECT PREPARATION FRAMEWORK
1.    THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
The high point in preparation of Project Four was undoubtedly the meeting of the Etats
Generaux de l'Education et de la Formation (EGEF), which revealed the low level of school
attendance in Senegal and the failure of teaching quality to meet the country's needs and
expectations.
The consensus which emerged at that meeting created the master Ecole Nouvelle project;
targeting of the goal to achieve universal school coverage by the year 2000; the revision of
current curricula; and the defining of long-term priorities and strategies.
2.    THE ECONOMIC CONTEXT
For Senegal--as for the rest of the countries in the region--the 1980s were a period of
economic crisis sparked by a variety of causes, both endogenous and exogenous. Faced with
that situation, Senegal adopted an austerity policy. It featured the 1980-1984 Economic and
Financial Revitalization Plan (Plan de Redressement Economique et Financier--PREF) and the
1985-1992 Medium and Long-Term Structural Adjustment Plan (Plan d'Ajustement Structurel
a Moyen et Long Terme--PAML). The chief purpose of both plans was to restore the
macroeconomic and financial balances needed for sustainable growth.
In this context, the different sectors were called upon to redouble their efforts to
maximize the existing potential and resources.
That was the scenario in which Education Project IV was designed to take into account
the objectives set forth in the Seventh Economic and Social Plan for the education sector, to wit:
quick growth of elementary school classes and implementation of the reform envisaged--which
explains why the "Primary Education Development Project" is first and foremost a strategic
program adhering to the general principles of the Structural Adjustment Plan (Plan d'Ajustement
Structurel-PAS).



l 5
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The Government's goal for the year 2000 is universal school attendance. Given the 3 %
annual growth rate for the school-age population and the dismal level of overall enrollment (52 %
in 1986), however, unless some changes are made in the present schedule of outlays in the
primary school sector and its share (about 23 %) of the total operating budget, the enrollment rate
will drop back to 38%. Accordingly, the general purpose of the project is to help the
Government spur qualitative and quantitative development of primary education within the
framework of the structural and sectoral adjustment programs by using education-oriented
resources more effectively and strengthening the sector's institutions. Priority in doing so would
be assigned to the primary schools.
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS OF EACH COMPONENT
The Fourth Project is only one of several stages in the long-terrn process leading to
universal school attendance and implementation of the educational reform, and it is from this
vantage point that the various components cited below should be considered, without losing sight
of the requisite interaction between quantitative and qualitative development.
The interventions of this phase of the project are confined to the Diourbel, Fatick and
Louga regions, particularly because of the low level of school achievement posted in that area.
1.    THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAP?
1.    Objectives
Objective 1: To boost primary enrollments from 549,000 in SY 1985/1986 to 726,000 in
1993/1994. This will require the following measures:
a.  an increase in the ratio of instituteurs-adjoints/instituteurs (assistant teachers to regular
teachers) from 47:53 at the start of the project to 80:20 by the time it is completed.
b.  the redeployment of 400 teachers currently engaged in central and regional administrative
positions [to classroom teaching].
c.  the institution of a system that calls for double shifts and multigrade classes and will
allow an increase of 20,000 in enrollment without any additional impact on the budget.
d.  provision for more rational use of normal school faculty by cutting the ratio of professors
to students from 1:7 to 1:15.
Objective 2: To increase the primary education budget, which will entail:
a.  a cutback in the financing of higher education by means of
*   a 26% reduction in the fellowship budget
*   the introduction of a student loan system



l6
*   a 51 % slash in the real value of student support services (COUD) by SY
1994/1995
b.  holding the rate of budgetary increases to
*   1 % for the central administration office
*   1.5% for secondary education
*   1 % for higher education
These steps are designed to increase the enrollments by 180.000 students--including 18.00 from
the three project regions--between 1986 and 1995.
2. Results obtained
Objective 1. The following results were achieved in regard to this goal:
a.  At the national level, real attendance reached 738,560 students in SY 1992/1993-i.e.,
one year before the target date with a net increase of 189.6students.
b.  In the three regions covered by the project, the anticipated increase is 35% higher than
the estimates, since 24.280 students were enrolled instead of the 18,000 originally
envisaged.
REGIONS       1985/86         1992/93  NET DIFFERENCE    P4          (no
DIOURBEL    24,500            31,390             6,890              28.1
FATICK        35,900          45,620            9,720               27.1
LOUGA         23.,900         31.57             7.670               32.1
TOTALS        84,300          108,580            1,280              23.6
SENEGAL  549,000              738,560            189,560            34.5
c.    The ratio of assistant teachers to regular teachers rose from 29:71 in SY 1987/1988 to
58:42 in SY 1992/1993. Progress in this respect seems slower than anticipated.
d.    The number of teachers redeployed was not the 400 contemplated but a total of 1,262
since the start of the project-in other words, three times the target figure.



17
e.     Use of the double shift system started as of the first year of the project. The evaluation
showed the following results:
SCHOOL YEAR                        CDF                  CMG
1987/88                             506
1988/89                             780
1989/90                            1,040                223
1990/91                            1,362                142
1991/92                            1,412                271
1992/93                            1,031                208
By the end of that period (1992/93), the gain in additional enrollments consisted of
122,000 students. This resulted in cost savings of approximately four billion CFA francs.
f.     The assignment of professors at normal schools reached a ratio of 1:13 for the entire
group in that category.
Objective 2.  This goal appears to be the least realistic of those set since the project was
originally conceived. The results obtained failed to live up to expectations.
e    There was no reduction in the volume of expenditures on higher education. Quite the
contrary: the figure continued to  rise steadily.   The budgets of the different
subcomponents underwent the following changes:
Higher Education
Teaching Budget                                        Cumulative %
School Year    (Billions of CFAF)   Fellowships          Coud         (a) (b) (a) +
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~(b)
1987/1988           11.1               3.0               1.4               39.6
1988/1989           11.2               3.2               1.4               41.1
1989/1990           14.1               3.5               3.4               48.9
1990/1991           15.8               3.6               3.5               44.9
1991/1992           14.4               3.6               3.9               52.1
1992/1993           16.8               5.5               4.3               58.3



1B
The secondary education budget also underwent constant changes between 1988 and
1993.
Budget Education
(Billions of          Secondary                   Administation
School Year       CFAF)                Education                     Centml
1987/1988              48,0           12,4          25S,8           1,7            3,5
1988/1989              52,4           14,1          26,9            1,8            3,4
1989/1990              62,5           14,2          22,7            1,8            2,9
1990/1991              60,3           14,5          24,0            1,8            3,0
1991/1992              61,7           12,7          20,7            1,7            2,7
1992/1993              67,0           14,3          21,3            2,6            3,9
CO NCLUSIOI
All in all, the various components of the Sectoral Adjustment Program have been
implemented. Perceptible results were obtained, and some of them even exceed the target goals.
The major constraint--which was, after all, foreseen--consists of the inability to control the
growth of the budget for higher and secondary education.
2.  STRENGTHENING OF TIHE DIRECTORATE OF PLANNING. RESEARCH
AND STUDIES (DPRE)
1. Objectives
The Directorate of Planning, Research and Evaluation (DPRE) is specifically responsible
for:
a.   planning school attendance rates at each level of education; estimating the needs for
budgetary resources; and identifying ways to generate the necessary financing;
b.   setting up a system  to monitor costs and conducting the annual reviews of the
expenditures and budget for education;
c.   gathering and analyzing demographic, school attendance and budgetary statistics for the
entire sector and publishing them each year;
d.   including urban areas and secondary education in school mapping (la carte scolaire);



1S
e.  holding annual seminars for the regional and departmental staff on statistics, school
mapping and the projection of real demand for school enrollment.
2.    Specific studies
Study No. 1: Factors determining the demand for enrollment in rural areas
*   To define the strategy and costs for extending primary education to the rural area.
Study No. 2: Financing the expansion of primary education
*   To identify the measures needed to heighten the efficacy with which resources are
allocated to and used for primary education.
Study No. 3: Determination of school mapping
*   To ensure that the planning process extends the process of school mapping to rural area
and post-primary levels.
Study No. 4: Improving the efficiency of general secondary education and technical courses
*    To identify the areas in which secondary and technical courses could be taught more
efficiently.
Study No. 5: Heightening the efficacy of higher education
*   To identify the areas in which higher education could be made more efficient.
All of these studies constitute individual components of a sectoral planning process which
from now on will be used to determine the optimum growth rate of enrollments at each teaching
level, along with the corresponding financial and budgetary consequences.
This program is the centerpiece of the project. Its execution should provide new bases
for expanding the program for the development of education and the definition of new priorities.
3. Assistance utilized
The Directorate of Planning and Educational Reform (the former DPRE) received:
*   52 man-months of grants for studies abroad
*   48 man-months of technical assistance (UNESCO-CIEM) in the fields of education
economics, school mapping and higher education)
*   Courses for the training of 113 agents in school mapping for the IREE and EDEE, plus
a study trip to Tunisia for the core team
*   Data processing equipment, logistical support and assistance in management operation



2C
4. Results obtained
*   Implementation of the SAP
*   The completion of 12 studies (7 of them on higher education)
*   Annual distribution of the statistics yearbook.
CONCLUSION
All things considered, although there has been a certain amount of improvement in the
component, the development and implementation of school mapping failed to produce the results
targeted by the project. The same is true of the cost control mechanism and budgetary analysis.
From the operational standpoint, the planning system has not yet crossed the line that separates
the daily handling of data in the provisional approach and those used as a basis for decision-
making.
3.    STRENGTHENING OF THE DIRECTORATE OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
AND EOUrPMENT (DCES)
In view of the initiatives espoused by local groups and communities in regard to school
construction, the project seeks to reinforce that input in various ways through physical works:
rehabilitation, maintenance and the building of new classrooms.
1.    Objectives
a.   Creation of a Physical Facilities Planning Unit (Division du Patrimoine et de
l'Information--DPI) within the DCES;
b.  Decentralization of operations in the three regions of the project by setting up regional
technical coordinators (CTRs);
The duties of the new division would consist of:
c.  Constant updating of a computerized inventory of assets;
d.  Yearly drafting of the plans and budgets for the maintenance, rehabilitation and
enlargement of schools; and
e.  The establishment of construction standards.
2.    Assistance utilized
*   11 man-months of overseas study
*   Technical assistance missions (SCAAN, APOGEE and PERIGEE)
*   Data processing and logistical equipment
*   Operational support for the division.



21
3.    Results obtained
*   Survey of school assets
*   Assignment of 3 regional technical coordinators (CTRs), one for each region
*   Utilization of GESPAT software
*   Setting of 1990 price schedules.
CONCLUSION
Although installation of a technical coordinator in each region resulted in better handling
of local problems, the overall objectives were not achieved in their entirety for a number of
reasons: human, organizational and institutional factors, among others.
The most glaring weakness of this component consisted of the difficulties encountered
in setting up the Physical Facilities Planning Unit (DPI).
4.    REHABILITATION OF 100 CLASSROOMS
1.    Objectives
One hundred classrooms were to be refurbished in the project areas, along with repairs
and completion of furnishings where needed.
2.    Assistance utilized
*   three man-months of technical assistance
3.    Results obtained
*   The rehabilitation of 102 classrooms, distributed as follows:
Louga       22
Fatick      47
Diourbel    33
CONCLUSION
The component was satisfactorily executed.



22
5.    ESTABLISHMENT OF A SYSTEM FOR PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE OF
T1FE SCHOOLS
1.    Obiectives
a.  To alert the beneficiaries and users of the schools (communities, parents' associations,
school superintendents and teachers as well as the students themselves) to the need to
perform maintenance and small-scale repairs.
b.  To ensure effective attention to the items required inside each school, following
indications provided by the technical coordinators.
The project ensures:
a.    The preparation of a maintenance guide (2,500 copies)
b.    Training for school superintendents and teachers
c.    The provision of 3,500 tool kits and supplies of materials
d.    The services of specialists, and
e.    The defraying of operating expenses.
2.    Assistance utilized
-   33 man-months of advisory services
-   3,509 man-days of in-country training (44 local seminars), distributed as follows:
Louga       14
Diourbel    13
Fatick      17
3.    Results obtained
*   The distribution of 688 tool kits plus construction materials (through the 461 target
schools):
Diourbel          176 kits
Fatick            299 kits
Louga             213 kits
*   The design and distribution of posters emphasizing preventive maintenance and audio-
visual aids (film and video)
*   The production and distribution of a maintenance guide (1,000 copies)
*   The organization of a "maintenance committee" in each region
*   An information campaign designed to apprise the authorities and the populace of the
project activities.



CONCLUSION
The component is rated as completely successful, provided that its activities are continued
after the termination of the present project.
6.    CONSTRUCTION OF 400 PRIMARY SCHOOL CLASSROOMS
1 .    Objectives
In order to set up a school construction program with the communities, the project's
goals were:
a.  To draw up plans for low-cost construction and maintenance of classrooms, patterned on
traditional and widely adaptable models;
b.  To use the plans cited above to build 400 classrooms in three stages (50, 175 and 175
units), with the help of a construction guide that is to be distributed.
The Directorate of School Construction and Equipment (DCES) was asked to evaluate
each stage from the standpoints of: adaptation of the plans so as to arrive at standardized outlays;
the extent to which the population took part; and any problems encountered in implementation.
The necessary changes would then be made prior to execution of the following stage.
The construction would be jointly ensured by the technical coordinators and the
communities, under the supervision of the DCES.
The credit was granted to finance: 100% of the construction materials; 80% of the
skilled labor; the school furnishings; local training for the communities; and the cost of printing
the construction guides.
2.    Assistance utilized
0     65.5 man-months of advisory services.



24
3.    Results obtained
The construction of 400 classrooms in three stages (see table below).
Number of
Classrooms                      Unit Cost/M2    Construction
Phase            Built            Site          (in US$)      Method Used
I                    50  Louga       14         243        Community
Diourbel: 14          208        participation
Fatick   : 22         178
II                   100  Dakar (city)                      Private
75  Louga  .                           enterprise
Diourbel:                        Community
Fatick   .                        participation
mII                  175  Louga  .               177        AGETIP (100)
Diourbel:             177        NGO
assistance &
Fatick                133         activities (45)
DCES (30)
CONCLUSION
The 400-classroom program was completed in five years. Only one fourth of that
number were built in accordance with the original concept of community participation. The
transferral to and construction of 100 classrooms in the city of Dakar does not appear to have
been a relevant addition to the project, and it triggered an excessive increase in the costs of the
component (395 million CFAF), even though the initial expenses actually dropped by more than
30%.
Implementation of this component fell far short of the objectives, decisions and the
accomplishments originally envisaged.
7.    STRENGTHENING  OF THE NATIONAL PEDAGOGICAL INSTIJTE
(INSTlTUT NATIONAL D'ETUDE ET D'ACTION POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'EDUCATION--INEADE)
This component directly addresses the concerns as to the quality of education by
preparing the INEADE for the task of carrying out pedagogical innovations.



25
1.    Objectives
a.  To adapt study programs and develop appropriate instruction methods and teaching
materials, based on research and trial use in the classroom.
b.  To compile batteries of tests, starting with the areas of French language and mathematics,
and use them to evaluate the progress made by the students.
c.  To set up ongoing training programs for primary school teachers and inspectors.
d.  To develop the structure and contents of the revised program of initial training for
assistant teachers, in collaboration with the normal schools and the Directorate of
Primary Education.
e.  To conduct pilot testing in 25 multigrade classrooms and 75 double-shift classes and
utilize the results thereof.
2.    Assistance received
*   65 man-months of advisory services (SODETEG)
*   112 man-months of grants for overseas study
*   In-country training in the areas of innovation, research and evaluation (8,170 man-days)
*   Operational support for the component
*   Construction of a new INEADE building (delivered in July 1992).
3.    Results achieved
X   Restructuring of the INEADE pursuant to decree (June 1987)
X   Evaluation of the CDFs and pilot classrooms (July 1989)
*   Establishment of the pilot schools and monitoring of trials in 100 pilot classrooms
*   Training of teaching personnel and inspectors in the new methods (research)
*   Study on pre-evaluation of the reform (July 1991)
*   Design and execution of school projects.
CONCLUSION
Execution of this component enabled INEADE to become a pedagogical research and
training institution of note.
8.    STRENGTHENING OF THE PRIMARY SCHOOL INSPECTORATE
Since educational reform only materizes in the classroom and through the teachers, the
role of the inspectors is critical as a source of pedagogical support and control.



26
1.    Objectiv
In the context of carrying out the decentralization policy at the regional and departmental
levels:
a.  To upgrade educational planning and improve management of the staff, the budget and
the equipment.
b.  To strengthen the support and supervision of teachers.
c.  To reinforce the role of pedagogical helpmeet assigned to the assistant inspectors of
primary education.
2.    Assistance utilized
*   20 man-months of advisory services
*   50 man-months of overseas study grants
*   1,720 man-days of in-country training (seminars)
*   Six national seminars on innovation and system management
X   Logistical support for the IREE/IDEE and the component.
3.    Results obtained
3   Preparation and distribution of teaching material for all IREE and IDEE training courses
3   Installation of regional structures (school mapping)
*   Undertaking of innovations and on-site teacher training by the inspectors
*   Drafting of the proposed decree creating and organizing the Academic Inspections
CONCLUSION
The objectives of this component were accomplished except in regard to
'decentralization.' The project execution period was not long enough to allow effective
instruments to be set up and decentralization measures to be taken.
9.   PUBLICATION OF TEXTBOOKS
1.    Objectives
The main purpose of this component is to produce and distribute textbooks consonant
with the new programs for primary grades.
The intermediate objectives consist of:



27
a.  Setting up a "Textbook Publishing Unit' (Unite d'Edition de Manuels Scolaires-UlEM
that will compile, edit and publish the new manuals: 1,072,000 student texts (one book
for every two pupils) and 61,000 teachers' guides.
b.  Reducing the price to 30% less than the market figure.
c.  Establishing royalty payments through a leasing system.
d. Setting up a fund to finance additional printings.
2.    Assistance utilized
*   20 man-months of advisory services (SODETEG)
*   18 man-months of scholarships for overseas studies
*   In-country training in the drafting of manuals and textbooks
(1,297 man-hours).



28
3.      Results obtaine
*       The production of 1,267,930 textbooks, including 39,300 teachers' guides, (in four
successive stages).
DIRECT
STAGE              TITLES PUBLISHED                  CLASS             NO. OF            SALES
I __________    __________________________                            C O PIES
1        SIDI AND RAMA: Student readers    Cl                           160,000   CM1/2 15,400
1989190     Mathematics: Student workbooks      Ci                         160,000   CM1/2  3,230
Mathematics: Teacher's manuals      CIUCP                       5,000   CM1/2   300
French Language: Teacher's manuals   CUCP                       5,000
Practical Training: Textbook        Cl/CP                       5,000
2         SIDIA AND RAMA: Student readers   CP                          135,000
1990/91     Mathematics: Student workbooks      CP                         135,000
SIDI AND RAMA: Student readers    CE1                         135,000
SIDI AND RAMA: Student readers    CE2                         120,000
3         SIDI AND RAMA Math:
1991/92       Student textbooks                 CE1                        120,000
SIDI AND RAMA Math:
Student textbooks                 CE2                       110,000
Mathematics: Teacher's manuals      CE1/CE2                     6,000
French grammar: Teacher's manuals    CE1/CE2                    6,000
Practical training: Teacher's manuals   CE1/CE2                 6,000
4         SIDI AND RAMA: Student readers    CM1                         135,000
1992/93     French textbook: Teacher's manuals    CM1/2                      6,000
Reprints of    Student readers                    CI                         60,000
Stages 1     Sturdent readers                    CP                         60,000
and 2      Student readers                      CE1                        45,000
CE2                        50,000
TOTALS                                                              1,464,000            18,980
Student textbooks                           1,425,000           18,630
Teacher's manuab                              39,000              300
*     Acquisition, remodeling and outfitting of warehouses and outlets
*     Establishment of a sales and leasing system based on one book per pupil
*     Reduction of selling price to more than 50%  below the market figure
*     Setting up of the FEMEN  Fund, using the proceeds from  nonprofit sales of 385,000
school books.



29
CONCLUSION
This component-which is one of the most 'visiblew parts of the project--has been
obviously successful, even surpassing the target goals established.
D. IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS
1.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL PERFORMANCE
The Education Projects Office (BPE), initially under the Ministry of Equipment, was
transferred at the end of Project Three to the Ministry of National Education. This seemed to
be a logical move, since the overall project fell exclusively within the education sector.
Going back for a moment to Project Three, it should be noted that the transfer occurred
as a result of a report citing the failure to accomplish the agreed qualitative and substantive
objectives. It was assumed that the education policy elements set forth in the credit agreement
could be achieved by managing the education project in the same way as a construction project.
The ex post evaluation on execution of Project Three is edifying in this respect.
As to the BPE operating capacity, after completion of its task of executing Education
Project Four and in the light of six years of activity, the following conclusions may be reached:
(i) When compared with the previous situation (Project Three), progress has
unquestionably been made. The main targets of the project--substance and qualitative objectives-
-were again accorded priority during the execution period, as has been emphasized in all of the
evaluation reports. The fourth project has been a true education project: it made the existing
system more coherent and further clarified the new education policy (approach to publishing,
community and NGO participation in classroom construction, the increase in enrollment owing
to introduction of the double-shift system, diagnostic study of the university, strengthening of
the inspectorates and teacher training, experiments in educational reform, and the like). But it
is difficult to quantify and put a price tag on these major qualitative results.
(ii) Intrinsically--in other words, from the standpoint of its inherent objectives--Education
Project Four had a number of flaws, due mainly to the way it was managed, although the overall
results are clearly positive. Management suffered from two major problems:
a.  The first consisted of the excessively protracted delays in execution, most of which
resulted from compulsory adherence to local procedures (DDI, CNCA, etc.). The
school construction component--and to a lesser degree that of the textbook publishing-
were particularly affected by this cumbersome approach. On the other hand, however,
the accomplishments in areas not subject to the customary procedures (the staff training,



30
preventive maintenance, the inspectorates, the INEADE, planning, higher education and
the like) were especially tangble, and even exceeded the initial programming.
b.  The second problem was the weakness of BPE intemal management. From the start, the
BPE had inherited two counterproductive elements: an overabundance of staff who were
frequently underqua]ified at the base; and a management system that was hobbled by the
strictures of public administration. The combination of these two factors weighed more
or less heavily on the managerial dynamics of that Office and its top-heavy organizational
chart hampered internal operations (see the attached appendix). [end of sentence missing
at bottom of page 201
The situation was further aggravated by the fact that the BPE had four new directors in
succession during the execution period.
2. IMPACT ON THE INMAL COSTS AND OBJECTIVES
Financing of the project was ensured by three different sources:
e     International Development Association (IDA)
e     The African Development Bank (AfDB)
*     National counterpart funding.
On the whole, the costs and objectives were well handled despite their diversity, except
for the transferral of one hundred classrooms from the initial project areas to Dakar. That
move-which also had very little justification--proved to be very costly to the project since it
entailed construction work in an urban environment. (See the comparative table of construction
costs attached as an appendix.)
3. NATIONAL COUNTERPART FUNDING
In retrospect, it would seem that the breakdown of project costs into two parts (80%
IDA, 20% Government) for the same payment of operating expenses may well have been an
error in the original concept of the project, based on an overly optimistic estimate of the
Treasury's true financial situation.
Consequently, provision of the counterpart funds posed great problems throughout the
project execution period, given the refusal of supply and service purveyors to accept the
arrangement requiring 20% of the amount payable to be covered by the public authorities.
4.    PROCEDURAL CONSTRAINTS
Restrictions imposed by the procedures were and continue to be extremely burdensome.
The commitment and disbursement of credits entail excessively long administrative prerequisites
that do not appreciably smoothe the conduct of operations. The same applies not only to local
regulations but also to donor procedures requiring all too many statements of non-objection.



31
The impact of these enforced waits dampened both the amount of the grants and the
credibility of the executing agencies (the BPE and the MEN).
5. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT
The evaluation of results achieved by Education Project Four made it possible to redefine
the education sector's position in the general context of development and structural adjustment
in Senegal.
Thus fortified by the experience acquired and the success achieved, the Government is
now starting, with support from AID, to prepare a very sizeable program entitled PDRH2.
The BPE was the technical, methodological and institutional kingpin in the preparations
that led to Education Project Five, which once again addresses all of the concerns evoked by the
preceding project, but on a larger scale.






33
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1735-SE)
PART m: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                     Year of  Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Cr.530-SE (Second Education    Science, vocational, and     1975    Completed 1984
Project)                          rural youth training
2. Cr. 908-SE (hird Education     Improve primary education    1979    Completed 1987
Project)                          and training
3. Cr. 1638-SE (Management School)  Establish a regional       1985    Completed 1993
management training center
Following operations
1. Cr. 2255-SE (First Human       Integrated Health Services   1991    Under
Resources Development Project)                                         implementation
2. Cr. 2473 (Second Human         Expansions and Quality       1993    Under
Resources Development P&ect)      improvements in Education            implementation
Table 2: Project Timetable
Steps in proJect cycle          Date planned               Date actual
Identification (Initial Project Brief)                          September 22, 1983
Preparation                             March 1983         October 1983-September 1985
Appraisal                               March 1985                October 1985
Negotiations                           October 1985                 July 1986
Letter of development policy               N/A                        N/A
Board presentation                     January 1986             October 14, 1986
Signing                                  July 1986                July 1, 1987
Effectiveness                         November 1986             September 9, 1987
First tranche release                 At effectiveness          September 9, 1987
Second tranche release                   June 1988              December 2, 1998
Third tranche release                    June 1990              January 25, 1991
Project completion                   December 31, 1994          December 31, 1993
Loan closing                           June 30, 1995             March 23, 1994



34
Table 3A: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year,          1987   1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994   1995
Appraisal estimate         0.5    0.9   1.7   2.7   4.0   5.6   9.2   11.5   12.0
Actual                     0.0    1.2   3.4  6.71  8.17  9.47  12.67  13.35
Actual as % of estimate      0    133   200   248   204   169   138    116
Date of final disbursement                                  _
Table 3B: Country Exchange Rates
Year                          Exchange Rate (CFAF per US$1)
Annual Average
1986                                     346.30
1987                                     300.54
1988                                     297.85
1989                                     319.01
1990                                     272.26
1991                                     282.11
1992                                     245.69
1993                                     290.85
Appraisal year average (1985)                               360.00
Intervening years' average (1986-1993)                      294.33



35
Table 4: Key Indicators for Project Inplementation
PoL;cy Measure                             Target                         Actual
1. Recruit trainee teachers at an wfituenr   Increase current ratio of 47:53 to  Policy impleented as agrmed.
adjoinruzstiteu ration of 80:20 for 1986/87  80:20 by 1994.                   Recruitment taling place at
onward.                                                                       80:20 ratio. Actual ratio
reached 58:42 in SY 1992/93
2. Redeploy 400 primary teachers from        Redeploy 200 teachers by SY       1262 primary teachers have
administrative to classroom teaching positions.  1987/88 and 200 by SY 1989/90.  been redeployed, three time.
appraisal target
3. Introduce double-shift system in urban and  Experiment in first year. Evaluate    Experimental phase with 500
multi-grade system in rural schools.         and extend in following years.   classrooms completed in first
year. Program extended to
1412 DS and 270 MG
classrooms by 1992/93.
4. Increase student:teacher ratios in teacher  Increase ratio from current 7:1 to  Ratio reached 13:1 in 1992193
training colleges.                           15:1 by SY 1988/89.
S. Reduce operating costs of specialized civil  Complete feasibility study by  Study completed October
service training schools.                    February 1988. Implement plan by    1989. Not implemented
1988/89.
6. Reduce subsidies to higher education by:                                   Subsidies increased from
39.6% to 44.8% of higher
education budget.
(a) reducing the fellowship budget           Reduce from 1985/86 level by 89% in  Fellowship budget increased
SY 1987/88 and by 3 % per annum  by about 6% per annum
from SY 1988/89 through 1994/95.   between 1997/1998 and
1992/93.
(b) establish cost recovery systems          Complete study on student loans by   Study completed December
June 1988. Conduct experiment in   1989. Experiment not
SY 1988/89 to SY 1990/91         conducted
(c) reduce indirect subsidies                Reduce budget of campus services    Expenditures increased by a
by 8% between SY 1985/86 and SY   factor of 2.5 over project
1994/95. Implement plan to       period. Plan to privatizc
privatize student services       student services being
considered in proposed Higher
Education Project.
7. Establish ceilings on growth rates for recurrent  Limit growth of administrative and    Administrative budget decline
expenditures of central administration,  ondary   higher education budget to 1 % per    from 3.5 % to 3 % of total
and higher education.                        annum and secondary education to    education budget. Secondary
1.5 % per annum. Implement cost    education budget decreaed
savings plan.                    from 25.8% to 24% and
higher education budget
increased from 23.19% to
26.2%



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project
Study                              Purpose                             Status                      Impact of Study
1. Determinants of Demand for      Define strategy and cost of expanding    Completed June 1989.          Used for planning purposes
Education in Rural Areas           rural primary education.                                               (school map).
2. Financing of Primary Education   Identify measures to improve efficiency   Completed June 1989.        Results used in developing
of resource allocation and use                                        recurrent budget estimates.
3. Preparation of School Location   Integrate school mapping into the    Completed May 1989.              Preparation of school maps has
Plan                               planning process                                                       become regular feature of planning
process.
4. Efficiency of Secondary general    Identify areas for cost savings    Completed March 1989.            Recommendations not
and Technical Education                                                                                   implemented.
5. Student loan scheme in higher   Assess feasibility of introducing a   Study completed June 1989,       Recommendations not
education                          student loan scheme in place of student  including pilot scheme to test  implemented                    W
subsidies                           feasibility
6. Efficiency of higher education  Analyze internal efficiency of the    Study completed May 1989         Results being used in preparation
University of Dakar                                                   of higher education restructuring
project.
7. Regrouping of higher education   Prepare a plan to restructure and    Plan prepared in 1989.           Some restructuring measures to be
establishments                     consolidate tertiary level institutions                                implemented under proposed
Higher Education Project
8. Social Costs in higher education  Analyze costs of student support   Study completed June 1989.        Results used in policy discussions
(COUD)                             services at the University of Dakar and                                on higher education.
prepare plan to privatize certain services
9. Restructuring plan for vocational   Inventorize existing training    Plan prepared November 1989 but    No tangible results so far. Plan
training.                          establishments and propose measures to  not implemented.               may need updating to account for
restructure the system.                                               changes in system since 1989.



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project (Continued)
Study                              Purpose                              Status                      Impact of Study
10. Training needs in the modem     Assess training needs.               Study completed 1989.             Results used in policy discussions
sector                                                                                                     on VET sector development but no
decisions taken so far.
11. Training needs in the informal  Assess training needs.               Study completed 1989.             Results used in policy discussions
sector                                                                                                     on VET sector development but no
decisions taken so far.
12. Tracer study of vocational      Asses internal efficiency of vocational    Study completed 1989.       Results used in policy discussions
graduates                           training systems                                                       on VET sector development but no
decisions taken so far.
13. Evaluation of contents and methods  Analyze relevance of vocational training  Study completed 1989.    Results used in policy discussions
of vocational training              programs                                                               on VET sector development but no
decisions taken so far.         L
14. Functional literacy training in  Prepare to increase literacy levels of  Study completed 1990.         Results used in policy discussions
industry                            employed workers                                                       on VET sector development but no
decisions taken so far.



38
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actualllatest disbursement esima
Local   Foreign    Total   SDR      UA        CFAF
costs    Costs             IDA    AFDB       Gov-t.
Category
1. Civil Works                   2.65      1.38     4.03    4.16    0.80        147
2. Furniture                     0.62      0.61      1.23    0.36    0.12         -
3. Equipment and Vehicles        0.05      1.02      1.07    0.59    0.25        25
4. Textbooks                     0.21      1.05      1.25      -     1.45         -
5. Specialist Services           0.70      2.95      3.65    3.78    0.78
6. Training                      0.63      0.70      1.33    0.07    0.67         -
7. Incremental Operating Costs   0.49      1.86      2.35    0.75    0.40        164
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 5.35      9.57     14.91    9.71    4.47       336
Total Contingencies              2.08      2.61      4.69    0.41    0.05         -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              7.43      12.18    19.61    10.1    4.52       336
Table 6B: Project Fmancing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Equivalent to:  Actua/Latest
expenditure estimates:
Local   Foreign    Total
costs    Costs
Source
MBRDJIDA                          3.80      8.20     12.00   10.2M SDR      10.1M SDR
AfDB                              1.35      3.98     5.33   5.OM UA         4.5M UA
Domestic Contribution             2.28       -       2.28    820M CFAF    336M CFAF
TOTAL                             7.43     12.18    19.61                _



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Senegal
Primary Education Development Project
M - MET
N - NOT MET
P = PENDING
SECTON No of                          COVENANT                               STATUS                    COMMENTS                          ACTION TAKEN OR
Credit Ag_           __   _  __   _  __   _  __   _  __   _  __   _  _                                                                       REQUIRED
3.01 (b) (i)    Make available annually to project counterpart fund for school  M                                               No action required.
oonstruction equal to 15% of value of construction contracts.
3.01 (b) (ii)    Appoint and maintain sufficiently qualified project staff in  M                                                 No action required.
adequate numbers.
3.03       Maintain project unit (BPE) with function and staffing specified  M                                                No action required.
in credit agreement.
3.04       Borrower and IDA shall, in June 1998 and June 1990, or such    M          Second review, linked to release of third  Application of certain policy and
later dates as shall be agreed upon, review progress in carrying         tranche of school construction, conducted in   efficiency measures have resulted
out sectoral adjustment program.                                         November 1990. All measures linked to    in achievement of objective, i.e.
educational objectives are being implemented  improve access to and qualiy of    xn
and targets are being met. Budgetary     primary education. Higher
measures are not being respected; agreed  education restructuring is being
ceilings on higher education expenditures are  treatod in a separate oporation.
being exceeded and reallocations in favor of
primary education are not being done.
3.05       The Borrower shall:                                            M          Preventive maintenance program           No action required.
(a) no later than June 30, 1988, develop and discuss with IDA a          successfully completed. MEN should be
preventive maitnnce program;                                             able to extend to other areas.
(b) thereafer, assign responsibility for said program to
headmasters and teachers of primary schools as part of their
regular responsibilities.



SECTION No of                          COVENANT                                STATUS                     COMMENTS                          ACTION TAKEN OR
Croft Apganmt     ___________________________________                                                                                            REQUIRED
3.06       The Borrower shall:                                                         Al fellowship programs have been          No action required.
(a) prepar and implament annual local and foreign training       M          completed and staff have resumed their
programs, agreed upon with IDA, for mcn staff responsiblc for               positions.
the execution of the project;
(b) award fellowships on the basis of selection criteria and
procedures agreed upon with IDA;
(c) appoint fellowship recipients to posts commcnsurate with
their trining.
3.07       The Borrower shall:
(a) furnish to IDA for its comments, sudics included in the      M          All studies were completed in 1990.       Specific actions to be included in
sectoral adjustment program;                                                                                          folow-up projects.
(b) implement recommendations and conclusions of said studies    N          Recommendations resulting from studies
as agreed with IDA.                                                         being discussed in context of prepartion of
follow-up projects in vocational training and
higher education.
3.08       In carrying out school construction program, the Borrower         M         Self-help construction has worked         School construction has boen
shall, to the extent prmctical, favor the use of local materials and        satisfactorily but slowly,                completed. No specific action
maintenance methods suitable for the community in which                                                               required.
schools will be built.
4.01       The borrower shall:                                               P         Project accounts have not been kept in    Final audit to closing to be
accordanoc with sound practices. In the   submitted by June 30, 1994.
(a) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in                   past, audit reports have been seriously
accordanc with sound accounting practices, the operations,                  overdue but the situation has improved
resources and expenditures of the project and submit annual                 recently.
audits;
(b) for expenditures made on the basis of statetnent of
expenditures (SOES), maintain special accounts and provide
scmi-annual audits of such accounts and SOES.



41
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
Total
Through Appraisal   57.5  22.3
79.8
Appraisal-Board                 46.6
46.6
Board-Effectiveness      0.2   5.0
5.2
Supervision                     7.8   13.9  6.3   11.4  6.1   15.7  10.0  4.2
75.4
Completion                                                                   4.0
4.0
TOTAL                    57.5  69.1  12.8  13.9  6.3   11.4  6.1   15.7  10.0
8.2   211.0



42
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Projeat Cycle   Month/  Number of  Days in   Spec iaition       Performance Rating            Type of Problem
Year    Persons      Fildd    RVpresented1 
Implementation  Development
Status      Obiectives
Through Appraisal    10/85        5         25        E, A, EC
Appraisal through Board   -         -          -
Approval
Board Approval through    -         -          -
Effectivenes
Supervision
Supervision 1      11/87       2           9         EP, A             2             1        Budgetarv re-allocation of
savings between budget
categories not carried out
Supervision 2      06/88       2          11         EP, A            2              2        Contracts: delays in
launching studies and
implementing cost recovery
measures
Supervision 3      02/89       2          17         EP, A            3              2        Policy: delays in launching
sector adjustment program
(SAP)
Supervision 4      12/89       2           5         EP, A            2              2        Policy: Government not
living up to its obligations for
policy and budget measures
as agreed under SAP
Supervision 5      03/90       2           6          E.O             2              2        As above
Supervision 6      11/90       2                      E, 0            2              2        Pedaeoeical: untrained
primary teachers placed in
classrooms
Supervision 7      12191       4          16       E, EP, T, 0        2              2        Management: excessive
delays in school construction,
late submission of audit
reports, delays in provision
of counterpart funds
Supervision 8      03/92       5           5      E, EP, T, 0,        2              2        Poin : adjustment measures
A                                      in higher education not
implemented
Management: delays in
school construction
Supervision 9      10/92       2           4         EP, A            2              2        Management: Abrupt firing
of project director and delays
in recruiting a replacement.
Supervision 10      07/93       3          11       EP, e, A           2              2       Financial: Qualified audits
Key:
E =Educator                                                                      A= Architect/Implementation Specialist
EC=Economist                                                                     T=Textbook Specialist
EP=Education Planner                                                             O=Operations Officer



IBRD 20043
' ALGERIA                           16                                  15                                  14                                  3                                   12
MAURITANIA
SENEGAL                 fALI       R                                                          _   * Podor
GA'A                           -                                                                                                                                                                 S E N E G A L
T~~~E        rU, "-  '- J                                              0aganaSE                                                                                                                     GA
BISSAU I GUINEA  ZA r'                                                                                                                                                                 PRIMARY EDUCATION
SIERRA LEONE *;<pCOEI j                                                                                                                            -1                               DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ClAPRIA' d      U  I                  ,
Lv  ~~~~~~~~~~~~* Departmentalinpcoae
for Primary Education
INT-LOUIS                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regional O,spectorates
r,af _ -le  43  |                                            ~_                                    /                                                             for Primary Education                       16P
Project Areas
A    Department Capitals
I      Region Capitals
N Natiaona Capitals
.2                                                          Matam'                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Department BoundariRs
Region Boundaries
Kiemer                                          XL,nguere                                                                                               Interna tonal Boundaniea
RILOMETERS
15
,TIAaouane
9:                 DIOL                                                                                                                                           BakEe
a3  33HE S               Baambey             MbrceB
DAKAR                                                       B L
ATICK    oss
K A 0 L AC: 
MALI
t    s E --~~~~~ -- sa~~ffr,ne                                                                        /\ML
ndioug   KAOLACK   1              t-Ine
\  |   NIori   \~'~,/                 \                        TAMBACOUNDj
V 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,,  -J                                                           C i 1J _.,i   ' 
------    -.---,-.-,_,-_---
BANJUL   THE                    -                                      __'
GAMBIA i                       X                    '                               / _'       -
'VelIngara           -
13  . .   - ,                                          KOLDA
B,gnon(
_-  - - -  -  - '-'--'-'-'- --- -  --- - - - - -  -                                                                                       S
_.___                '-3 ~ /.  |              Kedougous
ZIGUINCHOR                     .- ----' 
"---~~~Oussouye          r                     ~   ~ _ _._ GUINEA-BISSAU                                       L)                      -                             J        --  !
IT'                                                                     15'                                 I3    GUINEA                                                             12j
SEPTEMBER 1986









IMAGING
Report No;       14443
Type: PCR



