Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6. /Yk'  -
Report No. 6179-SE
S.TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 9, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This document lmas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRFNCY EQUIVALFNTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0   CFAF 360
CFAF 1 million   US$2,778
IIFA SURES
1 m     =  1.09 yd.
1 m      =  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2     =  0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank (Banque Africa4ne de Développement)
COUD      -    Campus Services of the University of Dakar (Centre des
Oeuvres Universitaires de l'Université de Dakar)
CNREF     -    National Education Reform Commission (Commission
Nationale de Réforme de l'Education et de la Formation)
DCES      -    Directorate of School Construction and Equipment (Direction
des Constructions et de l'Equipement Scolaires)
DERP      -    Directorate of Studies, Puman Resources and Planning
(Direction des Etudes, Ressources Humaines et de la
Planification)
INEADE    -    National Pedagogical Institute (Institut National d'Etude et
d'Action pour le Développement de l'Educatlon)
MEN       -    liinistry of National Education (Ministère de l'Education
Nationale)
FISCAL YEAR                           SCHOOL YEAP
July 1  -  June 30                    September  -  June



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCVMENS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ......   .......................    iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................   ..*.* *.......  .*  vii
I. INTRODUCTION ....... ... ..........******    1
Il. TUE EDUCATION SECTOR ............    ....... .... ........       1
A . Overview  .    ..      ...... ..**. .. .  .. .*. . . . . ... . . . .*. . .. ... .  1
B. Main Issues in Primary Education ... **....................   1
1. Accees and Equity .......*..............  **......*        1
2. Financial Constraints and Budgetary Realignment ......     2
3. Quality or Primary Education ...  .......... ............  3
4. Educational Planning and Management .*   ................  4
C. Experier.ce vith Past Lending ... .....................**     4
D. The Government's Sectoral Adjustment Strategy and
Policy Dialogue vith the Bank Group    ....................  5
III. THE PROJECT .............*................................. .    6
A. Project Objectives and Description ......................     6
i. Sectoral Adjustment Program .... .......................   6
2. Development of Planning, Budgeting and Cost-Control
Capacity of the Ministry of National Education  ......    8
3. Improvement of Teacher Effectiveness, Efficiency
of School Inspectors and Relevance and
Availability of Textbooks ......   .  .....................  il
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan ....................         13
C. Project Implementation  ..................................   14
1. Preparation, Management and Institution Building          14
2. Procurement ........................ . .. .............   15
3. Disbursements .......................... ................  17
4. Auditing and Reporting .............................      18
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................    18
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMYBNDATIONS .......   ..............  19
This report ls based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Senegal in October-November 1985. The mission members vere Ms. Kolan
(mission leader, economist); Messrs. Rouag (general educator); Abéille
(architect); Jarousse (economist, consultant); and Betancur (student loan
specialist, consultant).  Mr. Zymelman (economist) developed the simulation
model. The report vas prepared by Ms. Kolan and Mr. Abeille, and edited by
Ms. Roos. Mmes. Joseph and Angers assisted vith the preparation of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1    Basic Data Sheet
2-1 Flow Chart of the Formal Education System
2-2 Organigram of Ministry of National Education
2-3 Cost, Financing and Efficiency of the Senegalese Education System
2-4 Comparative Education Indicators
2-5 Financial Implications of Proposed Sectoral Adjustment Policies on
Primary School Enrollment Rates
2-6 Primary School Teacher Salaries and Assignments
2-7 Comçarison of Estimated Investment and Lifetime (25 years) Cost of
Project Claserooms with Those Constructed by Parents and the Central
Government
2-8 The Government's Education Strategy
3-1 Proposed Sectoral Adjustment Policies and Criteria for Policy Progress
Reviews
3-2 Proposed Studies for the Sectoral Adjustment Program
3-3 Strengthening the Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and Planning
3-4 Organizational Structure and Project-Related Functions of DCES
3-5 Implementation of the Rehabilitation and Preventive Maintenance
Programs
3-6 Unit (M2) Capital Costs of Project Classrooms Compared with Those in
Other Projects Financed with Bank Group Support
3-7 Site Selection Criteria and Description of Construction Technology and
Activities for Primary School Building
3-8 Responsibilities for Project Coordination
3-9 Experimentation with Double-Shift and Multigrade Systems
3-10 Strengthening the Role of Inspectorates in Education Administration
and Pedagogical Support
3-11 Development of Textbook Publishing Capacity
3-12 Basis of Cost Estimates
3-13 Project Costs
3-14 Financing Plan
3-15 Implementation Schedule
3-16 Schedule and Duration of New Staff Appointments
3-17 Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Services
3-18 Summary of Overseas and Local Training, and Criteria and Procedure for
Fellowship Awards
3-19 Procurement Procedures
3-20 Diabursement Profile
MAP: IBRD 20043
WAPED
September 1986



- iii -
REPUBLIC 0F SENECAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                      Documents                         Document Code
1.       "Etude Sous-sectorielle sur l'Enseignement           128.280 (B)
Elémentaire. tn Objectif: l'Ecole pour
Tous en 1995", Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; juin 1982.
2.       "Les Finances Publiques des Communes et des          229.398
Communautés Rurales au Sénégal",
Marie-Claire Bouat and Marie-Claire
Fouilland, Dakar: Editions Clairafrlque;
mars 1983.
3.       "Mise en Place d'une Politique de Classes à          229.399
Double Flux et de Classe à Cours Multiples:
Analyse des Possibilités et Modalités d'une
Utilisation Intensive des Ressources
Existantes", Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; janvier 1985.
4.       "Etude sur le Renforcement de l'Inspectorat          229.400
Départemental" (Préparation IV  Projet
Education), Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; février 1985.
5.       "Etude Carte Scolaire: Détermination d'un            229.401
Programme d'Interventions Prioritaires de
Salles de Classe d'Enseignement Elémentaire
en Milieu Rural", Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; mars 1985.
6.       "Etude sur le Financement deel'Enseignement          229.402
Elémentaire" (Préparation IV  Projet
Education), Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; mars 1985.
7.       "Etude sur la Mise en Place d'un Fonds               229.403
Communautaire de Développement de
l'Education" (Préparation IVe Projet
Education), Ministère de l'Education
Nationale; mai 1985.



- 92 -                       ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING CAPACITY
1-okground
1.        The objective of this component is to increase the quantity of
textbooks in primary schools, improve their relevance and quality, and
reduce their cost. Each text would follow the following sequence of
development: in year one, editing/origination; prlnting and distribution
in year two; use in schools as of year three; and evaluation as of year
four.
2.        In 1983 the Government instituted a free textbook loan system
whereby each year, on a progressive basis, two or three regions are
provided with textbooks. The first cycle of the system is expected to be
completed in 1988 when the Cap Vert Region receives its allotment. The
policy also provides for "topping up" of textbook stocks in each region
during the years following the initial supply. Students use the textbooks
on a loan basis during the year and return them to school at year's end.
Those who fail to do so reimburse the cost of the textbooks.
3.        Currently, MEN's Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning is responsible for textbook procurement and distribution. It uses
the services of "Nouvelles Editions Africaines" to order the textbooks and
transport them to departmental inspectorates. The procurement and distri-
bution functions are operating adequately; what is lacking ls the capacity
to produce original material or adapt textbooks that are both relevant to
teaching/learning needs and inexpensîve. To this end, the project would
assist the Goverument to establish a Textbook Publishing Unit at INEADE
whose responsibilities would be to manage the development of appropriate
textbooks through directing the publishing process, guiding authors,
editing their manuscripte, and making arrangements for printing the text-
books. In addition, the Government plans to develop a cost-recovery system
by charging an average fee of CFAF 1,000 (about US$2.80) per student per
year, per set of books. The project would assist the Goverument to analyze
the equity implications and the potential enrollment effects in the low-
income areas of the proposed fee system.
Strategy
4.        Original wrlting or adaptation of existing textbooks.  The Text-
book Unit would assess the adaption possibilities of books that are
"largely international" in content (e.g. math and science) and negotiate
with the copyright holders. For French textbooks, although adaptation la a
posslbillity, because of cultural demanda in language and content, writing
nev textbooks is likely to be a better approach. For the national language
textbooks as vell as all of the teacher guides, the writing of new
materials ls recommended. Local authors, following their trainlng, would
do the original vriting or adaptation and would be paid a flat fee for



- v 
Ref. No.                      Documents                          Document Code
Project Working Papers
21.       "Renforcement des Capacités Techniques               229.405(1)
d' Elaboration Expérimentation, Evaluation
et Diffusion des Innovations Pédagogiques";
décembre 1985.
22.       "Construction et Equipement d'Etablissement          229.405(2)
d'Enseignement Elementaire: Description de
la Composante (400 Salles de Classe)";
janvier 1986.
23.       "Création de la Division du Patrimoine et            229.405(3)
de l'Information"; janvier 1986.
24.       "Entretien Préventif d'Etablissements                229.405(4)
d'Enseignement Elémentaire"; janvier 1986.
25.       "Réhabilitation d'Etablissements                     229.405(5)
d'Enseignement Elémentaire (100 Salles de
Classe)"; janvier 1986.
26.       "Renforcement du Bureau du Projet";                  229.405(6)
février 1986.
27.       "Modèle de Lettre d'Invitation pour la               229.405(7)
Préselection des Services de Spécialistes,
de Consultants de Cabinets d'Architectes et
de Sociétés d'Engineering"; no date.
Other References
28.       "Budgets du Ministère de l'Education                 229.416
Nationale, du Ministère de l'Enseignement
Supérieur, et du Secrétariat d'Etat
d'Enseignement Technique et Formation
Professionnelle", Ministère de Finances;
1981-86.
29.       "Plan d'Action de Monsieur le Ministre de            229.406
l'Education Nationale", Ministère de
l'Education Nationale; avril 1983.
30.       "La Participation des Collectivités et des           229.407
Communautés Rurales au Financement de
l'Education" (Etude Réalisée par l'Ecole
Nationale d'Economie Appliquée -
Financement USAID), Ministère de
l'Education Nationale, Dakar; juillet 1984.



- vi -
Ref. No.                      Documents                         Document Code
31.       "Projet de VII Plan de Développement                 SP-130
Economique et Social: 1985-89: Situation de
l'Economie Sénégalaise, Stratégie de
Développement", Ministère du Plan et de la
Coopération, Tome I et Tome II; mars 1984.
32.       "Rapport de Synthèse des Travaux de la               SE-500
Zoumission Nationale du Plan Chargée du
Sous-secteur de l'Education et de la
Formation: Bilan d'Ex&cution du VI e Plan au
30/6/84, Perspectives du VIIe Plan",
Ministère de l'Education Nationale;
février/mars 1985.
33.       "Republic of Sénégal, Education Sector               SE-Ed Sector
Memorandum: Cost and Financing of                    B/R
Education" (Report No. 6081-SE), IBRD;
February 1986.



- vii -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Senegal
Beneficl,ary:   Ministry of Natiotial Education
Credit Amount: SDR 10.2 million (US$12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The Government of Senegal aime to achieve universal primary
education by the year 2000. Given, however, the primary
school-age population's annual growth rate of 3% and the
current low grose enrollment rate of 52%, if the present
expenditure pattern in the education sector and its share of
the total recurrent budget remain substantially unchanged,
by the year 2000 the 52% gross enrollment rate would decline
to 38%. Therefore, the overall objective of the project is
to assist the Government in accelerating the qualitative and
quantitative development of primary education, vithin the
framework of its structural and sectoral adjustment
programs, through more effective use of education resources
and the strengthening of sector institutions.
Specifically, the project aims to:
1. Implement a phased sectoral adjustment program te lover
unit costs by improving the efficiency of resource use
through:
(a)  reducing teaeher and administrative staff costs
per student et the primary level; and
(b)  containing expenditures at the post-primary level
(reducing higher education subsidies and unit
costs, developing cost-recovery systeme) and real-
locating funds thus made available to primary
education.



- viii -
2.   Develop the planning, budgeting, cost-control and
coordination capacity of the Ministry of National
Education by:
(a) strengthening the capacity of the Directorate of
Studies, Human Resources and Planning to develop
and implement sectoral adjustment and growth plans
and cost-effectiveness measures;
(b) minimizing primary school replacement needs and
reducing new construction costs through:
(i) developing facility planning and budgeting
capacity of the new Physical Facility Management
Division; (ii) rehabili.tating 100 classrooms;
(iii) establishing a preventive mairsenance systei
and training the staff of 2,500 primary schools to
ensure regular upkeep of facilities; and
(iv) constructing 400 low-cost/low-maintenance
classrooms under cost-sharing arrangements with
communities; and
(c) developing the project coordination capacity of
the Ministry of National Education by establishing
a Project Unit.
3.   Improve teacher effectiveness, efficiency of primary
school inspectors, and relevance and availability of
textbooks by:
(a)  strengthening the National Pedagogical Institute's
ability to develop materials relevant to country
conditions, conduct teacher upgrading programs,
and prepare for the introduction of double-shift
and multigrade systens;
(b)  reinforcing the school inspE,torates to provide
teacher support and supervision and to manage
education budgets and personnel on a decentralized
basis; and
(c) creating a national capacity to prepare, adapt and
distribute textbooks and teacher guides.



- ix -
Estimated Costs*
Projec_ Component                                    Local    Foreigun  Total
...UST million…---
1. Development of MEN's planning, budgeting
and cost-control capacity
a. Strengthening the Directorate of
Studies, Human Resources and Planning          0.34      0.85     1.19
b. Minimizing school replacement needs/
construction costs by:
(i) developing facility planning and
budgeting capacity                       0.08      0.40     0.48
(ii)  rehabilitating 100 classrooms            0.22      0.30     0.52
(iii) establishing a preventive
maintenance system                       0.15      0.34     0.49
(iv)  constructing 400 classrooms              2.65      1.70     4.35
c. Developing project coordination capacity        0.60     1.37      1.97
Subtotal                                 4.04     4.96      9.00
2. Improving teacher effectiveness, efficiency
of school inspectors and relevance and
availability of textbooks by:
a. Strengthening the National Pedagogical
Institute                                      0.42      1.63     2.05
b. Strengthening the inspectorates                 0.43     1.45      1.88
c. Creating textbook preparation and
distribution capacity                          0.46      1.53      1.99
Subtotal                                 1.31     4.61      5.92
Total Base Costs                                      5.35     9.57    14.92
Physical Contingencies                                0.33     0.30      0.63
Price Contingencies                                   1.75     2.31      4.06
Tozal Project Cost                                    7.43    12.18    19.61
Financing Plan                                      Local    Foreign   Total
…- US$ million 
IDA                                                  3.80      8.20    12.00
AfDB                                                 1.35      3.98      5.33
Government                                           2.28      ...       2.28
Central                                            (1.16)     ...      (1.16)
Local                                              (1.12)     ...      (1.12)
Total                                                7.43     12.18    19.61
* The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



-x -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
…US$ million ------------------------
Annual        0.5      0.4    0.8    1.0    1.3    1.6    3.6    2.3    0.5
Cumulative    0.5      0.9    1.7    2.7    4.0    5.6    9.2   11.5   12.0
Economic Rate
of Return:    Not applicable
Benefits
and Risks:     Through the application of sectoral adjustment policies,
primary enrollments are expected to increase by about 32%
(180,000 additional students) by the 1994/95 school year or,
in cumulative terms, by ar additional 450,000 student years
over tht' period 1987 to 1994, without increasing the share
of education in the Government budget from its 1985/86
level. The classroom construction program would help expand
primary enrollments by about 7% in the three project
regions; provide replicable classroom designs at a cost
about 35% lower per m2 than that currently incurred in
Government-constructed classrooms, and would set the pattern
for cost sharing by communities. The project would also
improve the quality of primary education through the pro-
vision of more relevant textbooks and teacher guides,
development of revised curricula, and teacher upgrading
programs. Project support to institution building at the
central and regional levels would yield the long-term
benefit of improved educational planning, budgeting and
resource management capacities. The project has two
potential risks. First, sectoral adjustment measures such
as reducing higher education subsidies or introducing
double-shift system may not be fully endorsed by teachers,
students or parents. Aware of this risk, the Government has
been pursuing a public acceptance campaign. In addition,
the project includes two joint Government/IDA reviews to
assess progress of the policy measures and make any neces-
sary adjustments. The second risk concerns possible delays
in implementing the construction program, owing to the
limited technical capacity of the Ministry of National
Education and the experimental nature of the cost-sharing
arrangements with communities. To reduce this risk, an
important criterion for selecting the target communities is
their commitment to contribute about 25% of the classroom
construction costs in cash or in kind.
WAPED
SepterAber 1986



- 1 -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATIOII DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Senegal has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project to increase access to primary education and improve its
quality.  Within the framework of the Government's structural adjustment
program, the project aims to develop the basis for a sectoral adjustment
program that would improve the allocative efficiency and cost-effective use
of education resources and strengthen the institutions that are responsible
for education quality and resource management. The estimated project cost is
US$19.6 million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component is 62%.
The Government wou'Ld contribute about US$2.3 million. The remaining US$17.3
million would be financed by IDA (US$12.0 million) and the African Develop-
ment Bank (EJS$5.3 million). This project would be exempt from taxes and
duties. The Basic Data Sheet is at Annex 1.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Overview
2.1       The education system consists of (a) a six-year cycle of primary
education (along with parochial and Koranic schools); (b) a four-year lower
secondary cycle followed by a three-year upper cycle in general and technical
education; and (c) higher education through two- or four-year programs at the
University of Dakar or at specialized training schools. The Ministry of
National Education (MEN) is responsible for all formal education and training
activities (para 2.8). Professional and nonformal education/training is pro-
vided directly by about 11 ministria.  Annex 2-1 provides a flow chart of
the formal education system and Annex 2-2 an organigram of MEN. Annex 2-3
provides statistical data on the cost, financing and efficiency of the
Senegalese education system. The table of Comparative Education Indicators
is at Annex 2-4.
B.   Main Issues in Primary Education
1.   Access and Equity
2.2       Senegal ranks below the West African average in terms of adult
literacy and primary enrollments (28% and 52% respectively, according to
1984/85 school year statistics). Distribution of educational opportunity ls
unequal. While over 60% of primary school-age children live in rural areas,
they constitute only 37% of enrollments. The female participation rate is
40% nationally and about 32% in rural areas, falling to as low as 19% in the
Louga Region. Due to a lack of adequate facilities (87% of rural schools
have lesa than six classrooms), in some rural areas enrollment into Grade 1
occurs once every two or three years.



2.  Financial Constraints and Budgetary Realignment
2.3       Despite the fact that only one child out of two has a place in pri-
mary school, education consumed about 23.2% of the Government's recurrent
budget and 5% of GDP in the 1985/86 school year. At the 3% per annum growth
rate of the primary school-age population and the GDP growth rate of 2.3% per
annum projected for the next decade, additional puolic funds are not likely
to be available to enable the Government to meet its ambitious enrollment
targets for primary schooling: 60% by 1989, and universal primary education
by the year 2000. The sectoral and functional budget allocations for educa-
tion are shown in Annex 2-3. Results of simulations on alternative policy
measures are at Annex 2-5.
2.4       Per student costs.  In terms of primary education unit costs (about
US$117/year), Senegal ranks as the fourth highest country in West Africa.
This is largely attributable to three factors: high teacher salaries, low
student/teacher ratios in rural areas, and excessive administrative staff/
teacher ratios.  First, in the 1984/85 school year, 96% of the recurrent pri-
mary education budget vas consumed by the teacher vage bill, owing to high
teacher salaries (seven to nine times the GDP per capita). Senegal has two
types of formally trained teachers: "instituteurs adjoints" (associate
teachers), comprising about 47% of the teaching force and trained for one
year after the 10th grade; and "instituteurs" (teachers), comprising about
53% of the teaching force and trained for either one year after baccalaureate
or four years after the 10th grade. On average, the annual base salaries of
"instituteurs adjoints" are about 30% lower than those of "instituteurs."
One way to reduce teacher cost per student would be to shift the balance of
recruitment toward hiring more "instituteurs adjoints."  The Government  in-
tends to increase the proportion of "instituteurs adjoints" vis-a-vis "insti-
tuteurs" from the current 47:53 ratio to a 80:20 ratio by starting to recruit
candidates inte teacher training programs as of the 1986/87 school year
(paras 2.12 and 3.2). This measure would reduce the total wage bill of new
teachers employed under the 80:20 ratio by 14%. To ensure that the increased
proportion of "instituteurs adjoints" does not impair the quality of primary
education, the Goverriment intends to revise the content and duration of the
"instituteur adjoint" pre-service training program and improving the quality
and frequency of teacher upgrading programs. A second reason for the high
unit costs is the significantly lower student/teacher ratios in rural areas
as compared to those in urban areas. Unit costs vary by 40% on average and
by as much as 110% in tbe extreme cases.  Implementation of a multigrade
system in rural areas would permit more efficient use of teachers and free
them for additional students. There is also scope for lowering unit costs,
increasing enrollments, and eliminating overcrowded classes by introducing a
double-shift system whereby one teacher would teach two shifts and receive
about 25% of his/her base salary as extra compensation. Weekly classroom
hours would be reduced and to compensate, the school year would be extended
and specialized curricula developed. By initiating such a system at Grade 1
in the first year and extending it to Grades 2-4 over the subsequent three
years in about 20% of the overcrowded classrooms, by the end of the project
period, 20,000 additional students would gain access to primary education. A
third reason for the high unit costs stems from the use of teachers in
administrative positions. Of the 11,800 school teachers covered under the
primary education budget, about 11% (as compared to an average of about 7%
for Africa) do not have regular classroom teaching duties in primary schools
(an estimated 7% serve in administrative positions at inspectorates; 4% are



- 3 -
employed as monitors in secondary schools. Meanwhile, at the beginning of
the 1985/86 school year, 550 primary classrooms could not be opened because
of teacher shortages. Annex 2-3 shows student/teacher ratios in urban and
rural areas and a comparison of unit costs with those in other countries.
Annex 2-6 provides data on teacher salaries and assignments in 1983/84.
2.5       Construction costs.  In 1985, the initial investment cost for
classrooms built by the Government was about US$180/m2, which translates to
an estimated lifetime cost of about US$280/m2, taking into account repairs,
reconstruction and maintenance (over 25 years).  The high costs stem from
reliance on imported materials, inappropriate designs and techniques,
inefficient procurement, and rapid deterioration owing to lack of mainte-
nance. Simple, cheaper and low-maintenance designs, using local materials
and labor, would enable communities to construct their own achools at lower
investment and lifetime costs (about US$118/m2 and US$160/m2, respectively,
in 1986 prices). Initial outlays and lifetime costs per classroom would thus
be reduced by about 35% and 43%, respectively. Annex 2-7 provides the
detailed figures.
2.6       High subsidies and unit costs at the post-secondary level.
Generous subsidies often encourage university students to continue their
studies beyond economically efficient levels, with the result that the
estimated return to the individual is much higher (21%) than the social
return (9%).  In 1985, university fellowships and indirect subsidies (meals,
lodging, transport and social services) to the Campus Services at the
University of Dakar constituted 34% (25% and 9%, respectively) of the higher
education budget.   Of the 11,800 students, about 7,000 received fellowships
or financial assistance. Over 50% of the fellowship budget was awarded to
about 2,000 students for study abroad, the per student cost of which is five
times that at the University. Internal efficiency of higher education is
also low: only one out of five students graduates and on average it takes
7-12 years to complete the four-year cycle. From an equity and efficiency
point of view, gradual reduction of direct and indirect subsidies and the
introduction of cost-recovery measures are justified. Another cost-
efficiency issue concerns institutions that train future public service
employees. As a result of the constrained civil service hiring, these
schools have high per student costs (on average about US$4,800/year), due
mainly to low student/teacher ratios. In teacher training colleges, for
example, the ratio is about seven students per teacher. It is estimated that
by increasing the student/teacher ratio to 15:1 and reducing redundant
personnel and operating costs, the savings realized would represent 15%
(about US$350,000 equivalent) of the 1985/86 recurrent budget for teacher
training schools. Annex 2-3 provides relevant statistics on the above
points.
3.   Quality of Primary Education
2.7         The internal efficiency of primary education Js low.  The
achievement rate for the primary-level completion examination is about 59%.
A number of factors adversely affect the quality of primary schooling:
(a) inadequate teaching skills; (b) unduly academic curricula and an
inadequate capacity for developing appropriate teaching methods and
materials; (c) an inspectorate staff without the physical means to conduct
school visits and lacking up-to-date knowledge of innovative classroom
techniques to assist teachers, as well as the authority to impose sanctions



-4-
for unsatisfactory teacher performance; (d) shortages of textbooks and
teacher guides, which also are not always relevant to children's environment
and learning requirements; and (e) inadequate physical facilities, with 50%
of the classrooms lacking a sufficient number of student benches and about
25% of the classrooms in a state of disrepair.
4.   Educational Planning and Management
2.8       Previously, responsibility for formal edu^ation and training vas
shared by the Ministry of National Ed -cation (for primary and secondary
levels), the Ministry of Righer Education, and the State Secretariat for
Technical Education and Vocational Training. In January 1986 these three
ministries were consolidated into MEN. In the present structure, four key
institutions vithin the MEN organization and budget are concerned with
primary education: the Directorates of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning; Elementary Education; and School Construction and Equipment, all of
which report to the Minister of National Education; and the National
Pedagogical Institute, which reports to the Cabinet of the Minister.
2.9       The Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and Planning (DERP) is
responsible for research, educational planning, school mapping, relations
vith external agencies, textbook procurement, and the preparation of edu-
cation projects. Staff shortages and the heavy burden of routine admini-
stration have prevented DERP from preparing long-range education strategy and
development plans and from adequately performing its other responsibilities,
resulting in the work being diffused and inadequately coordinated. The
National Pedagogical Institute (INEADE), created under the Tkird Education
Project (para 2.10), has the main responsibility for educational research and
experimentation in the development/adaptation of curricula, the preparation
and implementation of in-service training, and the development of teaching
materials, tests and student assessment measures. Experience has shown that
the Institute needs further support and revision of its organizational struc-
ture and staffing to enable it to serve as the key institution for improving
the quality and relevance of primary education. Under the Directorate of
Elementary Education are 10 regional and 41 departmental inspectorates, which
have the responsibility for dissemination of educational improvements and
implementation of policies at the regional and local levels. However,
administration remains highly centralized, with even routine decisions taken
in Dakar. To remedy the problem and in line with the Government's 1972
administrative decentralization policy, MEN intends to decentralize relevant
aspects of educational planning and resource management to provide inspectors
vith adequate budgetary authority, means for teacher support, and povers of
sanction for dealing with personnel problems (paras 2.7 and 3.17). On the
construction side, since 1978, MEN's Directorate of School Construction and
Equipment (DCES) has been assigned the responsibility for all administrative
tasks and techniques concerning school construction and equipment at educa-
tional establishments, includ4.ng design work, budget estimation, elaboration
and management of school building projects, procurement, control of civil
vorks, and planning. DCES needs strengthening, as it lacks the technical
expertise to carry out its assigned tasks.
C.   Experienco with Past Lending
2.10      The Bank Group has financed four education projects to date.  The
Firat Education Project (Cr. 253-SE for US$2.0 million, 1971-78) focused on



- 5 -
improving the quality of technical and agriculturLl education. The Second
Education Project (Cr. 530-SE for US$15.0 million, 1975-84) provided assis-
tance for improved planning, and financed science facilities, vocational
training centers and low-cost rural youth training centers. The Third Edu-
cation Project (Cr. 908-SE and SAC 11-SE for US$26.5 million, 1979-present),
is supporting educational research/planning, the development of technical/
vocational facilities and teaching methods, university-level training for
agronomists, and post-graduate management training.  The Regional Management
School Project (Cr. 1638-SE for US$5.5 million), which became effective in
April 1986, is designed to transform the management school financed under the
Third Education Project into a regional school for the West African Economic
Community to train/ upgrade middle- and high-level managers and provide
consulting services to private and parapublic enterprises. The first three
projects were implemented satisfactorily, although there were some problems,
mainly delays at the architectural design and contract award stages and
inadequate coordinacing and monitoring capacity.  In light of this experi-
ence, the project proposes to finalize all preparation, especially design
work, prior to credit effectiveness and to develop the capacity of the MEN to
coordinate and monitor projects.
D.   The Government's Sectoral Adjustment Strategy and Policy Dialogue with
the Bank Group
2.11      The Government's Structural Adjustment Program for 1985-92 aims at,
inter alia, improved management of public resources through sectoral adjust-
ments to ensure more efficient allocation and use of resources. Within this
framework, the education sector has launched a reform effort, the "Ecole
Nouvelle" (the new school), whose fundamental aim is the creation of an edu-
cation system that lis equitable, efficient and responsive to national
development needs.   The main objectives are to: (a) assign top priority to
expanding primary education with the eventual goal of universal primary edu-
cation by the year 2000 and an intermediate target of 60% by the end of the
Seventh Plan period in 1989; (b) utilize existing physical and human
resources more efficiently; and (c) develop the institutional structure to
improve the quality and relevance of education. Annex 2-8 provides details
on the Government's education strategy.
2.12      The Bank Group strategy supports the Government's structural and
sectoral adjustment program through an ongoing policy dialogue and a lending
portfolio that includes the second Structural Adjustment Credit as well as
sectoral rehabilitation projects.  In addition, the Bank Group convened the
first Consultative Group for Senegal in 1984 and will organize a follow-up in
early 1987. In the education sector, the Bank Group supports the Govern-
ment's priority of expanding primary schooling and improving its quality.
Over the past three years, through discussions and sector studies, the Bank
Group has assisted the Government in defining and preparing an implementation
plan to achieve these objectives.  Accordingly, the Government has initiated,
or under the project intends to initiate, measures to:  (a) reduce recurrent
unit costs at the primary level by recruiting a larger proportion of "insti-
tuteurs adjoints," reassigning teachers currently in administrative posts
into classrooms, and introducing double-shift and multigrade systems;
(b) reduce construction unit costs by developing maintenance programs and
low-cost classroom designs; (c) mobilize private resources through cost-
sharing arrangements with communities in school construction, cost-recovery



- 6 -
systems such as student loans in higher education, and assessment of fees for
primary school textbooks; and (d) strengthen institutions that plan education
strategy and spending. As part of the policy dialogue, the Bank Group has
tested the impact of some of the measures which are planned by the GovernmenF
and embodied in the proposed project. Simulated results indicate that to
counteract the negative effect of rapid population growth on primary enroll-
ment rates and to contain education expenditures, a sectoral adjustment
program that encompasses financial measures to permit reallocation of sector
resources in favor of primary education, as well as efficiency measures to
lower unit costs, is essential.
III.  THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government to
accelerate the qualitative and quantitative development of primary education,
vithin the framework of its structural adjustment program. To this end, the
project would (a) implement a phased sectoral adjustment program to lower per
student costs and improve the allocative efficiency of education resources;
(b) develop the planning, budgeting, cost-control and coordination capacity
of the Ministry of National Education; and (c) improve teacher effectiveness,
efficiency of primary school inspectors, and relevance and availability of
textbooks.
1.   Sectoral Adjustment Program
3.2       To permit expansion and improvement of primary education while
maintaining the share of the sector within the Government's recurrent budget
at its 1985/86 level, the project would embody a sectoral adjustment program
emphasizing financial restructuring and efficiency measures. The main
features of the program aere: (a) reduction of teacher and administrative
staff costs per student at the primary level; (b) reduction of per student
costs and subpidies in higher education and introduction of cost-recovery
systems; and ;c) establishment of budgetary growth ceilings for post-primary
levels. The policy measures of the sectoral adjustment program are outlined
below.
Proposed Sectoral Adjustment Policies
Objective:  Increase primary school enrollments from about 549,000 in the
1985/86 school year to about 726,000 by 1993/1994 by lowering
unit costs through more efficient use of teachers and facilities.
1.   Recruit candidates into teacher training programs at an "insti-
tuteur adjoint"/"instituteur" ratio of 80:20 from the 1986/87
school year (SY) onward; observe this ratio for the recruitment of
new teachers in order to eventually increase the current proportion
of "instituteurs adjoints"/"instituteurs" (47:53); and revise pre-
service training content and duration to ensure quality, while
maintaining the present entry-level grade for "instituteurs
adjoints."



-7-
2. Redeploy into classrooms 400 primary teachers presently in admini-
strative posts at inspectorates and secondary schools by 1991 (200
during SYs 1986/87 and 1987/88, and the remaining 200 between SYs
1988/89 and 1989/90), without replacing them in those adminis-
trative poste vacated by .heir transfer.
3.   Introduce a double-shift system in urban and a multigrade system
appropriate rural classrooms as of SY 1989/90, following
experimentation.
4.   Increase the student/teacher ratio in teacher training colleges
from 7:1 to about 15:1 by the 1988/89 school year.
5.   Consolidate specialized civil service training schools as of SY
1988/89 to increase student/teacher ratios to a level to be agreed
with IDA following a study to be conducted in 1987.
Objective: Increase primary education budget while maintaining the share of
the sector budget in the Government's recurrent budget at its
1985/86 level by containing education expenditures at post-
primary levels and reallocating funds thus made available to
primary education.
6.   Reduce subsidies to higher education by:  (a) reducing the fellow-
ship budget in real terms by 26% by SY 1994/95 (8% in SY 1987/88
and 3% p.a. from SY 1988/89 through 1994/95). The reduction would
be applied primarily to overseas fellowships by enforcing eligi-
bility criteria in accordance with equity, academie performance,
and national development needs; (b) introducing cost-recovery
systems such as student loans; and (c) reducing indirect subsidies
(budget for the University of Dakar Campus Services) in real terms
by 51% by 1994 (8% p.a. from SY 1987/88 through 1994/95).
7.   Establishing ceilings in real terms on budgetary growth rates of
primary administration (1%) secondary (1.5%) and higher education
(1% p.a., excluding subsidy and specialized school budgets) as of
SY 1987/88 through 1994/95 to lead to a cumulative reduction of
7.7%, 11.4% and 7.7%, respectively, by 1994/95.
The estimated impact of the above policy package is expected to increase
primary school enrollments by about 180,000 students ir. SY 1994/95 or, in
cumulative terms, between SYs 1987/88 and 1994/95, by 450,000 additional
student years. To ensure that the quality of education at all levels is
improved simultaneously with the implementation of the above operational and
financial restructuring policies, DERP would conduct studies on specific
measures to improve internal and external efficiency of education (para 3.4).
3.3       The above policies would be implemented by MEN in consultation with
the Ministries of Finance and Planning. Progress would be assessed during
two joint Govertment and IDA reviews whose timing would be linked to the
three phases of the project's classroom construction component (paras 3.11 -
3.13). Disbursements for the first phase of the construction program (50
classrooms) would be released upon effectiveness of the IDA credit. Since
progress in implementing the policy package is necessary to generate the
savings required to provide the recurrent budget for further expansion of



- 8 -
primary school enrollments, a condition of disbursement for the second phase
(175 classrooms) and the third phase (175 classrooms) of the construction
program would be realization of satisfactory progress in implementing the
above policy measures, as determined during the firat and second joint re-
vieve, respectively, in accordance with the established criteria. Annex 3-1
gives the estimated financial and enrollment impacts of the measures, as vell
as the criteria for progress reviews. Annex 3-2 provides details on the
studies to be undertaken by the Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning in support of the measures.
2.   Development of Planning, Budgeting and Cost-Control Capacity of the
Ministry of National Education
3.4       Strengthening the Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning. This Directorate would oversee implementation of the policy pack-
age, including conducting the studies in support of the sectoral adjustment
program, and would develop subsequent sectoral adjustment and growth plans
and cost-effectiveness measures. Specifically, the proposed project would
expand the support provided under the Third Education Project (para 2.10) to
help the Directorate to: (a) plan enrollment targets at each level of edu-
cation, estimate budgetary needs, and identify measures to generate necessary
financing; (b) establish a cost-control mechanism and conduct annual reviews
of education expenditures and budget; (c) collect and analyze sector-wide
demographic and budgetary statistics and publish them annually; (d) expand
school mapping to cover urban areas and secondary education; and (e) conduct
annual seminars for regional and departmental staff on collecting statistics,
school mapping, and projection of real demand for schooling. Annex 3-3
details implementation of this component.
3.5       The IDA credit would finance 52 manmonths of fellowships; 7 man-
months of local staff training; and 69 manmonths of foreign (60 manmonths)
and local (nine manmonths) specialist services. The credit would aleo
finance funds for a small-scale experimentation linked to the study on the
student loan system (para 3.2, Item 6(b)); office furniture and equipment,
including two vehicles; and incremental operating costs of equipment financed
under the project. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it will
implement the Directorate's work program as scheduled.
3.6       Minimizing primary school replacement needs and new construction
costs. To enable cost-effective expansion of primary education, the project
would support a program that would reduce unit capital costs by (a) deve-
loping a facility planning and budgeting capacity; (b) rehabilitating 100
classrooms; (c) developing a preventive maintenance system; and (d) con-
structing 400 low-cost/low-maintenance classrooms with community input.
3.7       Developing a facility planning and budgeting capacity.   In order
to minimize replacement costs and the need for new schools, the project would
help the Government to strengthen its capacity to maintain and manage exist-
ing infrastructure and to plan for physical expansion .1d its financing
through increased local government and community participation. To this end,
the project would create a Physical Facility Management Division within the
Directorate of School Construction and Equipment, and decentralize the
Directorate at the inspectorate level in the three project regions -- Louga,
Diourbel and Fatick -- by establishing technical coordinator positions. (The
three regions which comprise about 25% of the population, were selected on
the basis of a high level of community demand for schooling, territorial



- 9 -
contiguity, and low enrollment rates arising from an inadequate number of
schools.) The Division would maintain a computerized inventory of existing
infrastructure and would prepare annual plans and budgets for
maintenance/rehabilitation and, in coordination with the school aapping unit,
for school expansion. The Physical Facility Management Division would alseo,
through the Construction Division, establish basic standards for
construction. The technical coordinator and his assistant at each of the
three regions would serve as the liaison betveen the Directorate and the com-
munities. The project funds w.uld finance remodeling of office space for the
Physical Facility Management Division and for the three technical coordina-
tors; furniture and equipment, including a vehicle for each coordinator; nine
manmonths of specialist services (of which one manmonth would be for a local
specialist) to establish the inventory and budgeting systems; 20 manmonths of
fellowships on inventory management; 67 manmonths of local training for the
technical coordinators, headmasters and teachers; and incremental operating
costs related to the equipment to be provided. Annex 3-4 provides tasks to
be undertaken by the Directorate of School Construction and Equipment with
regard to the project construction activities.
3.8       Prior to negotiations, the Government issued a decree, agreed with
IDA, creating the Physical Facility Management Division and decentrallzing
the Directorate of School Construction and Equipment at the three project
regions. As a condition of Board presentation, the Governnent has issoued an
11arreté" on the organizational structure, responsibilities and functions of
DCES.
3.9       Primary school rehabilitation.  To maintain the value of existing
investments as well as support planned quality improvements in primary edu-
cation, the project would provide for the upgrading of 100 classrooms in the
three project regions and the supplement or repair of furniture. The work
would be done by local contrp tors under the supervision of the Directorate
of School Construction and E  ipment.  Furniture would be manufactured by
local artisans in accordance with existing prototypes. The proposed credit
would finance: 85% of the value of construction contracts; school furniture;
and two manmonths of the services of a specialist to help prepare bidding
documents. Details on the rehabilitation prograin are set out in Annex 3-5.
At negotiations, the Governinent agreed that counterpart financing (15% of the
value of construction contracts) vill be included in the annual school
repairs budget during the project implementation period and that the funds
vill be made available to the project.
3.10      Preventive maintenance.  Te transfer the responsibility for regular
maintenance and minor repairs to individual schools, the project would pre-
pare a preventive maintenance guide, train headmasters and teachers in the
basic techniques, furnish each school vith a basic tool kit, and on a need
basis, provide basic materials. Major repairs would remain the responsibi-
lity of the Directorate of School Construction and Equipment. The proposed
credit vould finance: building materials and craftsmen services; two
vehicles; 3,500 tool kits (one per three classrooms); four manmonths of
specialist services to develop the maintenance system; 120 manmonths of local
training for school staff; the printing of 2,500 manuals; and incremeital
operating costs related to project equipment. Annex 3-5 provides additional
details on the program. At negotiations, the Government agreed to develop a
preventive maintenance program, following a study and experimentatlon, by
June 30, 1988, and assign responsibility for the program to headmasters and
teachers as part of their regular duties.



- 10 -
3.11      Low-cost/low-maintenance achool construction through cost-sharing.
To develop a community-based school construction program, thereby reducing
central government financing, the project would: (a) develop replicable, low-
cost/low-maintenance school designs that are labor intensive and maximize the
use of local materials and traditional designs; and (b) construct about 400
primary classrooms based on these designs. The construction program would be
implemented in three phases (50, 175 and 175 classrooms) to optimize coet
efficiency through experience gained under each phase.   The Directorate of
School Construction and Equipment would evaluate each phase in terms of
design suitability for replication, cost, timeliness of completion, level of
community input, and implementation problems. Evaluation results would be
reviewed with IDA, and appropriate modifications would be made before
proceeding to the next phase.
3.12      Construction would be organized jointly by the technical coordi-
nators and communities, under the supervision of the Directorate of
Construction and Equipment. Construction would be implemented in Louga,
Diourbel and Fatick Regions at sites identtfied through school mapping.
Prior to the start of each phase, the program for that phase would be re-
viewed jointly with IDA to ensure concentration of sites to facilitate super-
vision and delivery of materials. The program would increase the number of
classrooms in these regions by 30%. It is estimated that the average cost
per student place would be reduced from the current US$184 to US$126 in 1986
prices. The share of labor is estimated at 60%, of which 54% is unskilled.
It is expected that 10 local laborers would be *t:ilized per classroom; at the
prevailing wage of CFAF 1,400/day, the addit.        Lncome generated for the
community from wage receipts alone would be - , 670,000 (US$1,860) per
classroom constructed. Communities would provide the local materials and
contribute 50% of the unskilled labor. Small local contractors would provide
the transport, technical know-how and skilled labor, and train masons and
brick-masons from among the unskilled labor provided by communities. School
furniture would be manufactured by local artisans on the basis of existing
prototypes. Annex 3-6 compares estimated per square meter cost of project
classrooms with those of other Bank Croup financed projects and indicates
that the cost ls below the average for the five regions shown. Site
selection criteria, description of construction activities for each of the
three phases, and the technology to be used are provided in Annex 3-7.
3.13      The IDA credit would finance 100% of construction materials; 80% of
skilled labor services and 50% of the unskilled labor costs; contractor
services; school furniture; 89 manmonths of specialist services (17 manmonths
foreign and 72 manmonths local architect/engineers to develop the technical
capacity of the Directorate of School Construction and Equipment and a
project officer to supervise implementation); 18 manmonths of fellowships; 96
manmonths of local training for communities; 216 manmonths of contractual
fees for field staff; and printing of construction guides and technical
documents. At negotiations, the Government agreed that (a) the 400
classrooms will be staffed by the 400 teachers redeployed from administrative
positions; and (b) the project classrooms will be located at sites agreed
with IDA. Linkage of disbursement for the construction phases to policy
progress is set out in para 3.3. In the event progress is satisfactory,
funds would be released for the next phase to permit overlapping of the
construction phases.



- il -
3.14      Establishing a project coordinetion capacity within the Ministry of
National Education. To develop capability to coordinale, support and monitor
implementation of the proposed and future education projects, the Government
has established a Project Unit within MEN. It is attached to the Office of
the Secretary General and headed by a full-time Project Director with respon-
sibility for overall supervision and coordination of project activities. He
will be supported by staff familiar with Bank Croup procedures who are
presently serving at the Project Unit of the Ministry of Equipment, which
until 1978 had the responsibility for school construction (para 2.9). In
addition, to facilitate coordination of the project's pedagogical aspects, an
educational planner who coordinated preparation of the proposed project has
been transferred from the Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and Plan-
ning to the Project Unit, and an administrator has been recruited to estab-
lish the management systems and procedural guidelines. The IDA credit would
finance furniture and equipment, including two vehicles; 87 manmonths of
specialist services; 13 manmonths of fellowships; fees for contractual staff;
and incremental operating costs of equipment financed under the project.
Prior to negotiations, the Government issued a decree, agreed with IDA, on
the responsibilities and functions of the Project Unit, and confirmed that
the Director has been appointed. As a condition of Board presentation the
Governnment has issued an "arrêté" on the organizational structure, responsi-
bilities and functions of the Project Unit. Annex 3-8 protides details on
the responsibilities and functions of the Project Unit.
3.   Improvement of Teacher Effectiveness and Efficiency of Primary
school Inspectors
3.15      Strengthening the National Pedagogical Institute (INEADE).  To
enhance INEADE's capacity to promote teacher effectiveness and increase
student achievement levels, and to ensure that the cost-efficiency measures
supported by the project (including recruitment of a higher proportion of
"instituteurs adjoints") do not dilute education quality, the project would
provide support to INEADE to: (a) adapt curricula to the Senegalese culture
and conditions and develop appropriate teaching methods and materials based
on classroom research and experimentation; (b) develop a battery of tests,
starting with French and mathematics, to assess student progress over time;
(c) prepare in-service training programs for teachers and inspectors; and
(d) jointly with the Teacher Training Colleges and the Directorate of Primary
Education, develop the structure and content of the revised "instituteur
adjoint" pre-service training program (para 2.4). INEADE would also experi-
ment with multigrade teaching in about 25 rural classrooms and various forms
of the double-shift system in 75 urban classrooms over a two-year period,
starting in th.e 1987/88 school year. On the basis of this experimentation,
INEADE would establish criteria and norms for the two systems, develop a plan
for implementation in appropriate classrooms (about 20% of total classrooms)
as of the 1989/90 school year, train teachers, headmasters and inspectors,
and prepare specialized curricula and materials. Annex 3-9 details on the
experimentation with double-shift and multigrade systems.
3.16      Project funds would finance the construction/rehabilitation of a
building for INEADE to improve its working conditions; furniture and equip-
ment, including three vehicles; 59 manmonths of local (four manmonths) and
foreign (55 manmonths) specialist services and 166 manmonths of fellowships;
100 manmonths of in-service training in double-shift and multigrade systems
and innovative teaching methods for teachers, headmasters and inspectors; and



- 12 -
incremental operating costs of the equipment provided. To remedy the
veaknesses of the Institute experienced since its creation (para 2.9), the
Governtent is conducting a study to strengthen the Institute' s organizational
structure and staffing. Accordingly a condition of credit effectiveness
would be the issuance of a decree, agreed with IDA and based on the
recommendations of a pre-investment study, specifying the reorganized
structure and revised functions of INEADE; and appointment of the key
supervisory/technical staff of INEADE in consultation with IDA. The
Government bas, as a condition of Board presentation, appointed a new
Director for INEADE, in consultation with IDA.   Progress in experimentation
with and implementation of the multigrade and double-shift systems would be
included in the two joint policy progress reviews (para 3.3).
3.17      Strengthening the role of inspectors in educational administration
and teacher support. To improve educational planning, management of edu-
cation budgets and personnel at the regional level, and support to head-
masters and teachers, the project would strengthen the regional and depart-
mental inspectorates in two ways. First, the project would complete the
study that the Governnent is currently conducting on the functions and
staffing of the inspectorates under a decentralized system. Following a
joint review of the study's recommendations, the project would experiment
with decentralization in the three project regions for two years, starting in
August 1988, and implement the new system nationwide as of the 1990/91 school
year. Redundant teachers who serve as administrative staff at inspectorates
would be redeployed into the 400 project classrooms, and assistant depart-
mental inspectors would be utilized solely as pedagogical advisers and
relieved of their general administrative tasks; and inspectors would be
provided with appropriate powers of sanction to deal with teacher absenteeism
and performance. Second, the project would provide a training program for
the staff of the regional and departmental inspectorates to prepare them for
their roles under decentralization and to upgrade their knowledge and skills
in educational and financial planning, cost control, personnel management,
school administration, pedagogical assistance to teachers, and academic
supervision. Annex 3-10 provides details on the decentralization process and
the training program.
3.18      The IDA credit would finance seven manmonths of foreign and 10 man-
months of local specialist services to assist in implementation of decentra-
lization and in the preparation and delivery of the staff training program;
50 manmonths of fellowships in school administration and 367 manmonths of
local training; reproduction equipment; vehicles for 27 of the 41 depart-
mental inspectorates, and 20 motorbikes for assistant inspectors partici-
pating in the experimentation; equipment and essential oftice furniture; and
incremental operating costs of the equipment provided under the project. In
addition, to rehabilitate offices in the 12 inspectorates participating in
the decentralization experiment, a line of credit of US$19,000 would be made
available to each one.
3.19      Provision of textbooks and teacher guides.  To increase the supply
of textbooks and teacher guides and to ensure oheir relevance for students
and teachers, the project would establish a Textbook Publishing Unit within
INEADE to create, adapt and publish textbooks and teacher guides, manage
textbook production and supply, and ensure the economical procurement of
textbooks and their safe storage in schools. The Unit would direct the pub-
lishing process, train and guide authors, and assess, revise and edit



- 13 -
manuscripts. Relevant units of INEADE would evaluate manuscripts, do
controlled testing in classrooms, and train teachers in textbook use. Over
one million textbooks, in 25 different titles in French, math, science and
local languages, and 61,000 teacher books/guides would be provided. Math and
science textbooks would be adapted and language textbooks would be written by
local authors. Each textbook would be shared by two students and the average
book life is estimated to be three years. It is estimated that by changing
production specifications the cost of a textbook developed by the Unit would
be 30% less than the current market price; the quality, however, would be
maintained or even improved. The Government is considering assessment of
fees for textbook loans as of the 1987/88 school year. Calculations indicate
that an average fee of CFAF 1,000 (US$2.80) per set of textbooks per year
would cover the replenishment cost of textbooks by 1990.   To ensure that the
fee scheme under consideration would be equitable and not discourage school
attendance in low-income areas, IDA would review the scheme with the Govern-
ment prior to implementation. Annex 3-11 provides details on the cost and
production schedules of textbooks to be developed, and a comparison of expen-
ditures and income under the current free distribution system and the
proposed fee system.
3.20      Project funds would finance furniture for the Textbook Publishing
Unit; printing and publishing of textbooks and teacher guides, including the
cost of purchasing adaptation rights from original publishers and the cost of
co-publishing; storage cabinets for schools; equipment and one vehicle; 24
manmonths of the services for a publishing specialist and production
controller; 12 manmonths of fellowships for the Unit's Director and Editor;
27 manmonths of local training for authcrs and inspectors; distribution of
the new textbooks; and incremental operating costs related to the equipment
provided.
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.21      The total project cost is estimated at US$19.6 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$12.2 million (62%). The project
would be exempt from taxes and duties. Base cost estimates have been
adjusted to July 1986, the date of negotiations, on the basis of June-
November 1985 prices. Total contingencies of US$4.7 million represent 31% of
base line costs. Physical contingencies of 10% applied to civil works,
furniture and equipment represent 4% (US$0.6 million) of base costs and price
contingencies 27% (US$4.0 million) of base costs. Price contingencies are
based on the implementation schedule and the following expected increases in
local and foreign prices: 6.8% for 1987-88, 7.0% foi 1989, 7.1% for 1990,
and 4.0% for 1991-94. Inflation rates are assumed to be equal for both
foreign and local costs because of compensatory exchange rate adjustments.
An IDA credit of Special Drawing Rights 10.2 million (US$12.0 million) and a
loan of US$5.3 million equivalent from the Nigerian Trust Fund, administered
by the African Development Bank (AfDB), would be provided towards financing
of the project. Co-financing plans were firmed up during negotiations. The
AfDB credit would finance the project's textbook, classroom rehabilitation
and maintenance components, and also the civil works, furniture, equipment
and incremental operating cost categories of the INEADE component. The IDA
credit would finance the specialist services for that component. The IDA and
AfDB credits would finance 61% and 27% of the total project cost, respec-
tively. The Government would contribute the remainder (US$2.3 million
equivalent) to include 2C% of incremental operating costs, cash and in-kind



- 14 -
contrïbutions of local governments and communities for unskilled labor, local
construction materials and manufacturing of classroom furniture. A condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that all conditions necessary for
an initial disbursement of funds from AfDB have been met. Annexes 3-12, 3-13
and 3-14 provide details on the base cost estimates, project costs, and
financing plan, respectively.
3.22      Recurrent cost implications.  The 400 project classrooms would be
staffed by 400 teachers redeployed from administrative positions without
replacing them in those posta vacated by their transfer (para 3.17). More-
over, as a result of the proposed policy measures, the estimated 40% increase
in current enrollments in the school year 2000/2001 is not expected to
generate an increase in the share of education expenditures within the
Government's recurrent budget from its 1985/86 level.  Staff for the Physical
Facility Management Division and for the Textbook Unit would be transferred
from other MEN services or ministries. The textbook component is expected to
reduce the current governiment expenditures for textbooks. Moreover, the
Government's proposal to create a revolving fund from fees charged for text-
book use is expected to cover the cost of stock replenishment, including
distribution and losses, by 1990. Also, the textbook rental fee would be
adjusted for inflation. The appropriateness of this proposed fee system
vould be reviewed with the Government prior to implementation (para 3.19).
C.  Project Implementation
1.   Preparation, Management and Institution Building
3.23      Preparation and present status.  Implementation plans and schedules
for all components have been prepared. Sites for all classroom and office
building construction/rehabilitation have been identified. The Government is
finalizing the study on the modification of the prototype classrooms, deve-
loped under the Third Education Project, and the survey for school rehabili-
tation. Contracts for classroom construction and rehabilitation, repre-
senting over 75% of the total cost for civil works, would ba ready for
tendering by December 1986, prior to the estimated date of credit effective-
ness (January 1987). For construction/rehabilitation of a building to house
INEADE (para 3.16), financing would be provided by AfDB; draft designs and
bid documents would be available by December 1986 and finalized by March
1987. Furrniture and equipment lists have been reviewed by IDA and found
acceptable. The Government has issued the decrees on the Physical Facility
Management Division and the Project Unit (paras 3.8 and 3.14). The Director
of the Project Unit has been appointed. The cros--effectiveness condition
for the AfDB credit is expected to be fulfilled prior to IDA credit
effectiveness, as AfDB intends to submit the project to its Board in October-
November 1986.
3.24      Project management.  The project period is eight years (January 1,
1987 - December 31, 1994). The project would be implemented by the relevant
MEN Directorates through a coordinator assigned to each component. The
Directorate of School Construction and Equipment would be responsible for the
primary school maintenance, rehabilitation and construction program. The
inspectorate component would be implemented by the Directorate of Elementary
Education. The Project Unit would coordinate project implementation, serve
as liaison between IDA and the project agencies, and support the Directorates
in the areas of procurement, financial administration, documentation,



- 15 -
monitoring and reporting. At negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that it vill (a) appoint project staff in accordance with the staff appoint-
ment schedule; and (b) prepare an annual local and foreign training program
for project staff satisfactory to IDA and implement it thereafter. The
implementation and staff appointment schedules are provided in Annexes 3-15 and
3-16.
3.25      Specialist services and fellovships.  The project vould provide 311
manmonths of overseas fellowships and observation visite; 717 manmonths of
local training; and 360 manmonths of local (122 manmonths) and foreîgn (238
manmonths) specialist services. Terms of reference for the specialists have
been prepared. Technical assistance contracte vould be avarded to consulting
firms. At negotiations, the Government agreed that (a) fellowships will be
awarded on the basis of agreed criteria and procedures; and (b) fellovship
recipients will remain in their poste for at least five years upon completion
of their studies. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be
that the technical assistance contracte for the first year of projection
operation, have been signed, following consultation with IDA. Details of the
specialist services and fellovships programs and award criteria are provided
in Annexes 3-17 and 3-18.
2.   Procurement
3.26      Imported equipment and building materials, valued at US$1.6 million
equivalent, representing about 70% of the total value of equipment and build-
ing materials, would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines and grouped into bid packages of at
least US$100,000 equivalent. Where ICB procedures are used, goode manufac-
tured locally would be given a preference margin, in accordance with Govern-
ment guidelines, of 15% or the applicable custome duty, whichever is less.
Contracts which are emall in size or involve videly dispersed sites are not
likely to attract foreign bidders. These contracte would be awarded through
local competitive bidding (LCB) or local shopping. Procurement through LCB,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, would be applied to bid
packages valued at between US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent and would
comprise: (a) local building materials and construction contracts (valued at
US$1.18 milllin equivalent), and (b) contracts for furniture, equipment and
items relatei to operating expenses (valued at US$2.69 million equivalent).
Procurement through local shopping (by inviting at least three quotations) in
accordance with local procedures would be applied to local building materials
and unskilled labor contracts valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent (total
value of US$2.33 million equivalent). Specialist services and fellovships,
totaling about US$5.0 million, would be procured in accordance vith IDA's
guidelines on the use of consultants. Procurement packages (announcements,
bid documents and proposed contract awards) valued at or exceeding US$100,000
equivalent, representing about 18% of the total value of IDA-financed con-
tracte for civil works and goode, would be subject to IDA's review prior to
award. This percentage is lower than usual oving to the project's objective
to involve communities in classroom construction and utilize local materials
and craftsmen. Accordingly, the remaining 72% of the civil works and goods
contracte, or about 440 contracts, would be subject to random or post-review
by IDA. Procurement of contracte for components financed by AfDB on a
parallel basis would follow procedures acceptable to AfDB. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 3-19.



- 16 -
Ainounts and Methods of Procurement
(UfS million)
%                     Procurement Methods
1.  Civil Works                      Disb.      ICB      LCB       Other       NA a/       Total
(a) Building materials                     .80      .40         .10         ...        1.30
(Part E)                    (100)    (.80)    (.40)        (.10)       ...        (1.30`
(b) General contracta                               .78         ...       1.56         2.34
(Parts B,E,H)                (80)       ...    (.62)        ...        ...         (.62)
(Parts C,D,G,I)              <85>       ...     ...         ...      <1.33>       <1.33>
(c) Labor services                          ...      ...       2.23        ...         2.23
(Part E)                      (50)       ...      ...      (1.11)       ...        (1.11)
2. Furniture
(a) Office furniture                        ...     .29          ...       .08          .37
(Parts A,B,E F,H)           (100)       ...    (.29)         ...       ...         (.29)
(Parts C,G,Ii               <100>                                     <.08>        <.08>
(b) Tables/benches/storage                  ...     .80          ...        .55        1.35
(Part E)                     (80)       ...    (.64)         ...       ...         (.64)
(Part C,I)                  (100)                                     <.55>        <.55>
3.  E uipment/Vehicles                         .80       .10        .09         .39        1.38
(Parts A,B.E,F H)               (100)    (.80)    (.10)        (.09)       ...         (.99)
(Parts D C.G,I        3         <100>                   ....   ..<:39>   .<.39>
4.  Textbooks                                   ...       ...        ...       1.60        1.60
(Par-t  I)                      <100>       ...      ...         ...     <1.60>       <1.60>
5.  S         ecialist Services                 ...       ...      3.98         .38        4.36
(Parts A B E Y G H)             (100)       ...       .       . (3.98)      ..*.      (3.98)
(Parts C:D,I)                   <100>       ...      ...        ...       <.38>        <.38>
6.  Fellowships/Local Trainin8                  ...       ...      1.01         .59        1.60
(Parts A, ,E F,H)               (100)       ...      ...      (1.01)       ...        (1.01)
(Parts D,G,I3                   <100>                                     <.59>        <.59>
7.  Incremental Operatina Cots                  ...    1.50        1.08         .50        3.08
(Parts A,B,E,F H)                (80)       ...   (1.20)       (.86)       ...        (2.06)
(Parts C,D,G,I3                  <80>       ...     ...         ...       <.40>        <.40>
Total Costs                          1.60     3.87        8.49       5.65        19.61
(1.60)   (3.25)      (7.15)       ...       (12.00)
...      ...         ...      <5.32>       <5.32>
Notes:
1.   Figures in parentheses represent IDA; those in Il< >"1 denote AfDB financing.
2.   Part A:  Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and Planning
Part B:  Physical Facility Management Division
Part C:  Primary school rehabilitation (100 classrooms)
Part D:  Preventive maintenance
Part E:  Primary school construction (400 claserooms)
Part F:  Project Unit
Part G: National Pedagogical Institute (INEADE)
Part H:  Inspectorates
Part I:  Textbooks and teacher guides (costs except printing and publishing are covered
under other relevant categories).
a/   Represents mounts for which the method of procurement will follow AfDB guidelines.



- 17 -
3.   Disbursements
3.27       The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of eight years
(between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1994) in accordance with the
regional sector profile. The credit proceeds would be disbursed on the basis
of the table shown below. The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 3-20.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Amounts                % of Expenditures
(US$'000)              to be Financed by
Item                             IDA                         IDA
1. Civil Works
(a) Building materials                   1,OOO                        100
(b) Civil works contracts                  645                        80
(c) Labor services                         900                        50
2. Furniture
(a) Office furniture                       200                       100
(b) School furniture                       550                        80
3. Equipment/Vehicles                         850                       10l
4. Specialist Services                      3,400                       100
5. Fellowships/Local Training                 550                       100
6. Incremental Operating Coste              1,905                        80
Initial diabursement for
the special account                          400                       ...
Unallocated                                 1.600
Total                               12,000
3.28       Special Account.  A Special Account of US$400,000 equivalent,
denominated in convertible CFA francs, would be established at a local bank
for disbursements under the IDA credit. The amount is estimated to cover
three months' expenses for: (a) short-term specialist services, and pet diem
travel for local and overseas training; (b) civil works, furniture, equip-
ment, and transport contracts valued at under US$20,000 equivalent; and
(c) incremental operating costs of the project. Replenishment applications
to IDA would be aggregated into packages of at least US$80,000 equivalent and
would be accompanied by the full documentation, except for expenses related



- 18 -
to in-country training, fees, incremental operating costs, and contracts
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be reimbursed against
certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Documentation for SOEs would be
retained at the Project Unit for review by IDA and project auditors. Reim-
bursement applications would also include a statement of account movements
since the last application, with the balance certified by the bank holding
the account, and a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the
original amount less payments awaiting reimbursement or small working
advances. The Special Account would be operated under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, and should any disbursements made subsequently be dis-
allowed by IDA, the Government would be responsible for reimbursing the
Special Account for the corresponding amount.
4.   Auditing and Reporting
3.29      The Project Unit would maintain separate accounts for the IDA
credit, AfDB credit, and Government counterpart financing. These accounts
vould be further subdivided into expenditures incurred for each component.
At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) all project
accounts will be audited annually and all disbursement against statements of
expenditure will be audited semi-annually by an independent auditor accept-
able to IDA; (b) the Government will submit to IDA the audit reports on pro-
ject accounts by December 31 of each year and the audit reports on statements
of expenditure by June 30 and December 31 of each year; (c) the audit reports
will certify that funds were used for the purposes for which they were pro-
vided. Audit fees would be financed by the IDA credit; and (d) the Project
Unit will submit semi-annual reports to IDA on project implementation and
expenditures, special reports on a need basis, and a final report on imple-
mentation experience and project outcomes within six months of the IDA Credit
Closing Date.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  Through the application of the sectoral adjustment
policies the project would, in 1994, help increase enrollments in primary
schools nationwide by about 32% (an estimated 180,000 additional students or,
in cumulative terms, over the period SY 1987/88 through 1994/95, by about
450,000 additional student years) without increasing the share of education
in the Government budget from its 1985/86 level. The classroom construction
program in the three project regions would increase enrollment rates by 7%
(about 18,000 additional student places), reduce construction unit costs
by about 35%, and develop replicable classroom designs and a cost-sharing
system by communities. The cost-efficiency measures would be accompanied by
improvements in the quality of education through provision of relevant
textbooks, revision of curricula, and teacher and inspector upgrading
programs. Support to institution building would yield the long-term benefit
of improved education planning, budgeting and resource management capacities.
4.2       Risks.  The project has two potential risks.  First, sectoral
adjustment measures such as reducing higher education subsidies or



- 19 -
introducing double-shift system may not be fully endorsed by teachers,
students or parents. Avare of this risk, the Government has been pursuing a
public acceptance campaign. In addition, the project provides for two joint
Government/IDA reviews to assess progress achieved in implementing the
sectoral adjustment policy measures and to make any necessary modifications.
The second risk concerns possible delays in implementing the classroom
construction program, oving to MEN's limited technical capacity and the
experimental nature of cost-sharing with communities. To reduce this risk, a
key criterion for selecting the target communities is their commitment to
contribute about 25% of the classroom construction costs in cash or in kind.
In addition, the Government would prepare annual construction programs and
monitor their implementation to ensure timely completion.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMOENDATIONS
5.1       Prior to negotiations, the Government:
(a) issued a decree, agreed vith IDA, creating the Physical Facility
Management Division and decentralizing the Directorate of School
Construction and Equipment at the three project regions (para 3.8);
and
(b) issued a decree, agreed vith IDA, on the responsibilities and func-
tions of the Project Unit, and appointed the Director (para 3.14).
5.2       At negotiations agreement was reached vith the Government that:
(a) the vork program of the Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning will be implemented as scheduled (para 3.5);
(b) counterpart financing (15% of the value of construction contracts)
will be included in the annual school repairs budget during project
implementation period and the funde will be made available to the
project (para 3.9);
(c) a preventive maintenance program vill be developed by June 30,
1988, and responsibility for the program vill be assigned to head-
masters and teachers as part of their regular duties (para 3.10);
(d) the 400 classrooms to be constructed under the project vill be
staffed by 400 teachers redeployed from administrative positions,
and the project classrooms will be located at sites agreed with IDA
(para 3.13);
(e) project staff will be appointed ln accordance vith the staff
appointment schedule, and an annual loc^al and foreign training
program for project staff satisfactory to IDA will be prepared and
implemented thereafter (para 3.24);
(f) fellowships will be awarded on the basis of agreed criteria; and
fellowship recipients will remain in their posts for at least five
years upon completion of their studies (para 3.25); and



- 20 -
(g)  all project accounts vill be audited annually and all disbursement
against statements of expenditure vill be audited semi-annually by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; audit reports on project
accounts vill be submitted to IDA by December 31 of each year, and
audit reports on statements of expenditure will be submitted to IDA
by June 30 and December 31 of each year; the audit reports vill
certify that funds vere used for the purposes for which they were
provided; and the Project Unit vill submit semi-annual reports to
IDA on project implementation and expenditures, special reports on
a need basis, and a final report on implementation experience and
project outcomes within six months of the IDA Credit Closing Date
(para 3.29).
5.3       As a condition of Board presentation, the Government has appointed
a new Director for INEADE, in consultation with IDA; and issued the arrêtés
on the organizational structure, responsibilities and functions of the
Project Unit and DCES (paras 3.8, 3.14 and 3.16, respectively).
5.4       Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be that (a) all
conditions necessary for an initial disbursement of funds from AfDB have been
met (para 3.21); (b) the Government has issued a decree, agreed with IDA and
based on the recommendations of a pre-investnent study, specifying the re-
organized structure and revised functions of INEADE; and has appointed the
key supervisory/technical staff of INEADE in consultation with IDA
(para 3.16); and (c) the technical assistance contracts for the first year of
project implementation have been signed, folloving consultation vith IDA
(para 3.25).
5.5       A condition of disbursement for the second phase (175 classrooms)
and the third phase (175 classrooms) of the classroom construction program
vould be realization of satisfactory progress in implementing the policy
measures, as determined during the first and second joint reviews, respec-
tively, in accordance with the established criteria (para 3.3).
5.6       Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 10.2 million (US$12.0 million) to the Republic
of Senegal.
WAPED
September 1986



- 21 -                     ANNEX 1
Page1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita (1984):              US$380
Land area:                          197,000 km2
Population (1984):                  6.4 million
Population growth rate (natural):  3.0% p.a.
Adult literacy rate:                28%
Number of Students and Enrollment Rates (1984/85)
Net Enrollment
Level             Public    Private    Total         Rates (M)
Pre-primary                  4,089      6,169   10,258            --
Primary                    515,000    50,439  565,439    39.6 (51.9 gross)
Lower Secondary General     58,204    31,787   89,991)   11.7
Lover Secondary Technical    4,622       --      4,622)
Upper Secondary General      17,301     4,601   21,902)    4.5
Upper Secondary Technical    3,441        921    4,362)
Higher Education             11,878      --     11,878     2.0
Total                 614,535    93,917  708,452
Education Cost and Financing (1985/86)
Education Budget             % of
Level/Category                (in million CFAF)      Education Budget
Primary                                  21,350                   46.3
Secondary General                         8,026                    17.4
Administration and Other                  4,458                     9.7
Secondary Technical                       2,727                    5.9
Teacher Training                            838                     1.8
Higher Education                          8,683                    18.9
Total                               46,082                  100.0
As % of Government Recurrent
Budget                                    23.2%



- 22 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Recurrent Co0t per Student, 1984/85 (CFAF and US$):
Level                                            Cost per Student and Year
1984/85
CFAP                    US$
Pre-primary                                     94,155                    261
Prlmary                                         41,998                    117
Lover secondary colleges                       110,878                    308
Lcwer secondary in "lycées"                    164,347                    456
Upper Secondary                                213,866                    594
Technical secondary                            220,958                    614
Teacher training                             1,209,836                  3,361
University                                     811,900                  2,255
WAPED
March 1986



'-4
I.                                                                                                                  -
[1
I            4>
*            v                                                   c
i   *48               4>                                                 O                           4.
t>.!'                I..                                                4>
O>'    >'    >    >4                                      4                      i
44                                                4>                     I          i                 4>
4.                                                 4.
r---'
[lji'                                [39'                       .    11111   triai   lu                                                  i  V
b                                                                                 4>                  44.0
>4                                                                                                                    4.                       c
4.                                             4>0                 '94.4.4.4.
4.                                                                                                                      o                         4>                       -
-     n      -     --                         >4                                                 4>                        4.
54>4                -                    -            0   O                            4>
o.                                                                                                                 o      0
44>    O    O      <4>    O             4.>'    >.    4>    4>                            .0      0
*                              4.                                                                             .   >4    >4                            o>'
o
5   -                                             I  '9co
os,    40                                        
04>       4>                                                  4>
.4>4.                                               -u
14             >4>                                             40   >>
4.4.   44>4>..  4.4>                   4.                                . 
                 *'<
c s..
40

W.'UvDflaz Aaycxooa$ nm's                                                                                       40



R E P U B L 1 C  0 F  S E N E G A L                                                     Reference: Decree 0 86 877
REPUBLIC OF SENAL                                                                                                                                                             19 Ju19 1986 on the
NIIlSTRY  0F NATIONAL. EDUCATION.---                               OEVOANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF iATIONAL EDUCATION                                                     organization of the
______'_RY _OF __A_Io _________TI _ _                                                                                                                                                  M2.niatty   of   National
SERI!TARY GENERAL-LECAL AFFAIRS.                                                                                                                                                       Education.
LIAISON  LSD DOCUNENTATION DIVISION
Inapen-  National    National   National    Arabieî      Prtvate                                            Amnsa
LAB~~~~I R ECTRAT-ENSA 
Cii 0f     D~~irtoat      f  oe  6        f              f                 Bsew                                of            cf eof Stiadis                    Sconol      c  Deara-          oIv
fNPrxaaryfor                        tion         tionl          io                                  fitionnc rance              Services   -LiProe  -    it
Nai'r-onal   Sdction fo  Rta       te-iehîal               Teiig88.                                                              Nfr            R    a ffrca   ios  ng *06        o en *
EdUC  on                                                                | i '                                     Euaatn i. mit    VDaineg |ulna                               E Dgivein    tan
raicuTrain                                                                                                           ttin
[DIRECTORATESI                                                                                                      "
t          D irectortd          octt                       ettrectora                                                             Di ector. -ate 
-_   i JE4#i&- _-  -   _                                    IZo! tiLat:                                                           -  it   - r.y.E' - G     t
Dv i.z                              C        Triniitng                                              as,iw_ .       Ref"*_ct Dd _ orm
-»e1} -Spth-i- gr s_iF tWit St'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~td.t ..L.
C^utdt", Uni.t e  st  ta"l A*1le a
ttifl.iZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~td-t                                                                                     j-i
_-di.         c-d1sà.         td.   i-      t. tu                                                                                                                                     iZ-it.
-sy«b...  Y,"Wm se-"                                                                                          M7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-e. h..t.»l
-0t    . :.M
bi~~~~~~~i.i-                                          tkit                                                                         Std=t S .. i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Di



-25 -                       ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST, FINANCING AND EFFICIENCY OF THE SENEGALESE EDUCATION SYSTEM
This annex provides descriptive and statistical data. Tables
included are:
Table 1 - Central Government Recurrent Expenditures for Education,
1965-85 (page 5)
Table 2 - Enrollments by Level of Education, 1965-85 (page 6)
Table 3 - Breakdown of Central Government Recurrent Budget for
Education by Level, 1985/86, (page 7)
Table 4 - Average Unit Costs by Level or Type of Education, 1984/85
(page 8)
Table 5 - Student/Teacher Ratios by Urban/Rural Distribution, 1984/85
(page 9)
Table 6 - Student/Teacher, Student/Professional Staff Ratios in
Secondary Education, 1984/85 (page 9)
Table 7 - Unit Costs by Discipline at the University of Dakar, 1984/85
(page 10)
Table 8 - Breakdown of Central Government Budget for Higher Education,
1985/86 (page 11)
Table 9 - Marginal Rate of Return to Education in Senegal (page 12)
A.   Background
1.        Since 1960, despite the economic problems faced by Senegal and
the low GDP growth of 2.3%, the education system has experienced
significant, although unbalanced, growth. This is attributable to two
factors: (a) the Government budget has grown much faster than the economy
(from 8.4% in 1960 to 20.3% in 1984); and (b) the education budget has
increased from 17% in the mid 1960s to 25% in 1984, representing a growth
from less than 1.0% of GDP to 5.0% (see Table 1). Given the worsened
economic situation of the country since 1980 and the excess of expenditures
over revenues, the Government has mandated the containment of public
expenditures. Consequently, further increases in the education budget in
the medium term are unlikely. Unless measures are taken to allocate and
utilize resources more efficiently and to increase the share of private
participation in education, the current low net enrollment rate of 40% in
primary educatlon can be expected to decline, given the 3% per annum
population growth rate. The importance of these measures becomes even more



- 26 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 12
urgent in light of the Government's objective to achieve universal primary
education by the year 2000.
2.        In Senegal, as in many other francophone and sub-Saharan African
countries, the emphasis has been on secondary and h4gher education, where
enrollments and resource allocations have far outpaced those for primary
education. About 1980, however, this general tendency began to show signs
of changing: enrollments at the University of Dakar declined slightly
between 1980 and 1985, while enrollments in primary schools increased at an
average rate of 7.6% per year, resulting in an lncrease of 4% in the
primary enrollment ratio (see Table 2).
3.        Internal efficiency is low at all educational leveis, and the
curricula content has an academie focus rather than a practical orientation
to facilitate access to productive employment. Only 40% of pupils entering
primary school actually graduate, and to produce one primary school
graduate requires 15.9 pupil-years, compared with the ideal maximum of six
years. Similarly, at the University of Dakar only 25% of the students
receive their degrees.
B.   Cost and Financing of Education
4.        Public schools are financed primarily by the Government (87.6%),
with limited contributions (2.8%) to recurrent expenses from communities
and families (3.5%), for a total of about 94%. Private schools receive
6.1% of public funds for education. The contribution of external
assistance is difficult to quantify. France, which is the largest
contributor, provides financing primarily for post-primary levels.
5.        Salaries at all levels and cash or in-kind subsidies to secondary
and especially higher education represent the largest share of the
Government's recurrent budget for education. At the primary level, the
proportion of salaries is as high as 99.6% (see Table 3). Consequently,
expenditures for non-salary inputs such as teaching aids and textbooks are
minimal, contributing to the low level of internal efficiency.
Unit Costs
6.        Unit costs in pre-primary schooling and teacher training are
especially high in Senegal -- CFAF 94,15r (US$261) and CFAF 1,209,836
(US$3,361), respectively. The primary reason Is the low pupil/teacher
ratio in pre-primary (12:1) and in teacher training (6.6:1), the latter due
to the curtailment of growth of the civil service and major reduction of
intake to achools preparing students for public employment. Table 4
provides unit costs by level of education and compares them to those in
other country groupings.
7.        In primary education, the unit cost is estimated at CFAF 42,000
(US$117) or 26% of GNP per capita. This results from the relatively high
cost of teachers (more than 8 times the GNP per capita) and an average
pupil/teacher ratio of 46:1. There are, however, wide variations in the
pupil/teacher ratio (an average range between 31% and 66% as shown in
Table 5), and therefore in unit coste between regions and between urban and
rural areas. For example, it is estimated that in urban areas of the



- 27 -                       ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 12
Casamance Region, the unit cost is about CFAF 30,000 (US$83), whereas it is
over CFAF 60,000 (US$167) in rural areas of Senegal Oriental. To utilize
teachers and physical facilities more efficiently, implementation of a
multigrade system in rural areas should be considered.
8.        At the secondary level, the unit cost varies by 50% between lower
secondary schools (CEGs) that are separate from a lycée (upper secondary)
and CEGs that are physically located in lycées. The reason for this is
that more than 40% of the staff in lycées are trained teachers but have no
teaching duties. Their salaries constitute 36% of the secondary level's
personnel budget. Furthermore, in upper secondary the pupil/teacher ratio
is only 19:1, which clearly is too small. When one takes into account the
entire staff of the lycées, the pupil/staff ratio is 11:1 (see Table 6).
There is ample room for achieving significant savings at the lycées through
more efficient utilization of teachers.
9.        In hi8her education, the unit cost amounts to CFAF 812,000
(US$2,255), or five times the GNP per capita. This cost can be expressed
in two parts: the unit cost for the "pedagogical" component (academic
aspects, including personnel costs) and the "social" component (bursaries,
subsidized room and board, and transportation for students). There is a
large potential for realizing cost savings in the "pedagogical" component,
which represents 69% of the unit cost, because: (a) the average
student/teacher ratio is about 16:1, which ie low for a large university
(11,000 students); and (b) the number of non-teaching staff (875 vis-a-vis
a teaching force of 721) is excessive. Similarly, the "social" component,
representing 31% of the unit cost, offers an area for significant economies
through tightening of the eligibility criteria and introducing measures for
student participation in financing a share of their education costs.
Table 7 provides detailed breakdown of the higher education unit costs, and
Table 8 shows the functional breakdown of the higher education budget.
Economie and External Efficiency
10.       External efficiency of education and economic efficiency in
allocating resources to the various educational levels could be improved in
Senegal. As Table 9 shows, the marginal rate of return l/ is the lowest
for lower secondary education and second lowest for the four-year higher
education. They also indicate that the difference between private and
social rates of return widen as the level of education increases. For the
four-year higher education, the private rate is about 2.4 times greater
thar the social rate. These figures are indicative of the following:
(a) lower secondary education is considered as a transition to upper
secondary and does not prepare students for the job market; (b) at the
higher education level, the high private rates, relative to social returns,
result partly from the subsidy structure which tends to push studenti  to
continue beyond the level of education that is economically efficient; and
1/   In the absence of detailed employment and wage data, the rate of
return figures should be considered as orders of magnitude and
interpreted in relative terms.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 12
(c) globally, analysis of the rate of return structure shows a need for
regulating access to lover secondary and for increasing cost recovery in
upper secondary and higher education.
11.       Distribution of enrollments at the varîous levels of schooling
and the unit costs result in an unequal distribation of public resources
for education among members of a given generation. The data show that
public resources for education are highly concentrated, whereby 4.5% of the
age group whose final level of schooling is upper secondary or university
receive 50.7% of the public resources for education. The distribution of
public resources in education is, in fact, probably more skewed than these
figures indicate; but since data are not available on the socio-economic
and geographic origin of those who succeed in receiving secondary and
higher education, and thus a disproportionate share of the public
resources, this assertion cannot be verified.
12.       In sum, long-term development of the education sector in general,
and expansion of primary education in particular, will depend largely on
the implementation of appropriate policies to promote efficient and
equitable allocation and use of sector resources.



Annex 2-3/SENIV
Table 1 - Central Government Recurrent Expenditures for Education, 1965-85
(In CFAF billion)
1965/66  1970/71  1975/76  1877/78  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83 1983/84 1984/85
Budget of Ministry
of National
Education               4.1       5.6      12.5     14.9      17.9     20.1      21.7      27.1    27.9    32.7
Budget of State
Secretariat for
Technical Education
and Vocational
Training                1.1       1.1     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      2.5      2.4
Budget of Ministry
of Higher Education   n.a.       n.a.       2.7      4.2       5.7      6.7       7.0      7.6      8.1      8.1
Education
expenditures of
other ministries        0.3       0.4       1.0      1.3       1.4      1.5       2.0      2.9      3.1      3.4
Total education
expenditures            5.5       7.1     16.2      20.4      25.0     28.3      30.7     37.6    41.7    46.6
Total recurrent
expenditures of
central government    33.1       39.5     74.6      89.0    106.0    115.6    125.5    151.4   166.9   186.4
% share of education
in central
government budget      16.6      18.0     21.7      22.9      23.6     24.5      24.4     24.8    25.0    25.0
Z share of                                                                                                           O 2
education in GDP       0.86      2.68     3.30      3.69      4.51     5.46      5.24     4.96    5.08    n.a.
o: 



Table 2 - Enrollments by Level of Education, 1965-85
Enrollments (Public and Private)
Primary             Lover Secondary            Upper Secondary              Higher
School Year             Education               Education                   Education               Education ai
1965166                 218,795                  23,685                       4,801                    2,139
1972/73                 283,276                  52,053                      11,670                    5,37,6
1977/78                 345,585                  62,987                      15,481                    8,753
1980/81                 419,748                  73,234                      18,937                   12,673
1981/82                 452,679                  79,408                      20,897                   11,754
1982/83                 496,066                  86,734                     22,468                    11,366
1983/84                 533,394                  88,890                      24,049                   10,492
1984/85                 565,439                  94,613                      26,264                   11,878
a/   Excludes specialized training schools.                                                                               £
o
CD
g-



Table 3 - Breakdown of Central Governuent Recurrent Budget for Education by Level. 1985/86
Budgeted Aiounts                  % Distribution of Functional              % Share of Total
(CFAF '000)                        Allocaticon Within Levels              Recurrent Budget
Transfer                                 Transfer                           Transfer
Level/Category           Personnel  Material  Payments    Total   Personnel Material Payoents Total Personnel Material Payments Total
Administration           1,094,385    443,885      --      1,538,270    71.1    28.9         --      100     2.3      1.0        -      3.3
Prlmary                 21,256,681     86,050      7,771  21,350,502    99.6       0.4       --      100    46.1      0.2       --    46.3
Secondary                7,049,730    453,904    522,617   8,026,251    87.8       5.7      6.5      100    15.3      1.0      1.1    17.4
Teacher Training           492,709     87,992    257,370     838,071    58.8    10.5    30.7         100     1.1      0.2      0.5      1.8
Academic and career
orientation center and
practical education        44,116      9,981      --         54,097    81.5    18.5         --      100     0.1       --       --      0.1
Common expenditures      1,519,844    345,000    227,146   2,091,990    72.6    16.5    10.9         100     3.3      0.7      0.5      4.5
Transfers to private
education                  --          2.803    770.106     772,909     --       0.4    99.6        100     --                1.8      1.8
Ministry of National
Education -- Total     32.457.465  1.429.615  1.785.010  34.672.090    90.7      4.1       5.2      100    68.2      3.1      3.9     75.2
State Secretariat for
Tecimical Education
and Vocational
Training                1.844.366    379.405    503.585   2.727,356    67.6      13.9     18.5      100    4.0       0.8      1.1      5.9
Ministry of Higher
EMucation                 895.432    363.218  7.424.725   8.683.37S    10.3      4.2      85.5      100     2.0      0.8     16.1     18.9   > 
Total Recurrent                                                                                                                                 >4
Government Budget                                                                                                                            O
for Education          34,197,263  2,172,238  9,713,320  46,082,821    74.2      4.7     21.1       100    74.2      4.7     21.1   100.0   >  uJ
-        _      -          -           -          -        -      _                  -                          -



Table 4 - Average Unit Costs by Level or Type of Education, 1984/85
(in CFAP)
Kinder-             Lover Secondary 1I             Tp.acher   Technical University
garten    Primary   CET-CEG   Lycées   Secondary Training  Education  of Dakar
Academic cost for the
Government of Senegal        94,155    41,868   101,578   155,047   146,111    916,393  153,133         508,134
Total academic cost
(including external aid)    94,155    41,868   101,578   155,047   201,923    949,180  187,280         558,647
Subsidy Cost                      0        130     9,300      9,300    11,943    260,656   33,678       253,253
Total Unit Cost         94,155    41,998   110,878   164,347   213,866  1,209,836  220,958         811,900
Total unit cost/GDP per                             0.70       1.04       1.35       7.63      1.39
capita (1984)                  0.59       0.26                       0.99                                  5.12
Average unit coet/GDP per
capita in Francophone
Africa (1980)                 n.a.        0.29                       1.43                                  8.04
Average unit cost/GDP per
capita in Anglophone
Africa (1980)                 n.a.        0.18                       0.50                                  9.20
Average unit cost/GDP per
capita in developing
countries (1980)              n.a.        0.14                       0.41                                  3.70
1/ CET - Lover secondary technical school.
CEG - Lover secondary general school.
Lycées - Upper secondary achool.
otii
. _



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-3
Annex 9 of 12
Table 5 - Student/Teacher Ratios by Urban/Rural Distribution, 1984/85
Regions                       Urban               Rural
Cap Vert                                  61                  -
Casamance                                 66                 48
Diourbel                                  60                 37
Fleuve                                    54                 38
Senegal Oriental/Fatick                  56                  31
Sine Saloum                               63                 47
Thies                                     62                 46
Louga                                     58                 40
Total                              61                  44
mm                  mm
Source: MEN/DERP
Table 6 - Student/Teacher, Student/Professional Staff Ratios in
Secondary Education. 1984/85
Number     Nuwber        Number    Student/       Student/
of         of            of       Teacher    Professional
Students   Teachers   Non-Teachers   Ratio       Staff Ratio
tover Secondary *              48,278      1,766          208         27/1         2411
9,926       377          297         26/1         1511
Lover Secondary Technical       4,622        156           93         31/1         19/1
Upper Secondary Ceneral        17,165        923          683         19/1        11|1
Upper Secondary Technical       3,900        237          179         1611         9/1
Teacher Training Schools          610         92          162          7/1          2/1
* Upper line:  separate schools; lover line:  lover secondary integrated with upper secondary.



- 34 -
ANEX 2-3
Annex 10 of 12
Table 7 - Unit Costs by Discipline at the University of Dakar. 1984/85
Number     Number of      Student/
of       Permanent      Faculty         Unit Cost (CFAF '000)
Students    Faculty a/      Ratio       Academic    Subsidy      Total
(1)          (2)           (3)          (4)        (5)         (6)
Law, Economics               3,418       71   (18)       48/1          303        253        566
Medicine, Pharmacology       2,435      171   (41)       14/1          566        253         819
Science                      2,218      125   (44)       18/1          495        253        748
Letters                      2,137      110   (28)       19/1          457        253         710
ENSUT                          434      101   (57)        4/1        2,18         253       2,371
ENS                            537       54   (12)       10/1        1,208        253      1,461
EBAD                           137       16    (2)        9/1        1,930        253       2,183
CESTI                           85       13    (1)        6/1        1,030        253      1,283
IFE                             52       10    (4)        5/1        1,157        253      1,410
Total (Cols. 1 & 2);
average student/faculty
ratio (Col. 3); average
unit cost (Cols. 4-6)   11,453      671  (207)       17/1           557        253        810
-e_        C-    =
a/   Includes French technical assistance.
ENSUT:  Ecole National Supérieure Universitaire de Technologie/Advanced School of Technology
ENS  : Ecole Normale Supérieure/Advanced Teacher Training School
EBAD : Ecole de Bibliothécaires, archivistes et documentalistes/School of Library Science
CESTI:  Centre d'études des Sciences et Techniques de l'Information/Institute of Information
Science
IFE:    Institut Francais pour les Etudiants Etrangers/Prench language Institute for Foreign
Students.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-3
Annex il of 12
Table 8 - Breakdown of Central Government Budget for Higher Education, 1985/86
(CFAF '000)
Transfer
Categories        Personnel    %    Materials    %   Paymente        %       Total       S
Central Services         271,613    3.1    84,324    1.0        ...       ...     355,937    4.1
University of Dakar        ...       ...      ...      ...  3,670,635   42.3   3,670,635   42.3
Campus Services (COUD)    ...        ...       ...    ...    998,000   11.5       998,000   11.5
Fellowships                ...       ...      ...      ...  2,159,083   24.9   2,159,083   24.9
Specialized Training
Schools for Civil
Service ai/             556,964    6.4   272,454    3.1    397,977    4.6   1,227,395   14.1
Transport, contractual
fees, etc.               66,855    0.8      6,440    0.1    199,030    2.2       272,325    3.1
Total           895,432   10.3   363,218    4.2  7,424,725   85.5   8,683,375  100.0
== -    -                    =m -_..._ s
a/   Consists of:
School of Public Administration and Law (ENAM)
Administrator Upgrading Center (CFPA)
School of Applied Economics (ENEA)
Agriculture Technician Training School (ENCR)
National Center for Training and Action (CNFA)
Advanced Teacher Training School (ENS)
School for Assistants and Education Specialists (ENAES)
National Rural Development Institute (INDR)



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 12 of 12
Table 9 - Marginal Rate of Return to Education in Senegal
Private Rate                    Social Rate
Educational Level                               of Return                      of Return
Primary School Diploma
(6th grade)/ no diploma                                 33.7                            23.0
Lower Secondary Diploa
(lOth grade)/ primary school
diploma                                                 11.1                             7.7
Baccalaureate/Lover secondary
school diploma                                          17.3                            12.0
Baccalaureate + 2 years/
Baccalaureate                                           22.4                            11.5
Baccalaureate + 4 years/
Baccalaureate                                           21.3                             8.9
WAPED
March 1986



- 37 -
821'IJXC or SUENCAL
PRIMAi RDUC6TTOU DrVELO3IEN  PEJECI TêIo 
O3IWANTIvE E£NCAiON INDICATONS
Notme    ,1986
CENTRAL
EXVENOTII    EDUCATION                             CoetLhON              IGUNRENT
on EIICATION  RECENSNT         ADO?T               RATE SO               UNIT  MUT  PROGRESIO
010> pu               As PERCET    EXVRNOI?URE   LITERAcE PRISME PRIKMA               PRIMAT  PRIMAI?    RATE RS    8800005*? S&CONDAASY NIoIRU
ASEI  POP.  CAITA  PERaEN  OnP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATRO TO: RATE               SimLO??. ICMOL       NlDERNT  EDCATION  PEIIUf TO  EMRL?.   SIODENTE  ENROLL.
TEAR lutte. (us$)   DEvoIR  Tc  GOVERIIET    PET  sec  ni    (E>              "ATICOECLCI          VER        AS VERCEJI 55031W         "ATIO      PUR        RATIO
<1979> (1979>    EUJCATIO  II  PENOTTIE             (E>        <1976>    (1)         <E)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA         <Z)        (Z>      TRACHÈR       (E>
(1)      <2)        < 3)           (4)           (3)           (6>       <7>       (8>         (9>        (10>          (11)        (12)1   <13>    (14)
AUIRALI             au    14.66    ,7         6.38         14.6         -    -     -      -        1031'      100         21        -              99          73         13       20.90
CANADA         81~~s    23376   ,60      7.7a        18.387       30a7 3483 2387   996        106'      l0c          21        19.9'?        100          92'       la       2260
GERJIJI  P.R.       79    61.2  12.200        4.6           9.9'       -     -     -      996       89'       100'        -         -             100'         94'        -.       12.10'
NEIRERLAIIOS        79    14.0  10 490        7.9           5.1        20   35   25       99b7      96        93          la        13.3           99          82         13       12.40
MW1 ZSALAJ<         80      3.26  6,081b    3.5v           13.4        37   31   28       99b      100        100         24        11.6          100          82         15      23.80"*
SIEDE               79      8.3  12.230       9.0         18.2         31   10   10       996       99'      100          18'       £9,9          100          79'        104*7    36.30'7
sASTEE  APRCA
ROIIInA             83      1.0b    9206    6.0           22.0         41   34   22       40       100         77         32        10.0           40          20        21         1.80
808080             811      4.2      233      2.86'        19.0        63   28   27       23        29'        33         37        20.2           £2           3'        £7        1.00
005010              84      0.4b    345       3.8"        28.0         49   29   22       49        76        40          39        -              43          36        28        0.60
wioJIIN             84      0.4      480      3.0         1 1.9        73   26   ...    10          42        66          40        67.0           40          10         £ 9      0.60
E1£IOPiA            8t    32,86      1406    2.9P         11.1         43   25   20       33        42        30A         63        19.3           93'         14        44        0.45
SUIA                82     17,4b    4206    S.8"ub         20.1b       65   16   1£1    48b        113         38         36        14.4           35          18         26        --
LESOIR              82      1.46    433b    5.3           16.9         38   32   26       533      116'       41          48         9.6           46          2£1       21         1.30
K6DAOASCA           77      8.3      330      4.ou        24.0         53   28   19       30        9468       33         ss         8.0           38          14        23         3.10obY
SALAN               si      6.1b    2306    3.5            11.4        38   14   23       236       62         23         65         5.8           1 2          4         2 1       0.40
MAURMTU8            83      1.06  1.1706      4.3          14.0        46   36    7       80b       93         72         23        13.0          100          50         22        1.00
EVANDA              83      5,96    2706    3.6           27.4         7 1   16   13      376       63         30        4.0        16.0            9           3         16       0.40
SRGe£.1.E8          79      0.6   1,770       3.9         22.4'        348 33810'l                   -                    25        -              -           -         -         -
soALIAu             8£1     4.5      280      1.5         10.5         306  446   66    30b         226       80b         296        9.06          80b         £26       22         1.00
80D81               80     19.26    3806,    3.0          -            66  39  ...        32        31"x      68          34         1,4           44          16         £6       ..
8II LAZI£i          83      0.7b    940b    3.$V6         20.4         31t  34   £35    636         93        50          33        11.0           98          29         £8        3,00
TAIZAjIA            80    18.3       260      5.9          17.7        47   10   16       796       986       87          43        11.0           196,         3        20'        0.50
043110              80     12.6b    3006    -             16.1v        236  376  206    48          54'       6£1         34        -              1 7          3        23        0.60
MRIE                8i    29.86      210b    7.7          26.4         -.   -    20       54'.>     76        23          3         21.0           40          la        28        2.00
ZASIA               80      3,76    $66       4.SP        11.1         48   23   22       446       95        80          48        12.9           19          16        22         1.50
1158610             si      7,76    7006    5.1            19.5        62   32    6       446       90        53          39        20.0           83          £35       23        0).30
RElI                79      3,46    3206    6.3"          33.0         43   21    S    l16          42         30         46        14.0           30          Il        63         1.007
DOMINA              83      6.5      210ob    2.1w        21.7         43   29   28       9         16        23          57        24.3           16           3        24        0.03
C8RIURO             84    10.0       8106     3.1pV                    33 18  28         20         89        45b         30        -              -           23        28        2.70
C.A.R.              79   2.2   280   3.887    20.6'7   -  -  -   --                                 -         -           6547             -                   -         -         0.7087
01RAD               76      4.4      120      2.4bv7      21.7b        -         -    - 15          237       -           77         -     -                    387      21        0.207
OMMT                78      1.3      670      9.07v       27.787                           - -34--                         6b       -              30          -         4367      4.0087
GAlON               77   0.6  3.420   3,767                 8.47       -   -   -               -               -          4667             -             -                £967   2.8047
GAMEA               77      0.6      220      3,3&W         6.56       46   25'   6'   106          4067       90'        2767      44.7'1         40          12bx7    1 7         -
CRam                76    11.3       400      4.07         13.36                         -          71683'    -           2767      -              -           36687    2 1-
00118               79      3.3      890P    4,68P        -            23'  28'  28'   20            34        36         38        20.0&V         8s          1 6       29         7.00'
ivoNT comT          83      9,36b   720       7.3         42.8         31   40    9    33'7         72        79          37        29.0          49           22"M      30         1.88
LiSEEA              80      1.9      520      4.6         19.6         43   23   24    30           si         32         33        20.0           76          22        20        2.90
MAL                 si      7.06     190      4.2'        21.7'        38   2£   Il    Io           20        60          44        15.7           66           I        il         0.90'7
NAURTAIIA           78      1.66     3206    5.5           16.9        33   43   25    j7b          32        60          44        32.0           30           9        25        0.37
SToRE               84      5.2      300      2.8         211.0        40   25   20    14           23         20         36        41.0           37           6        28        0.30
NIGERA              83    93.6b    7606    7,4Y           16.0         -    -    13    36           93         70         36        19.5           47          23        30        2.00
BREGSAL             84      6.4      380      $.06        24.0         466  336  196   28           52        39          46        26.0           19'         16a       24        2.20'
SaImR  LEMN         77      3.4      230      4.06,        £6,06       -     -     -     136        37'       -           35        23.06,         84          158       22        0.60by
TomO                78      2.4      400      6.39"       26.59        30'  28' 21'   18            74        40          3467      38.0           52          32687    4.sb        1.60b7
AM.N,R              la    27 3   2,210        2.7          10.9        43*  3£'  18'   93           8          3b£                  -8738                                         2.0
IAIIANA             79      0.2   2,770       3.7         19.1         3643611           936        99        97          24        -              97          75        19       -
BAI8AVOS            78      0.2   2,680       8,3W?       22.18        43'  3£8  16'   ,6b         £007       99'         277       19.9'         99'          787       207      -
ROLINLA             go      3.4      330      4.1'7       30,38        -    -    -       63         747       -           207       -              -           137       -         12.603'
BRAiT?.             79   116.5   1770         3.8          6.2         31   -    14    76           7387      -           f38Y       4,36,        61'          £387      14*Y    12.626
CINLE               7      10.9   1,80        3.2b7        130         -    -    -       -         119b87    --           36        -              -           53367    2067      11.9067
00105815   80    26,76  ~~1,180      3.3          23.0        35   20   20    816          78         36         32         6.6           -           47        20        l0.02'7
COSTA 1101          80      2.26  1,l1b    8.4            31,£         40   27   33    90           93         77         33         3.3           77          40        27       14.00
0085                78      9.8      -        8.0          11.0        -     -     -     96        îî26'7    go           1867      -              98          71b87     15       19.02b7
oauimoej NE.    80          3.3   1,030       2.9          13.0        39   21   22    68b          80        31          39         3.2           94          30        33       16.00
ECEAIIO             80      8.46  1.110       6.0V        36.7         45   31   16    NI          103        -           36        12.6           86          47        £6       29.00
EL 851A80           77      4.4      640      3,4b7       23.1b7       64    8   27    62           82687    32           39        -.             41          26687    2767       7,9067
OOAIDI6LA           78      6.8   1,010       1.7*7        12.6b       -    -    -       -          69bx7     -           3367      -              69          13687      1967y     3,307
GUEMAU              76   0.8   630   8.16y    13.867   -   -   -   -                                99687   -             3267   -                 -           5968y  -             3.ooby
RAITI               80      3.0b    230       3.4"          7,987      65    9    6    236          30         20         4 1       19.0           62'          4'       27        0.80
HONDURA             78      3.6      520      3,367        14.3b7      62'  13'  19'   60           89687y   30'          41b7      £2,8'          68'         21'7       1 9      8.007
JAMACA              80      2,£    1.110      6.5          11.7        37   4 3   20    90          98         98         40         2.3           95          8 1        22        8.00
NEXIGU              g0    6.5.   1,880        4.7          £7,08       46   39   1 5    92          98         53         44         9.5           86          56         1 7      10.30
NICàARGU            78      2,66    6106      3.06"        14.06       -     -     -     906        8368       24         376       -              -           2668      306      -
PAAMA               78      1,86  1,330b    s,3687        21.867       62'  13'  1 3    826         9367      -           2567      11.6           83'         3067      2767    20.4067
PARACVUA            79      3.0   1.140       1.4"         14.2        42   1 7   20    84          83         32         28         3.jr          76          22        1 2       0.70
PUE                 80     16.6   1,000       3.6          14.3         3   £3   1 5 19    80       83         56         39         9.8           89          39        22        14.407
TRiNDAJI & TON.   77        1.1   3.910       4.867         8.867      48   32   20    95           98         91         30        £0,37          49          62        24       -
0815105             78      2.9   2,500       2.5           9,46       -    --   -       94        10368      -           246       -              -           6446      -         17.8087
VENEZUEA            78    14.4   3,440        3.17         18.96       -     -     -     82         £0668      -          28        -              -           38b68      17       21.107



38-
AIIEX 2-4
co rm      nuconol iDlC^SOs                                                    rose 2- t 2
9ept eor  *. I986
on  1A1T1M0  R1CUWNS         A1LS              RATE 701            USTT COSS P7 ss0    O
eur P8m             AS PsR0U?        p    Tuo ss  3.1111CY PMNARI PEIpNl      P?NuA    PTuNT    R45g 78   ssn  SICOIID RICHSR
u88   POP.  CAPITA  PRSU? Cap TOSAL eUrUL                 TcLOCAS8D To: R45R  110OLL. SOL  8S30S0YS  DUC4noN  PEINAIR  To  RNROLL.  STUDP SS  88L0.
TEAR MLU. (088)   Ds01  sn  CoGSiE              P    os si BI    (Z)    UTIO   CYCLE       PIR       U PROU? S900804*    8410    PRe              RAIno
(1979) (t919)   BWCATION  Ea    lDmT           (11) <I976)   (s)              (>)    TRAoIsR e87/CA rITA       <1)         (s)    TEACAIR    (s)
_ <1l)  <2)       (3)           (4)           (5)         (6)      (7)       (8)       (9)        (30)        (l3)        (32)      (I3>    (34)
USs334            83A il 1cI.O1   o  3106    3.1       7.1       38   40   22      77b      77        62        2$        8.0          65          35       17       4.80
I8NDCSIA          81   150.5b    520      2.1          9.3       70   24    6      32b      98        61        37        11.0         74          27       26        3.70
O184             82    39.3b  1S34b    7.7M          20.8       34   34   31      96       99        98        43        19.0         98          84       le      21.80
MALSIA            84    15.2b  1.870b    6.1          16.7       39V  43' 18'   70b         971       97        26        11.5'        89          72       22       4.00
PA0A N.0.         83      3.04    820     5.4         19.0       40   i7  22       -        60        73'       33'       15.0         35          133      27P       1.00
pulîupplms        79    48.3b    690*    2.8'         14.0       64   36   -       75b      84        6$        31         7.1         89          55       36      23.00
s81311o0          80      2.4   4,420     2.7          6.7       39   40   16      83       92        82        31         8.8         96          35       22       8.00
SOLOX ISL.     82      0.2b    640     6.6PU       19.0b      41   34   20      15       78        80        27        10.5         40          20       l8       2.50
T WID             82    49.0b    8cob    3.4          20.3       s9   14   10      86b      101       68        21         9.3'        44          46       l8       4.00
SOmS ASIA
U*ESB.40188       79    92.3b      90      3.1P       10.1'Y     si   l7   20      22b      637       -         33         5.6         -           14       23        1.43
SBE7RU            80  1.2  80  3.6    11.0    - --   10   32    -                                               -        -             -           -        --   -
INDI0             77   659.6      210     2.91         9.0w      -    -     -      36        79X      -         41        -            -           28'      -        8.30'7
NsrAL             82    1s.ob    350b    1.4         -                -            19        70       -         38        -            -           21       23        3.7n1
P7I4JI          82    87.1b    380b    2.0           7.0       38   20   24      22        50       41        30         5.9         56          23       15        3.00
AN841ISTSSM       77    15.5      -       l.7          3.7       47   19   35      12        33by     69        37b       -            62           8       22bv      1.COY
4A108             79    18.3   1.770      3.8'        12.3       34' 26' 2l'   35           837       45'       37         7.0?        $5'         297      26        3.701
1017?             82    43.3'    6308    4.6'          7.9       3lé  35'  26'    44         75'      8üé       34'        9.8'        83'         43'      19'      37.0o
081801            76      9.3   4.140     2.6S        10.6b       37   26   21     -         97by      -         29b       6.2t        -           79b6     27bY    17.80b'
IRAN              79    36.9      -       5.747       14.387     -     -    -      50       101"Z     -         32'       -            -           44*"     24'      4.90'y
sA1               79    12.6   2 710      4.3'7        6.9'7     -    -    -       -       lo0       -         28       -             -           45'Y     29'      9.3047
113L.8     8l      1      3 b  4.480      6.347       1.8'7      -    -    -       98       93        94        29        --           98          81       14       31.00
JilaM             8l      2.2b  1.420b    4.9'        1n.2       19   44   a8    7ob         57       85        32        15.1  -      -           57       38       8.90
I11ON"            79  2.3                  -          18.688   -  --    -                   96X   -             19    -                -           46'   -    27.80&Y
7D0OCCO           84    21.8b    670b    6.0          22.9       38   43   19      35        578       9        31        15.1         -           134      38       8.90f
01<6.8            82     0.9b s   206    2.5m"        52.78      -      -    -      0?b    7lx        65        2$        -            86          1l       14       .
PORTUGAL          79    9g  6  2 060      3.6         22.2       50   28  il       78       97        20        19'       12.8         88'         45X      17'      8.30x
ROE3TA            78    22.1   2.100      3.9by        6.27      -    --   _       98      106bx       -        23b       -            98          84b6     22b     10.6067
srAIN             76    37.0   4.920      2.1V        16.8y      -    -            - _      94b       -         29b      -             -           67by     -       24.10b6
sTEA              78      8.6   1,170     4.47        10.3       39   25   26      s8       â7by      80        33b      -             68          43b6     21b     12.60
303T3A            79      6.4   1,130     7.O0        19.0       42   39   l8      62b     100'       80        39b       12.8         30          30X      30       6.00
TOUm              83      47.5  1,230     3.3         16.2       $0   22   24      73b     110        77        31         6.0         55          26       il       8.00
TgU  A.R.         80      6.8     420     5 .03       12.0       94    7    7      21b       37       12'       387       67.0         85           3       20        1.10
tUEo   7D.R.      82      2.0b    420b    7.6          9.7       63'  14'   8'    53         61       34        25        22.0'        46          17       20        2.30
_r        ofo0tr?t.                     84              93      70  696 7         81       92        68        95      6s             75          91       88     8s
Raug,s                                  (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-      (12-      (12-       (l7-     (3.4-         (10-        (1-      (8-     (0.03-
10.0)         54.3)  94)   46)  33>    99)       119)     99)        77)       67.0)        100)        84)      48)      29.0)
Quartiles: Upper:                        5.6           21.7     51   36   22    8s          98       80        43        20           87          47       26       33.0
Nattant                       4.0          16.1      43   28   19      53       83       63         35       13            65         26        22       3.7
Doser:                        3.0           11.0     38   21   13     25        60       35         28        9            40         14        19       1.0
Quartile Davistion,                       1.3           3.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   28.0       19.0     22.5       7.0       5.6         23.5        16.5      3.5        S.0
le«at                                    4.4           17.0     46   28   18      S3       76        59        36        16           62          31       21       6.9
SteArd Déviattons                         1.9           8.7     12   10    7      29       27        24        il        13           27          23        7        7.4
Ndlis:                                   4.0           16.0     43   28   19      53       83        61        35        13           65          26       22        3.7
81M3Ls0  F1001o9S1:
-    DA0433 UVVAILABLE                                                 à - D0r03 PRIOR TO 8sse YTU                s - 3I38N8s? O?F 10c01*o30  (301>) ORLY
...  KAGNTTUD8 viL OR N80U1I0U                                         8 - DAruN NO1  RsC9 r rH* RASE TEUA        t - ME0 AU  STAIH c92138 on0lN  LY
t    DATilH QUEO 8tO R                                                 O - c0usr 9ItTQ                            v - PUBLIC  IpR lTrM  ORLY
*    18aLu08 PAR4-TI08 sTuD s                                          S - UT sRR0LU1T RATIO                      X - l1C1UD0 S OV92AC1II STUD8N88
r -    a      t        RAO                Y - U007SC     RQS
SOURgt          Célesu  I sud 2t  Sbrld Bank tAtl  or 8dutetou nsocor ft eld attelons.
Canunu  3 to 146  IbrId 14, Eduotction sCetot issi0ons. Covernltlt sources aud/or t3e Ua«co 0     st8tstitcl tarbook.
Co rative Mdutation Data are useful la tbe  v l8u8tlo@  of vertous eduction syste_e end 884ly7s8  of relative st4grs of oduc*ttonal developsaut betwaae  vàrlsua
cotntrt  . Romever, ou tb1  béie etf t16  présntt date. ctroa-nttonl coup*riaon *bould ha approfcbad vitb tr at caution.  D0t1  pre ated t1 th 6 bv . table bnave
beau collteted larg.ly by Jsak saimsons trou govsmat eourcés; the rtanuder are etaff eetistes or daté ftro  Unesco. Efforts hbav  beau made to standardase
detfiluntions And. utbn lalta, tCo ehbe  tbe aacuracy of ths data.  Ua.erthalea. sucb dta are 4ttil lparfect in several. respecta sud the 8auk te vorkiug to
taprove thé4  progress1ivly on tta ocesabon of lt  opa,attonal votk.  la the uos of th és dat8, the folloving qualificatioa  should be kept tlu endt
(I)    ldotttoon aa datined lu tha table tlclude  *11 aducation sud tratulng. bot. focta  eud con-foraël.
(2)   -Prttry>  éducation roftrs to éducation et h*t   tiret level end  secoudary' aducotion refera to a11 éducation et th4 atcondery lvel regardlon  of t1e
('.8. asortil. teobubtcl. atricultural).
(3)   Utteracy ratte  (col. 6) *re ottan obtsioad frou couutry cuarusés. In »ay eCoutres thoy are ouly approxisationa aud lt la doubtful Cha1t 8y  uitfor
définicton of  litarata  hsa bema folloed coveltaetly.
(4)    Pabitc «psudtture tu i ducatlo  (<cola. 4 sad 5) rtfera to  el capittl sed récurreut  xpeundîtures devoted to educatton  y publlc and qoust-publlc
agèecles.
(5)   '8rollumt ratins  (cola. 7, 12 *84 14) rete  tto aceol year *sd *re the perceatage of elIgtbla childran enrolled full-tisa in t1e appropriate a1tho.ol
public ad private by larot.  Tbey are oftst sabjeet to a vide marglu tf error in the dve loptnl  couatrlea oviu  to variatiou  la the *ccur cy of basic
daté (l.c.. aga-ap.ciftc populatlo  aud aurolnsutat).  garollsaat firurès ftte3utly are hb4gher than the nu ber of atudeutea actelly lu achool.
Ove-qed studunte my b6. luc«ldod tu clhse figurea sud cao lnflata the ratios.



- 39 -                     ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF PROPOSED SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT
POLICIES ON PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATES
1.        The Government of Senegal has declared as a national priority the
achievement of universal primary education by the year 2000. Projections
based on the 1986 estimated grosa enrollment rate of about 49% and the
growth rate of the primary achool-age population at 3%, indicate, howevers
that if the present cost structure and the share of the total recurrent
budget allocated to primary education were substantially unchanged, the
enrollment rate would decline from about 49% to 38% by the year 2000.
2.        To help the Government advance towards achieving universal
primary education within the financial constraints of the economy, the
project includes a number of sectoral adjustment policies. These policies
have been identified partly on the basis of simulations using the Education
Financing Simulation Model (EFDISIMO), which permits estimating the amount
of financial resources that could be freed up through cost-efficiency and
budget reallocation measures and the effect of these primary enrollment
rates. The model projects enrollment rates as a dependent variable of:
(a) budgetary allocations to the education sector and their distribution
among subsectors and their components; and (b) the efficiency of the
primary education subsector, as reflected in the cost per student. The
policies aimed at increasing enrollment rates have been grouped under two
categories: (a) financial measures (slowing down the growth of secondary
and higher education budgets, and direct and indirect subsidies to higher
education); and (b) operational measures (increasing the proportion of
assistant-level teachers with a lover salary scale, redeploying into
classrooms teachers who currently do not teach, and reducing class hours
required by the curriculum while decreasing class size through the
double-shift system).
3.        Simulations show that implementation of an individual policy
measure is insufficient to reduce the enrollment rate decline signifi-
cantly. Table 1 shows that even when a policy (the double-shift system),
which has the largest enrollment impact, is applied individually, it would,
at best, only halt the enrollment decline. To have a marked impact on the
enrollment rates, it is necessary to apply the policy package in total.
Table 2 shows that, with the application of the policy package, the enroll-
ment rate in the year 2000 would be about 12% higher than it would be if
there were no policy intervention. To maximize the impact on enrollment
rates, a combination of the policy package and increased budgetary
resources are needed. Accordingly, under this more optimistic scenario
which assumes that for the next five years the growth of the education
budget remains at 2.3% but then increases to 2.8% for the following five
years and to 3% thereafter, enrollment rates would increase to about 71% by
the year 2000 -- an increase of 65% in both the enrollment rates and the



- 40 -                     ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 6
total number of primary students. Bar Chart l on page 6 of this Annex
shows a comparison of budget amounts, unit costs, total number of students,
and enrollment rates by the year 2000 with and withcuc policy inter-
ventions, using a low-growth (2.3% p.a.) scenarlo. Bar Chart 2 provides
the same comparisons using a higher growth rate.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 6
Table 1 - Results of Simulations on the Individual Impact of Each Adjustmen Policy on
Primary Enrollment Rates (Assumptions Growth of education budget t the same
rate as the Govenment's recurrent budtet -- 2.3 % p.a.-- 1986-20 )
Changes                  Cumulative Potential
in the Primary                   Savings and
Enrollment Rate (S)               Reallocation to
Primary Education
Base         Target             Between 1986 - 2000
Year          Year             CFAF             Me
Policy Neasures                   (1986)        (2000)          million           mil: ion
1. Continuation of Status Quo (Without
Policy Measures)                              49.2          38.1
2. Indivlaal Impact of Policy Measures
(a) Increasing proportion of
instituteurs adjoints recruited
from 43% to 80% as of 1986/87            49.2           39.0          7,193.2            20.0
(b) Redeploying 400 primary teachers
from administrative positions
into classroom teaching, 1986-90         49.2           38.6          7,309.0            20.3
(c) Reducing fellowship budget in
real terms by 8% in 1987; 3%
p.a. in 1988-94; and 1% p.a. in
1995-2000                                 49.2          39.2         11,690.5            32.5
(d) Reducing University of Dakar
Campus Services budget in
real terms by 8% p.a. 1987-94
and 1% p.a. 1995-2000                     49.2          37.7          3,109.9             8.6
(e) Limiting growth rate of central
administration budget from 2.3%
p.a. to 1% p.a. in real terms,
1987-2000                                 49.2          38.5          6,544.3            18.2
(f) Limiting growth rate of
secondary education budget from
2.3% p.a. to 1.5% in real
terms, 1987-2000                         49.2           39.5         10,694.9            29.7
(g) Limiting growth rate of higher
education budget from 2.3% p.a.
to 1% p.a. in real terms,
1987-2000                                49.2           38.7          7,152.2            19.9
(h) Implementing double-shift
teaching in 20% of the
classrooms and providing double-
shift teachers with an extra
compensation of 25% of their
base salaries.                            49,2          40.0          9,788.0            27.2
Total                                                           63,482.0           176.3
3. Total potential savings and reallo-
cation as % ot cumulative budgets
for primary education between
1986-200U                                                                   18.3             18.3



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 6
Table 2 - Results of Simulations on the Cumulative Impact of the Adjustment Policy Package
on Primary Enrollment Rates under Low and High Budgetary Growth Scenarios
Changes
in the primary                                    Unit Costa
Enrollment Rate (%)       Number of Students       (in CPAF '000)
Base     Target      Base   Target        %       Bse  Target
Year      Year       Year    Year    Increase    Year   Year
Policy Measures              (1986)    (2000)      (1986)  (2000) (1986-2000) (1986)  (2000)
1. Assumption: 2.3% p.a. Growth Rate of
ucation ana   vernment Buagets
A. Continuation of Status Quo (Without
Policy Measures):                         49.2      38.1    548,811 666,925      21.5      35.9    40.6
B. Cumulative Impact of Adjustment
Policies:
(a) Increasing proportion of
instituteurs adjoints recruited
from 43% to 80%                      49.2       39.0    548,811 683,498      24.5      35.9    39.5
(b) Combination of (a) above with
redeployment of 400 primary
teachers                             49.6       39.5    548,811 691,998      26.1      35.9    38.8
(c) Combination of (b) above with
reduction of the growth rate of
higher education fellowship
budget in real terms (8% 1987/88;
3% p.a. 1988-94; and 1% p.a.
1995-2000)                           49.2       47.5    548,811  832,132    51.6       35.9    37.3
(d) Combination of (c) above with
reduction in growth rate of
Campus Services budget in real
terms (8% p.a. 1987-94 and 1%
p.a. 1995-2000)                       49.2      47.7   548,811  835,334    52.2        35.9    37.4
(e) Combination of (d) above with
limiting growth rates of central
administration and of higher
education budgets from 2.3% p.a.
to 1% p.a. and of secondary
education from 2.3% p.a. to 1.5%
p.a. 1987-2000                        49.2      48.2    548,811  843,721    53.7       35.9    36.2
(f) Combination of (e) above with
implementation of double-shift
system in 20% of classrooms and
providing double-shift teachers
with an extra compensation of 25%
of their base salaries               49.2       50.0   548,811 876,721      59.7       35.9   35.6
(g) Difference in the year 2000      Without Policies              With Policies
Enrollment Rate                       38.1                         50.0
% increase                            n.a.                         31.2
Number of Students                 666,925                      876,721
% increase                            n.a.                         31.5
Unit Cost (CFAF '000)                40.6                          35.6
% decrease                            n.a.                        -12.3



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 5 of 6
Changes
in the primary                                       Unit Costs
Enrollment Rate (%)          Number of Students        Ln CFAF '000)
Base     Target       Base    Target         %       Base  Target
Year      Year        Year     Year      Increase    Year   Year
Policy Measures               (1986)    (2000)      (1986)    (2000) (1986-2000) (1986)  (2000)
2. Assuimtion: Growth Rate of Education
ana or woverument Budgets at 2.3%
.a. 1986-1990; 2.8  p.a. 1991-1995
3.0% p.a. 1996-2000
A. Continuation of Status Quo
(without Policy Measures)             49.2       42.9    548,811   752,227       37.1      35.9    39.9
B.  Application of policy package          49.2      71.0    548,811 1,245,000    126.8         35.9    32.0
C.  Difference in the year 2000           Without Policies              With Policies
Enrollment rate                        42.9                            71.0
% increase                             n.a.                            65.5
Number of Students                  752,227                       1,245,000
% increase                             n.a.                            65.5
Unit Cost (CFAF '000)                  39.9                            32.0
% decrease                                                            -19.8
WAPED
September 1986



- 44 -                                    ANNEX 2-5
Page 6 of 6
COHPARISON OP CHANGES IN SELECTED INDICATORS
WlTH AND WITHOUT POLICY MEASURES
Education Budget Growth Rate of 2.3% p.a.,             Education Budget Crowth Rate of 2.3% p.a.,
1986-2000                            1986-9Q; 2.8% p.a., 1991-95; 3.0% p.a.,
1996-2000
TOTAL wR»    OF STLDTs                              TOTAL tVUSR OF STUVTS
O 11011111                                          l'ta-11 $1
t    t   t_   t    t   t_   t   a_   ,    1   ,    , tau   I4  tom  t_  iff
N T  R^   '                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENROLLWENT ^E
lm   lm   lm    tff   lm    lm  Ma|1                         1 lm    t2   14  t_ lm9  -|
UNSt COST                                           UNIT COST
bi.-
$
Mach19861                                                M 111j 
* ..in
ro°  ilon
Ion1  11ik#111S 
g_1m z _*>*e |  
WAPE
onc  18



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PR1MARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACUER SALARIES AMD ASSIGUMHHTS
Table 1 - Average Montbly Salaries of Primarv Sobool Teachers by Qualification. 1984
(in CFAF)
Avera8e Salary
In Relation to
Average Salary     Number            Range            GDP per Capita
"Moniteurs"                   86,036            359     ( 79,637 - 102,667)          6.5
"Instititeurs Adjoint         97,288          4,565     ( 89,334 - 124,506)           7.4
"Instititeurs"               123,086          7,916     (108,718 - 180,462)           9.3
Source: Republic of Senegal, Cost and Financinz of Education, Sector Memorandum (6081-SE).
Table 2 - Distribution of Teachers in Primary Education Budget
by Type of Assilgment. 1983/84
"Instititeurs
Assiannent              "Moniteurs"     Adjoint"    "Instititeurs" Others  Total
A. Primary Schools
1. Classroom teachers               151             4,953        4,864        ...   9,968
- Regular teachers                                                              (8,685)
- Substitute teachers                                                           (1,283)
2. Administration
- School directors relieved
of teaching duties              ...              ...          237        ...     237
- Teachers assigned to
administrative tasks at
inspectorates                   34               237          247        240     760
Sub-total                   185             5.190        5,348        240   10.963
B. Secoodarv Schools                    ...              439          432         ...     871
- Classroom teacbers                                                              (584)
- Monitors                                                                        (287)
Total                       185             5,629        5,780        240  11,834
-              -           -;    -.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 2
Table 3 - Percentages Related to Primary Teacher Assignments
1. Regular teachers/primary classroom teachers                                 87%
Regular teachers/total number of primary teachers                           73%
2. Substitute teachers/primary classroom teachers                              13%
Substitute teachers/total number of primary teachers                        11%
3. Teachers assigned to inspectorates/classtoom teachers                        8%
Teachers assigned to inspectorates/total number of primary
teachers                                                                   6%
4. Primary teachers assigned to secondary schools/total number                  7%
of primary teachers
5. Teachers assigned as monitors to secondary schools/primary                   3%
claseroom teachers
6. Teachers assigned to inspectorates and to secondary schools                 11%
as monitors/primary classroom teachers
7. Teachers assigned to inspectorates and to secondary schools                  9%
as monitors/total number of primary teachers
Note: "Primary classroom teachers" indicate those who actually teach. "Primary teachers"
indicate all those who are included in the primary education teacher budget but do not
necessarily teach.
Source: Mission estimates based on DERP/MEN survey (April 1984).
Mareh 1986



- 47 -
AmN1z  2-7
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
OOMPARISON OF ESTIMATED INVESTMENT AUD L1PETIME (25 YEAR8) COST oF PROJECT
CLASSROOMS WTTH TROSE CONSTRUCTED BY PARENTS AND THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ai
(In constant US$)
Life-     Life-
Invest- Replace-  Rehabili-  Cost of   Cost of        tine      tire
ment     ment     tation     Major    Periodic  Cost (Over   Cost
Construction Type         Cost     Cost       Cost     Repairs Maintenance  25 Yoars)   Per ms
1. Temporary Shelters
- construction               150     3,750 b/    ...                   ...          3,900
- equipment                  400    10.000 bi    ...       ...         ...         10.400
Total                   550    13,750        ...                  ...         14,300    238
2. Semi-Definitive Clasarooms
Built Without 'Knov How'
(cement block, tin roof)
- construction             3,500     3,500 c/  3,000 d/    ...         ...         10,000
- equipment                1.700     1700 c/  1.500                    ...          4.500
Total                 5,200     5,200 c/  4,500                   ...         14,500    248
3. Definitive Clasarooms
(cerent block, tin roof)
As most currently
constructed by MNE
- construction            10,000 el    ...        ...    2,000 fi    2,500  /      14,500
- equipment                1.700        ...       ...      340 fl      425 l        2,465
Total                11,700        ...       ...    2,340       2,925         16,965    283
4. Definitive Classrooms
With 'Knov Hmo'
(brick construction)
- construction             6,000 h/    ...        ...      600 i/  1,900  l         7,800
- equipment                1,500                           150 il      300 ll       1,950
Total                 7,500        ...       ...      750       1,500          9,750    162
ai   Capacitys  56 students; square meters:  60.
bl  Replaced 100% every year.
c/   Lifetine 15 years.
d/   Based on rehabilitation atudy.
ei Based on current models using concrete, metal sheets.
f/ 20% of investuent cost.
^i 25% of investment cost (1% per year).
h/ Based on the prototype developed under the Third Education Project.
il   10% of investment cost.
j]   20% of investment cost.
VAPED
March 1986



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION STRATEGY
A.   Introduction
1.        The current proposal for educational reform in Senegal dates back
to 1981 vith the Government's initiative in calling the "Etats Généraux" to
discuss the state of education in the country. The initial work vas
developed and detailed by the "Commission Nationale de Réforme de
l'Education et de la Formation" (CNREF), which submitted its proposals to
the Government in mid-1984.
2.        The major proposals of the CNREF vere grouped around the three
commissions which undertook the bulk of the vork: the first dealt vith
educational philosophy and policies; the second vith the examination of
resources and structures necessary for the education system; and the third
commission dealt vith the personnel involved in the system.
3.        With regard to the philosophy and policies of education, it vas
proposed that the availability of education should be extended to the age
group 3 to 16 with a common content for all during this period. All
specialization or differences in content vould begin after orientation upon
completion of the common core at the end of the current lover secondary
cycle (3rd secondary). As regards content, it vas stressed that education
should be adapted to reflect closely the realities of the nation. It vas
proposed that this could be achieved through the introduction of a
comprehensive polyvalent type of education which vould include: practical
work; the eventual use of national languages as medium of instruction; the
promotion of Arabic as a language in all schools; and the introduction of
religious education as a way to improve the ethical and moral content of
education. It vas suggested that coordination of the management of the
education and training sector should be under a single ministry, that
nevertheless decentralization of the management and resources needed for
education should continue, and that private education should be eliminated.
4.        The proposals of the CNREF vith respect to resources vere less
exhaustive and suggested taking two main directions: first, the creation
of a series of measures which vould allow all parties involved in education
to participate in the implementation of the proposed reform; and second,
the rationalization of resources allocated for education, insofar as the
management of financial resources is concerned. The creation of a national
fund for education vas proposed in order to generate additional resources.
5.        As regards personnel, the CNREF proposed a series of measures
aimed at providing the education system vith high-quality teachers,
motivated and fully avare of the importance and responsibilities attached
to their poste, who vould have passed through adequate pre-service and
in-service training courses staffed by competent teacher trainers. These



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 4
proposals for raising the status of the teaching profession included
propositions to redefine the teaching personnel statutes.
B.   The Reform Proposals
6.        The Government's reaction to the vork of the "Etats Généraux" and
the CNREF vas positive but cautious. Certain reservations were expressed,
points of detail questioned and a general endorsement of the proposals
made. The major reservation vas that, since the CNREF vas unable to
examine the cost implications of its proposals, these would require further
study before substantive change could be expected. The Government's
strategy vas elaborated as one based on an experimental, progressive and
step-by-step approach, vith each step conditioned by the availability of
resources for the subsequent step, and also as a strategy which built on
existing experience and the current situation, rather than trying to create
a system from scratch.
7.        As regards the philosophy and structure of the education system,
the role of the school as a national, democratic and popular institution
reflecting the national heritage and culture vas accepted. The proposed
organigram of the education system vas approved, but the proposed extension
of compulsory schooling vas postponed until the necessary resources become
avaîlable. A target of four years of education for all vith entry at age 7
vas substituted for the CNREF proposal (para 3). The disappearance of the
distinction between general academic secondary education and technical
secondary education proposed by the CNREF was questioned. At the level of
higher education, the Government accepted the reform proposals but
suggested additional vork ln order to integrate work already done by both
the faculty committee and the university committee.
8.        In examining the proposal aimed at modifying the content of
education and certification issues, the Government expressed interest in
the notion of comprehensive education as a means of enhancing the
importance of manual and productive vork at school and adapting the school
to the national and regional situation; however, there appears to be some
confusion over use of the terms "polyvalent, polytechnic, practical and
productive." As regard religious education, it was not retained as a
compulsory examinable subject, but the introduction of civics and moral
values into the curriculum vith examination at all levels vas substituted.
The question of the role and importance of national languages was
approached by the Govermnent with some caution. The long-term final
objective of the use of national languages parallel with French as eventual
languages of instruction vas tentatively approved.  But movement to this
stage was to be through a series of vell-defined experimental phases, each
undertaken under conditions which would maximize the possibility of a
succeassful outcome. The idea of a language of unification among the
national languages vas discussed but not decided upon, but as a first step
the experimental introduction of certain national languages as subjects of
study in primary school was accepted by the Government. It was decided
that Arabic would remain an optional subject at the primary level and its
use at the secondary level would be revised. As regards examinations, the
Goverument rejected the proposal of the CNREF to suppress or eliminate
exams, but expressed willingness to experiment in certain cases for only a
limited period with the entrance exam for lover secondary school.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 4
9.        The proposals of the CNREF concerning both personnel and other
reaources vere subject to the reservation that the full financial
implications of all the proposals had not been thoroughly examined. The
Government concluded that extension of the pre-service training period for
teachers could be done only on a progressive basis as resources become
available. Separation of the teachers' statute from the "Fonction
publique," as vell as cumulative increases in the special indemnities for
teachers, is not possible at present. More efficient use of personnel
through multigrade and double-shift classes was approved but choice of the
precise method vas not made. The Government agreed with the idea of
establishing a national educational fund, but indicated that this could not
be supported by fiscal resources. As regards private education, the
proposal to eliminate this vas not accepted, on the grounds of democratic
choice and the large number of students currently enrolled in private
schools. Finally, the extension of resources to cover the social costs of
education, to expand both boarding and school canteen facilities, vas seen
to be of differing importance depending on the type and level of education
concerned. Nevertheless, the current financial situation limited the
possibility of such an extension for some time to come.
10.       The content of the Educational Reform is summarized below:
Structure: A three-tier structure made up from:
-    Basic education cycle of 13 year's duration -  pre-school from 3
teo 6 years, followed by comprehensive compulsory schooling of 10
year' s duration;
-    Secondary and professional cycle of 3 yearts duration;
-    Higher education and research of varying duration.
Quantitative targets: The full enrollment of the 7-12 age group by
the year 2000, with consideration given to the demand for education at
other levels which would result from this expansion.
Content of education: In order to adapt educational content to
reflect closely the culture, heritage and realities of the Senegalese
situation, three innovations in content vere proposed: (a) the
introduction of national languages into education; (b) the
introduction of a polytechnic orientation to the curriculum through
the integration of productive vork in educational establishments; and
(c) the introduction of moral and religious education in the
curriculum:
11.       A strategy vas adopted which fixes as a minimum target the gross
enrollment ratio of 60% of the 7-12 age group at the end of the 1985-89
Plan period. At the same time, the experimental phase of reform in the
content of the curriculum would be started. Rence the initial task vould
include detailed programmlng and organization of the reform. A further
activity vould be the development of detailed programming and planning of
the experimental phase of the reform, to be followed at a later stage by
the start-up of the initial experimental phase in the introduction of



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 4 of 4
national languages and productive work into selected experimental schools,
with the creation of an evaluation capacity whose task would be the
follow-up, monitoring and evaluation of the experimentation.
WAPED
March 1986



-5A »u3-1
Paeio  8
REPU8LIC OF SENIEGL
PRIMARY EDUCAIOTN DEVELOPENIT PROJECT
SECTRAI ADJUS1II POLICIES
Policy Measures and saiplementation Schedule        Estiasted Financial or Enrollment
impact of Policies, 1987-94
ObJective: Lover unit costs and increase primary achool enrollments
tbrou8h more efficient use of teachers and facilities
1. Recruit candidates into teacher training pro ars    The revised ratio, ccmbined vith
at an "lnstituteur adjoint"/"instituteur" ratio of   policies listed belcw, is expected
80:20 from the 1986/87 achool year onward.          to lead to a 7% reduction in average
Observe this ratio for the recruitment of new       coat per student (corresponding to
teachers in order to eventually increase the        about CFAF .160 billion) and an
current proportion of "instituteurs adjoints"/      increase of 40,000 student years by
"instituteurs" (47:53). Revise pre-service          1994.
training content and duration to ensure quality,
iehile maintaining the present entry-level grade
for "instituteurs adjoints" (para 2.4).
2. Redeploy into classroems 400 primary teachers in     Enrollment of 21,143 additional
administrative poste at inspectorates and secon-     students would be made posaible by
darv achools. Redeploy 200 teachers between SYs      1991 without a corresponding
1986/87-1987188 and 200 between 1988/89-1989/90.     increase of about CFA? .970 billion
Staff all claserooms constructed under the project    in teacher wage bill.
tbrough redeployment (paras 2.4 and 3.13).
3. Introduce double-ahift system in urban and multi-    "nrollments expected to increase by
grade system in rural areas. For Grades 1-4 in       about 20,000, vithout a corre-
overcrowded clasaromas, introduce system whereby     sponding increase of about CFAF .740
one teacher vould teacb tuo shifts and, in class-    billion; investment per new student
rom  vith few students, one teacher vould teach      place reduced by 50%; quality effect
several grades. Teachers would receive 25% of        of reduced class aize to be
their base salary as extra compensation. The         evaluated.
weekly student hours vould be revised, the school
year extended to compensate, and specialized
curricula developed. Iplsment nationwide as of
SY 1989/90 folloving positive experimentation
results (para 2.4 and Annex 3-9). The decree
concerning 25% extra compensation for double-shift
and multigrade teachers to the published by June
1987. The decree regarding the school year to be
published by December 1986.
4. Increase student/teacher ratios in teacher           Total primary teacher training
trainin  collexes frou 7sl to about 15:1 by          budget for 1988/89 to be reduced by
consolidating student body of two colleges prior     15b (CFAF .132 billion equivalent),
to SY 1987/88, and tvo more colleges prior to SY     representing about 3,350 primary
1988/89; and converting the extra facilities for     atudent years.
other uses and redeploying redundant staff.
5. Increase student/teacher ratios and reduce           Net budgetary savings to
operating costs of specialized civil service         be determined as a result
train  sçchools. Complete feasibility study and      of the study.
ii   iientation plan by February 1988. Consolidate
schools per plan as of SY 1988/89.



- 53 -                              ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 8
Objective: Contain education expenditures at eost-primary levels and
reallocate funds thus made available to primary education
while maintain.,g the share of the sector budget within
th, Government's recurrent budget at its SY 1985/86 level
6. Reduce subaidies to higher education by:                By 1994, the fellowship budget would
(a) reducing the fellowship budget in real terms        be reduced by 26% of its 1985/86
from its SY 1985/86 level by 8% in SY 1987/88       level in real terms. The cumulative
and 3% p.a. from SY 1988/89 through 1994/95.        budgets for 1987-94 would be reduced
Apply reduction primarily to overseas               by about CFAF 2.6 billion, repre-
fellowships by enforcing eligibility criteria       senting 81,000 additional primary
in accordance with equity, academic                 student years.
pEtformance and national development consider-
ations. Study on efficiency measures to be
comple d by January 1988 and recommendations
put into effcct (Annex 3-2);
(b) establishing a cost-recovery system in higher       Impact to be determined through
education.  Complete study on student loans         experimentation.
by June 1988. Conduct a small-scale experi-
mentation by making loans to a few third
and fourth year students between SY 1988/89
and 1990/91. Evaluate percentage of loan
recovery between 1991 and 1993; and
(c) reducing indirect subsidies to higher edu-          By 1994, Campus Services budget
cation.  Reduce budget for University of Dakar      would be reduced by 51% of its
Campus Services in real terms from its 1985/86      1985/86 level in real terms.
level by 8% p.a. between SY 1987/88 and             Between 1987-1994, the cumulati"te
1994/95.  For provision of essential services       budget reduction of CFAF 2.4 bil-
vithin the reduced budget, complete study on        lirn, representing 75,000 additional
cost-reduction measures by March 1988,              primary student years, is expected
including privatization of certain services,        to be made available.
cost-recovery methods, and implementation
plan. Carry out plan.
7. Establish ceilings on budgetary growth rates for        Reductions in 1987 through 1994
recurrent expenditures of central administration        cumulative budgets of central
(MEN), secondary and higher education.  Limit           administration (7.7%); secondary
growth of central administration and higher             education (11.4%) and bigher
education (excluding subsidy, Campus Services and       education (7.7%) by 1994, would
specialized school) budgets in real terms from          represent a total of CFAF 6.9
their 1985/86 levels to 1% p.a. and secondary           billion, corresponding to about
education budget to 1.5% p.a. between 1987/88 and       215,000 additional primary student
1993/94. Complete studies/implementation plan on        years.
cost-saving measures in secondary and higher
education, by January 1988, including more
effective teacher utilization, student flows and
internal efficiency. Carry out plan.
8. Cumulative economies realized through the above         A cumulative of about CFAF 14.0
budgetary reallocation and efficiency measures.         billion, representing about 80% of
the primary education budget for
1985/86 or equivalent of about
450,000 additional primary student
years.



CRITRIA FOR POLICY PrXE8s REVIEWS
Progresa Review Criteria for Release of            Progress Review Criteria for Release of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction             Funds for Third Phase of Construction
(175 Classroom, November 1988 - August 1990)        (175 classrooms, November 1990 - August 1992)
Policy/Institution-Building Measures                               June 1988                                          June 1990
I.  Increasing Primary Enrollents Ihrough Lowering Unlt Costs by Nore Efficient lUse of Teachers end Facilities
1.     Increase ratio of "instituteurs adjoints" to        Recruitment of teacher candidates into              Maintenance of nev ratio to be assessed.
"instituteurs" fron 47:53 to 80:20.                 teacher training colleges to have been
8tarted as of the 1986/87 school year.  Joint
review to assess progress.
2.     Improve quality of primary teacher training.        Exchange views vith IDA on the conclusions of    Evaluate progress of the program.
the seminar held in March 1986 on form,
duration and content of teacher training.
Revise teacher training currieula to improve
its quality and rationalize its duratlon and
cost.  Joint review and agreement. Finalize
curricula and issue necessary circulars.                                                            In
3.     Reduce unit coats of teacher training               Increase student/teacher ratios in teacher          Joint reviev of student/teacher ratio in
colleges and specialized schools that train         training colleges from the current 7:1 ta           teacher training colleges following consoli-
civil servants by increasing student/teacher        about 15:1.  Consolidate the student body of        dation.  Review of progress on carrying out
ratios.                                             two colleges prior to SY 1987188 and another    ifplementation plan for speciallzed achools.
two prior to SY 1988/89. Joint review on
progress. Couplete study on specialized
schools by February 1988. Joint review of
recommandations and agreement on
implementation plan.
4.     Redeploy into primary classrooms 400 primary        Redeploy 200 teachers starting in 1986/87           Redeploy remaining 200 teachers starting in
school teachers in administrative posts at          through the 1987t88 school years.                   1988/89 through the 1989/90 school years.
inspectorates and secondary schools.
5.     Increase primary enrollments by introducing         Start two-year experimentation as of the            Train 100 additional teachers during sumser
double-shift and multigrade systems.                1987/88 achool year in 25 rural and 75 urban        1989 for larger-sc;..e iplementation.  Pre- 0
classrooms.  For double-shift, emphasize           pare final report on experbuentation,          *
experimentation vith systeo in Grades 1-4          foeusing especially on quality, access and   '
whereby one teacher would teach two shifts         cost-effects, by April 1990. Prepare and
h0-



Progress Review Criteria for Release of        Progress Review Criteria for Release of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction          PumdB for Thlird Phase of Construction
(175 Classrooms, Noveutber 1988 - Auguat 1990)    (175 classrooms, Novmber 1990 - Auat 1992)
Policy/lnstitution-Building Measures                          June 1988                                       June 1990
per day, and receive about 25% of base salary    Agree on natiomnide implementation plan in
as extra compensation. Revise weekly hours      appropriate classrooms for double-ahift and
for students and extend the achool year        multi8rade syste s.
to compensate. Revise curricula. Train the
trainers and 100 experimental teachers in
1987-88. Develop specialized currieula.
Finalize first report on experimentation ln
April 1988. Joint review. Publish decree on
the extra compensation of 25% of base salary
for double-shift or multigrade teachers by
June 1987; and the decree on the revised
weekly heurs and scbool year by December
1986.
6.    Strengthen capacity for facility planning and    Appoint agreed-upon staff. Develop computer-   Update five-year plan. Review progresas in
maintenance, construction management and         ized system for collection of data by           facility maintenance and budgetary outlays.   n
procurement and designe for durable, loa-cost    inspectorates on statua of physical             Agree on modifications. Prepare and agree
classrooms.                                      infrastructure and constructionJmaintenance     on worlc and staff training progra  for
costs. Analyze implications for school         remainder of project period.
mapping jointly vith Directorate of Planning.
Agree on modifications. Develop systez to
permit planning for rebabilitation,
maintenance, new construction, leasing and
purchasing arrangements and their cost Impli-
cations for a five-year period. Translate
plan into annual programs. Review progress
in above and implementation of staff training
program.
7.    Reduce unit costs of primary achool              Joint review to determine progress in con-      Joint review to assess progress on
construction.                                    struction of 50 experimental clasaroomn  with    construction of 175 regular class-
regard to suitability of design, method,       rooms (second phase) for suitability
materials, level of cosmiunity participation,    of design, materials, level of
time and cost; determine modifications and     coummity participation, time and
plan of action for next phase of                cost and determine modifications and
construction.                                  plan of action for the third phase.
o n



Progress Reviev Criteria for Release of          Progress Revie. Criteria for Releafe of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction           Punds for Dhird Phase of Construction
(115 Classroos, November 1988 - Akugut 1990)     (175 classroms, Novezber 1990 - August 1992)
Policy/Institution-Buildins Neasures                             June 1988                                         June 1990
8.    Reduce direct and indirect subsidies to             (a) Reduce fellowship budget ln real terms by    (a) Joint review of 1988 and 1989 felloshilp
higher education.                                      26% of ita 1985/86 level by 1994; reduce          budgets. Assessment of progress in
by 8% p.a. in SY 1987/88 and 3% p.a. in           impleenting efficiency ceasures Md
SY 1988/89 and 1994/95. Apply reduction          outcomes. Modifications as necessary.
primarily to overseas fellowsbips.
Coeplete study on efficiency measures by
January 1988 and implemcnt recommenda-
tions as dlscussed vith IDA. Joint
review of 1987 and 1988 fellouship
budgets and progress in initiating
efficlency measures as recommended by the
study;
(b) Reduce budget of Campus Services (COUD)      (b) Joint revieu of 1988 and 1989 COUD
of the University of Dakar by 51% of its          budgets. Assesment of progresa In
1985/86 level by 1994; reduce by 8% p.a.          ilplemeting efficiency messures and       Gb
in real terms SY 1987188-1994/95. Com-            outcom"e. Mcdifications as neeessary.
plete study on cost-reduction measures by
Marcb 1988 mad start implememting recoe-
mendations as discussed with IDA; and
(c) Experiment with cost-recovery system in      (c) Experiment vith the system on a sa11
higher education by completing the study          scale by making lomas to a few third and
on etudent loans by June 1988.                    fourth year students betweeu SY 1988189
Joint review of recommendations and               and 1990/91. Joint revie, to ssseas
agreement on details of experilantation.         experimentation.  Evaluate percentage of
loma recovery between 1991 and 1993.
- Ix
sa
ut <j



Progress Review Criteria for Release of           Progress Review Criterla for Relesse of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction            Funds for TIird Phase of Construction
(175 Classrooms, November 1988 - Auguat 1990)      (175 classrooma, November 1990 - August 1992)
Policy/Institution-Building Measures                             Jiune 1988                                        June 1990
9.    Establish ceilings on budgetary growth rates        Limit, in real terms between 1987-94, growth      Joint review of budgetary growtb
of central administration (MEN), secondary         rates of central administration by 1% p.a.;       rates for 1989 and 1990. Assess
and bigher education.                              secondary education by 1.5% p.a.; and bigher      impact on student flous.
education (excluding subsidies and special
schools) by 1% and achieve cumulative reduc-
tions of 7.7%; 11.4S and 7.7%, respectively.
(This scenario assumes that the annual groetb
rate of the Senegalese economy La 2.3% and
the NMU budget is maintained at its 1985/86
level of 23.2% of the Government's recurrent
budget.) Allocate the funds thus made avail-
able to primary education. Complete studies
on efficiency measures on secondary and
higber education by January 1988. Joint
review of above budgets for 1987 and 1988.
II. Contain Education Expenditures at Post-Primary Levels and Reallocate Funds to Primary Education MOile
Maintaining Share of the Sector Budget in the Government's Recurrent Budget at its 1985/86 Level
10.   Ensure linkage between policy objectives and        As part of the structural adjustment progran                          Same
sectoral recurrent and investment budgets.         exercise and in light of teacher needs,
jointly reviev, on an annual basis, recurrent
and investment budgets for education vith
regard to distribution and growth of staff
salaries, recurrent cost implications of new
investments sud subsidies.
III. Improve Educational Planning. Management and Delivery
11.   Strengthen educational planning and coet            Appoint agreed-upon staff.  Extend coverage       Parther staff appointuents. Conduct
control capacity of Directorate of Research        of educational statistics to include              local seminars for regional tnspec-
and Planning.                                      budgetary data and improve methodology for        torate staff on planning snd achool
data gathering.  Publisb annual detatled         mapping.  Publiab detailed statis-
statistice for the 1987/88 achool year by        tics for 1988/89 echol year.                p 1
November 1988 and publish one for each year      Complete studtes on student louas
o' 



Progress Review Criteria for Release of            Progress Reviev Criteria for Release of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction             Funds for Ihird Phase of Construction
(175 Classrooms,                                    (175 classrooms,
November 1988 - August 1990)                       November 1990 - August 1992)
Policy/Institution-Building Measures                               June 1988                                          Jiune 1990
thereafter.  Complete studies on efficiency        and school mapping.  Prepare vork
improvements in secondary and higher educa-        and staff training program for
tion; financing expansion of primary               remainder of project period.  Agree
education; determinants for demand of              on its content.
education in rural areas; plan to consolidate
specialized civil service training schools;
and introducing cost efficiency measures at
University of Dakar Campus Services
(Annex 3-2). Prepare work and staff
training program for next phase.
Agree on its content.
12.    Improve school inspection services.                 Complete study on administrative snd pedago-        Finalize preliminary report on experimenta-
gical functions of regional and departmental       tion by April 1990.  Agree on modifications.
inspectorates snd personnel coefficients by        Prepare nationwide implementation plan and
November 1987.  Joint reviev.  Agree on            train non-experimental inspectorate staff.
number of school/ teacher visita per year;         Issue decree on reorganization, functions,
administrative snd pedagogical functions;          performance criteria and personnel co-
level of autonomy of inspectorates and             efficients of school inspectorates and
relieving assistant inspectors from adminis-       decentralize inspectorates by the 1990/91
trative functions to focus more intensively        achool year.
on pedagogical support as well as revising
appointment criteria for them. Experient
with decentralization in Louga, Diourbel, and
Fatick regions starting in August 1988.
Train experimental inspectorate staff.



Progress Review Criteria for Release of        Progress Review Criteria for Release of
Funds for Second Phase of Construction         Punds for Third Phase of Construction
(175 Classroas,                                 (175 classroomes,
November 1988 - August 1990)                   November 1990 - August 1992)
PolicylInstltution-Building Measures                          June 1988                                       June 1990
13.   Strengthen educational research, experinenta-    Complete study on reorganization and            Joint reviev of progresa on institutional
tion and measurement capability of the           functions of IhEADE. Appoint new Director by   development, staff training, and specific
National Pedagogical Institute (INEADE).         October 1986. Joint review. Agree on           pedagogical activities as agreed upon during
institutional development program and staff    previaus review. Finalize report on double-
nominations. Issue decree, upon consultation    shift, multigrade experimentation and pre-
with IDA and by September 30, 1986,            pare nationvide implementation plan to take
reorganizing structure and revised functions    effect as of the 1989/90 school year. Train
of INIADE with regard to researcb,             teachers. Prepare and agree on vork and
experilmentation and evaluation to ensure      staff training program for remainder of
relevance of education, and appointment of     project period. Further staff appointtents
the Director and key technical/supervisory     as necessary.
staff. Start multigrade, double-shift
experimentation in about 25 rural and 75
urban schools as of the 1987/88 school year.
Train experimental teachers and develop
specialized currieula. Prepare vort and                                                    'O
staff training program for the next phase.
Agree on its content. Joint review of
progress on general curriculum revision,
student assessment tests and teacher up-
grading.
14.   Establish a cost-recovery system for              Jointly assess appropriateness of charging     Review progresa in the fee systen if adopted
textbooks.                                       fees for primary-level textbooks.              during previous review.
15.   Strengthen project coordination capacity of      Joint review of progress in staff developient   Same.
MNE.                                             program, coordination between project
components and monitoring implementation,
adherence to IDA procedures, and project
accounting.
_     °
WAPED
Septeuber, 1986



EEPU«8LIC 0Y SENECAt
PRE14RS EDUCASION DEVELOPNmOT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES FOR THE SECTORAL ADJUSTEII?T PROGRAI
Schedule Of
Ares or Levol/Title                     Objectives                                        Actions                                Responsible Unit                  Iisplementation
EMPMSI(M OP PRRYN EDUCATIOP
1.  Detetminmts of Deamnd for         To define the strategy and cost  -  Interviev parents, teachera snd inspectors;             DEP and its counterparte in    April 1987 - start to devclop
Education in Rural Areas         of expanding rural prinary        -  Study parental choices;                                inspectorstes.                  régional and departuental
education.                        - Determine supply criterie (population density.                                          mcthodology.
enrollvent rates, motivation of population. etc.);                                     Septe3ber 1987 - field
-  Estimate demsnd levels for schooliug snd financing                                     interviews.
noede.                                                                                 Fcbruary 1988 - final report.
2.  F           xinancins Epaesion of Primry   To identify measures to improve   -  Zncrease enrollant vithout sdditioial teachers or   DfEP in collaboration vith  Nsrcb 1987 to Deceam,r 1987 -
Education                        *fficiency of resource               claserooma through nultigrade, double-ahift systems,  IEADE, vhicb vould implésent  identification of efiiciency
allocation and use vithin            redeploymnt of taacbing staff;                         multigrade, double-shift        measures.
primary education and resource    -  Increase enrollent rates through pbydical expansion   experimentation and evaluate   July 1989 - results of imlti-
transférs need.d                     by utilizing savinga Senerated from cfficiency         the reasults.                   grade. double-shift experimaen-
meau   in primary *ducation snd resource tranafers;                                    tation. Developoent of
-  Estimate net eavings from *fficiency measures. nd                                      *trategy snd financins plan by
the amount sud timing of additional fiun  cing needed;                                 February 1990.
- Prepare plan for impleenstins cost-efficiency
measures and resource transfers.
DEVELOPtElT OF SCUOOL LOCATION
PLANNIBG
3.  Preaa tion of School Location   To integrate echool mappins         - Define preciae criteria for expansion in urban and    DERP School Napping Unit in    Janusry 1987 onvard.
Plana                            into the planning process sad        rural ar as based on priorities;                       cooperation vith statistice
expand coverage to urban aross    -  Project cize of school-aje population by district.    and co t and staffinS
as vell as to post-primary           echool, and grade;                                     services, and DCES Physical
levels.                           - Estimate physical facility requiremnts for the next  Yacility ltenagement Division.
5 years bseed on enrollment projections and proposed
grovth targets;
-  Estimate nov intakes into Grade 1 of primry and
Grades 6 snd 10 of eeodary;
- Estimate required nucber of teachers, *chool
administrators and support staff.
SECONDArT EDUCATION
DERP statistic sund cost and
4.  Imrovina the Efficiency of        To idantify areas for coet        -  In public and private secondary education, analyze     staffing services, Technical/  June 1987 to December
Secondarv Ceneral sud            *fficiency and savinge.              grovth patterns. intake levels frou primry into        Vocational Education Unit in    1987.
Technical Education                                                   lover secondary snd from lover secondary into upper   coordination with the
secondary; internal snd external cfficiency, teacher  Directorate of Employment snd
and  dmlinistrative staff utilization, relevant        private employers.
ratios, unit coste;
-  Identify cross for cost savip;                                                                                       a
-  Estimate flove from expsnded prinsry education; .
- Anelyse feasibility sAd efficiency of increasing the
role of private echoola in secondary education;
- Estimate   ount sad timing of net savinga from coot-
officiency secsures snd resources tbet con be fraed;
-  Prepare the policy measures snd the achedule for
their implemoetation.



Schedule of
Area or Level/Title                  ObJectives                                        Actions                                Responuible Unit                  lwpleentation
RICil  EDUCATION
5.  =mprovins Efficieney of Higber   To identify arias for cost         - Analyze structure and functions of hi5ber edueation    DERP Higher Education Planning  Jsausry 1987 to Janmury 1988.
Sueation                         *fficiency snd savinge.              establishments under MER sad otber technicel           Unit in coordination vith the
sinistrite;                                            Directorate of Fellmovoipa.
- Analyse, by discipline, grovth patternas, intake        Directorate of Employment.
levels, external affic!ency, gaographic and aocto-    Directorate of Civil Service,
econocic origin of students, teacher sad aduinis-      and SONUAGè (fci.lity to
trative staff utilisation, relevant ratios, unit       provide =sll-sccl  enterprise
costs. levels of financing by the central and. local  credit tr  uemployed
govermente snd external sources;                       univereity graduâtes).
- Exmine ceauses of lov internal effici ey: adequacy
of pre-university preparation; consistency of pre-
university and university acadeic levels; clase
aitse; affordability of t«tbooks; effect of high
unemployment levels muong greduetes on student
motivation. especially tboee on felloships;
- Analyze direct subsidies (fellowhips and fincacial
aid) in ter   of: amounts. avard criteria, unuber of
overseas fellovships svsrded by discipline snd cou-
parison of tbeir cost vith that for domestic fello-
ships. academic performace of fellosbip recipients;                                                                    t
and adequscy of monitoring by DME. soio-economic                                                                      o.
backsround of aardees;
-  Identify cost-effieiency mechanisme;
- Caleulate amtout sud timing of net savings fron
efficiency measures;
- Prepare policy massures for cost reduction sud
quality inproveunt snd schedule their
implamentation.
6.  Introduction of Coat-             To disaggregate total sad per    - Analyse total and per stsdent costa for mala,            DSP Hipher Education Planning             March 1987 to
Efficiency Keasures at the       *tudent costs; identify cost-        lodging sud transport; disaggreg8te the  by coset of   Unit in cooperation vith COUD             Harch 1988.
Campus Services, University of  reduction/cost-recovery               personnel. materiels, equipmuet, and opersting coste;  sad techuical assistnts
Dakar                            meseures. and outline steps for  -  Identify  sasures to reduce conts, euch as purchacing  (econozist budget analyst).
introduction of a coat-              of consumables directly froo wholesalers; tonitoring
accouating systea.                   eligDbility to benefit frac the services; atram-
lining services asd administrative personnel;
- Idantify essentiel services to be provided by the
University Campus Services sud non-essential, services
that csu be eliuinated or assigned eloeuhere;
-  Explore fesibility of turning sse services over to
private enterprise;
- Estimate sount and tiding of net savinga;
- Prpare inpleuentation for cost reduction and coat
sabrinS.



Schedule of
Area or Level/Title                 Objectives                                        Actions                               Responsible Unit                 Implementation
7.  Plan to Consolidate              To astablish steps and            - Estimate denand by civil service over the next 15      DERP Higher Education Planning           JuDe 1987 to
Specialized Civil Service       timetable to consolidate             years for graduates of the echools;                   Unit in coop ration vith                 February 1988
Training Schoolo                specialized civil service         - Analyze fixed sud variable coste at esch *chool;       management of each *chool,
training echools.                -  Identify achoola vith sufficient commonalities, based  Directorate of Civil Service,
on thetr curricula, academic discipline of teacaing    Public Vs*a Bill and Employee
staff. and couon subjecte;                           Control Unit and consultants.
- Determine appropriate pupil/teacher ratios;
- Calculate monetary coste snd benefits of
consolidation;
- Assees effect of consolidation on quality of teaching
and learniug;
- Estimrte amount and timing of net sevinge;
- Prepare implemeutation plan for consolidation.
8.  Cost Recovery in Iigher          To explore the feassbility and    - Aasaes the eleaments of a *tudent lon systec: amount DERP teame in cooperation vith  Study: April 1988 to July
Education:  Fessibility of a    potential gainî« of a etudent        of loau capital needed, eligibility, interest rete to  the University Rectorate,      1988, Expertmentation:
Student Loan Systea             loan systes in higher                be charged, repayment and collection méchanism, loan   Directorate of Fellovahips,    October 1988 to June 1991.
education.                          recovery period. foras of guarante., estimates of      interested banka, linistry of
default rates, nature of adinistrative uecbanism     Finance's Payroll Division,
needed;                                               end consultants (student Ioan
-  Examine potential effect of a lonn system on student  *pecialiet, financial analyst,
motivation sad choice of discipline;                  lawyer).
-  Exmin  equity effect of the systte sad measures to                                                                   8
ensure that lov-ucomre atudents are not penalized;
-  asse saatudet attitude tovards a lbau ayetm asd
identify measures to senaitize population ad 
*tudente to coet-recovery principle;
- Estimate the amount sud timing of net sainge
- Prepare the iuplementation plan.
SECTOEL PLMIG AND
Sectoral Planning sMd           To determine optii   enrollment  - Throung  application of the Education Yinacg            DUER? vith MDA assistance       Jannary 1987 - to dmanstrate
Finauciug models                growth rates et each level of        Siiulation Eodel, examine the effect of expaded       (specialist in Education        the  nodal and train staff in
education and eatablish             prisary education on atudent flous invo post-pri_ry   Pinancing Simulation Model).   its use. Periodic visite by
budgetary growth ceilings.          snd implications on the sise and nature of emplîyment                                 IDA spcielists.
demand;                                                                              January 1990 - integration of
- Examine the potential effect of coet efficiancy                                       outcaea of all atudies to
measures On grouth rates;                                                            plan the sector *tr-aty.
- Determine the optium levelb of enrollaent growth asd
related budgetary ceilinge;
- Prepare a draft mdiaum-rae r ector strstegy,
including policy measurea to be adopted, conte. sud
financing requiremnts.
suet, 1986                                                                                                                                                                         -



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRENGTRENING THE DIRECTORATE OF STUDIES, HUMAN RESOURCES AND PLANNING
1.        Objective.  The project would assist the Directorate of Studies,
Human Resources and Planning (DERP) to improve its sectoral planning,
budgeting and resource management capacities and to develop appropriate
financing mechanisms for cost-effective expansion of primary education.
2.        Background.  The current imbalances in enrollment rates and
budgetary allocations between levels of education result, to a large
extent, from inadequate planning, which in turn is attributable to three
factors: (a) until recently the Government had not articulated its objec-
tives nor an overall strategy for the education sector ind therefore plan-
ning lacked a central focus; (b) the existence of three ministries for
formal education and training -- each with its own planning directorate and
poor communication between the ministries, together with the absence of a
structure for synthesis and coordination -- has impaired integrated plan-
ning; and (c) staffing of the planning directorates primarily with
inspectors and teachers who have had no formal training in educational
planning, economics or statistics has hampered efficient planning.
3.        In 1985 the Government tackled the first of these problems when
it formulated a broad strategy for the sector, in which the priority objec-
tive is the development of primary education. More recently, it has
addressed the second problem by merging the three ministries into a single
Ministry of National Education and placing their respective planning units
vithin DERP. The remaining issue to be addressed is the strengthening of
the technical and analytical capacity of the newly integrated planning
staff.
4.        Strategy.  In its current role, DERP would be responsible for
ensuring effective implementation of the sectoral adjustment program. It
would also have responsibility for planning sectoral growth strategies, and
developing further measures towards the control of capital and recurrent
costs and cost-recovery. Within the framework of these responsibilities,
DERP would undertake studies aimed at:
(a) Analyzing demographic, qualitative and cost aspects of each sub-
sector in terms of enrollment rates; pupil/teacher ratios, number
of teaching, administrative and support personnel, internal and
external efficiency, unit costs, budgetary allocations, and
patterns of resource use; and identifying measures for cost-
efficiency and savings.
(b) Developing a school locat4o,n planning system by extending
coverage to urban areas and post-primary levels, and by improving
the capacity of the School Mapping Unit to plan the number, type
and geographic distribution of schools at each level vithin the



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 3
framework of sectoral growth targets; and establishing criteria
for physical expansion.
(c) Developing sectoral plans to identify optimum enrollments for
each level of education; regularizing flows into secondary
schools resulting from the expansion of primary schooling; and
identifying corresponding resource requirements.
(d) Developing a cost-control system and financing mechanisms by
establishing an ongoing expenditure review procesa for each
level; introducing cost-efficiency measures and monitoring their
implementation; and identifying areas and amounts of budgetary
reallocations.
5.        In addition, DERP would develop a quantitative data base through
the collection and analysis of sector-wide statistics and publish them
annually. Statistical data would include: enrollment, promotion, repe-
tition and dropout as well as pass rates at the end of each cycle by grade,
sex and milieu (urban or rural); age pyramid by grade and sex; annual
changes in students' cohorts (to measure the effect of quality inputs);
available physical facilities by district; pupil/teacher ratio by grade:
primary schools with double-shift and multigrade classes; number of
teachers, administrators and support staff; and disaggregated budgetary
allocations and expenditures. The first annual educational statistices
would be published for the 1987/88 school year by November 1988.
6.        To improve the quality of field input into the planning process,
DERP would train regional and departmental staff in educational planning,
statistics, and achool mapping.
7.        The specific content and target dates of the studies to be under-
taken by DERP in implementing the sectoral adjustment program are set out in
Annex 3-2.
8.        Means.  The IDA credit would finance office furniture and equip-
ment, including two vehicles; 69 manmonths of specialist services (of which
9 months local) in education economics, planning, school mapping,
statistics, budgetary and financial analysis, and student loan systems; 52
manmonths of fellowships in educational planning, cost and financing, and
statistics; and 7 manmonths of local training in statistics, planning,
school mapping, and computer use. In addition, as part of the study on
cost recovery measures, the credit would finance a small-scale
experimentation with a student loan system.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Organizational Chart of the
DIRECTORATE OF STUDIES, HUMAN RESOURCES
AND PLANNING
DIRECTORATE OF STUDIES,
HUMAN RESOURCES AND ,,_ ... __
Statistics      _ppig             _la E_ cPLANNING                                                Administration
|  Reproduction   _______________R_e                      C                                           Unit
Uni t                                    Director
Finance  Projects             MateriataialMontornglni
PLANNING                                     HUMAN                                          STVDIES               1
DIVISION                            .         EVSIOURE                                      DIVISION              0%
SecretarÎal                                     S ecretarial                    |    Secretarîal
Support                      Support~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Support              :
Education ||School                             Hua r        ternatio'nal                 Education || Survey|
Statistiesl   Mapiping  |                    Resources     Coo |  atUni                   Researchl          Unit
Cost and       Education                   Intructional                                   Docu en-
Finance        Projects                      Materials                                    tation               n 
Unit           Unit                           Unit                                        Unit               8Il



REPUBLIC oP SEMEGAL/LA REPUBLIQR DU SENEGAL
PRINAI EDUCATION DEVELOPMEMT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPERENT DE L'ENSEIGNEINT PRIMAIRE
ORGANZZATIOIAL STRUCTURE AND PROJECT-RELATED FUNCTIONS OF DCESILA STRUCTURE ET LES RESPONSIBILITIES DE LA DCES DAS LE CADRE DU PROJET
ORGAIIZATION TITLEt                                          FPCTIUO/                                           STAFFINCi                    EESPOi4SIBILnI LEVEL/
TITRE ORGANISATION                                            FOltCTIOuS                                        PElSONIEL                    NIVEAU D'INTERVENTION
GENTLALI RE-GIONAL/
CENTRAL       REGIOltAL
t    DIRETORSAE OF SC1DOL CONSTRUCTION AID
EQUIPIENlTfDIRECTION DE LA CONSTRUCTION ET
bE LEQUIPEENT SCOLAIRE (DCES)
a. Direction                                    - Représentation Nattre ouvrage, synthèse, gestion et        I Dlrecteur                              c
programation des ressources himaines et financières
- Tenue comptabilité                                         1 Comptable gestionnaire                 c
2 Aide comptables
2 Secrétaires
b. Division des constructions et des            - Coordination, animation, supervision                       I Chef de Division architecte/            c
Equipements scolaires                                                                                       ingénieur a/
b.1 Bureau des normes et standards des          - Définition et diffusion des normes et standards            I Architecte/lngénieur a/                 c
constructions/mobilierféquipeuent             minima
- Préparation et suivi des bordereaux de prix et coOts                                                c
de revient
b.2 Bureau des études et contrele des           - Etude des programmes et mise au point des                   I Ingénieur a/
constructionsomobilieriéquipe                 dispositions techniques, administratives et                I Architecte                              c b/          R c/
f inancières
- Evaluation permettant le choix des attributaires des       2 Techniciens supérieurs                 c b/           R c/
contrats d'études et de travaux                            I Spécialiste des achats/marché a/
- Gestion des contrats d'études et de travaux                2 Dessinateurs                           c              R ci
- Supervision et contrôle des travaux effectués              3 Secrétaires                            c
directeoent ou par les cellules régionales                 2 Chauffeurs                             c b/
- Relation avec Départements techniques extérieurs                                                    c
- Appui technique à la Division du Patrimoine                                                         c
- Appuis et conseils aux services régionaux en matière
de passation des marchés
c. Division de la Conservation
du Patrimoine
c.1 Bureau de la Conservation du                - Supervision des collectes de données                       I Cbef de Division ingénieur a/           c
patrimoine et de l'entretien                - Gestion du fichier central                                 2 Techniciens supérieurs a/               c
préventif                                   - Examen et approbation des prograes régioniaux de            1 Spécialiste en informatique a/         c              R cl
grosses réparations et réhabilitations                     I Archiviste documntaliste ar
- Programtion des travaux et des budgets nationaux           2 Secrétaires a/
- Etudes et propositions de location, vente, acbat et        I Chauffeur ar                           c
de rentabilisation des ressources pbysiques                                                         c
existantes
- Appui et conseils juridiques aux services régionaux                                                   c



ORGUIZATION TITLE/                                               PUNCTION/                                          STAPFINGI                    RESPONSIBLITT LWELt
TITRE ORGANISATION                                              FONCTIONS                                           PERSONEL                     NIVEA  D'ZNTERvDItOI
CEWTMAL/       REGIOIULI
CENTRAL        REGIONAL
c.2 Cellules régionales de la                     - Collecte des dornnes (avec participation des agents
Conservation du Patrimoine                     de la statistique, de la carte scolaire et des                I Inspecteur technique a/
inspections rigionales et départemantales) concernant        I Adjoint technique a/                                    R
inventaire, état. statut (titre propridtE ou bail            1 Secrétaire a/
location) localisation des biene mobiliers et                I Magasinier
immobiliers                                                  ( I Technicien supdrieur contractuel
- Gestion du fichier rdgional                                    ai necessaire pour travaux
- Etudes des programes régionaux de construction,                exceptionnels) a/                       c bt
equipment, et rehabilitation                                                                                           R
- Informtion et assistance aux directeurs d'ecole,                                                                       R ci
collectivites et communes
- Controle et suivi entretien prdventif
- Supervision des travaux de grosses réparation et
gestion des contrats                                                                                    c b/
- Organisation réparations aleatoires/imprlvisibles
-Appui et conseils juridiques aux couenes et                                                             c b/            R ci
collectivitde
R
a/ Vacancy/position vacante.
b/ For contracta valued over CLAP 20 millio/pour contrats supérieurs a 20 million FCFA.
c/ For contracta valued lesa than CFAF 20 million/pour contrats inférieurs f 20 million FCFA.
WAPED                                                                                                                                                                             t
march 1986



REIPVLIC OF SEEGL
PRIMIT EDUCATION DEVELOPNW  PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF TSE RElHAILITATION PROGRAN (100 CLASSROOKS)l
LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROGRAMME DE REABILITATION *100 SALLES DE CLASSE)
ORGANIZATION/LOCALIZATION                RESPONSIBLE STAFF/
ORGANISATION/LOCALISATION               PERSONNEL RESPONSABLE                            FUNCTIONS/FONCTIONS                                         OUTPUTS/APPORTS
DIRECTION DU PROJET                   Directeur et Administrateur -                                                                  - Visas des contrats
Gestionnaire                         - Gestion du Projet                                       - Demande de remboursement ou de paiement par IDA
- Relation IDA et divers intervenants                    - Rîglements sur comptes spéciaux
- Coordination                                           - Compte rendu exîcution physique et financière
- Centralisation documentation nécessaire pour examen
de la Banque et de l'auditeur
DIRECTION DES CONSTRUCTIONS ET        Directeur et architecte              - Supervision des études et des travaux                   - Passation des contrats de travaux et suivi de
DE L'EQUIPEMIEN  SCOLAIRES            responsable du Projet                   leur exécution et rdglement (pour les montants
supérieurs à 20 million FCFA)                          - Reception des travaux
- Préparation mise en place Budget de contre-partie
CELLULE REGIONALE DE LA               Responsable cellule et/ou            - Lancement des présélections et appels d'offres          - Passation des contrats de travaux et suivi de
CONSERVATION DU PATRIMINE             technicien contractuel/                 et/ou adjudications au niveau r*gional                    leur exicution et *Aglement (pour les montants
(dans cadre structures                volontaire                                                                                       inférieurs A 20 million FCFA)
administratives régionales:                                                - Controle des travaux
Gouverneur, Inspecteur                                                                                                               - Visites chantiers etétablissement des décomptes et
régional, Préfet, sous-prlfet,                                                                                                         suivi des réglements                                      Of
chef d'arrondissement)
EntrePriae/artisanat                  Secteur privé                        - Exécution des contrats                                  - Réalisation et pilotage des travaux
national ou re gional
Bureau d'études                       Consultant                           - Etudes des travaux à réaliser                           - Relevés et constats des travaux à réaliser
- Préparation des documents d'appels d'offres
- Appui ponctuel en cours de réalisation                  - Consultation sur demande de la DCES pour
ddpouillement des offres
Service Technique                     Habitat Urbanisme                    - Assister le mattre de l'ouvrage dans les missions       - Apport en savoir faire et appui technique
qui lui sont confiées                                     si nécessaire notamment au niveau régional
Tests de résistance des matériaux
CEREEQ                                Etablissement Public                 - Laboratoire d'essais et de controle
- Centre expdrimental de Recherches et d'Etudes



DIPLEIENTATION OF THE PREVENTATIVE MAITENANCE SYSTEN/
LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU SYSTEME D'ENTRETIEN PREVENTIF
ORGANIZATION/ILOCALIZATION               RESPONSIBLE STAFF/
ORGANISATION/LOCALISATION               PERSONEL RESPONSABLE                             FUNCTIONSIFONCTIONS                                         OUTPUTS/APPORTS
DIRECTION DU PROJET                   DIRECTEUR et Admainistrateur          - Gestion du Projet                                       - Visas des contrats
gestionnaire                         - Relation IDA et divers intervenants                     - Demande de remboursement ou de paiement pour IDA
- Coordination                                            - Règlement sur comptes spéciaux
- Compte-rendu exécution physique et financière
- Centralisation documentation necessaire pour
examen de la Banque et de l'auditeur
- Suivi des objectifs
Direction des constructions et        Directeur                            - Supervision de la composante
de iéquipement scolaires                                                  - Préparation de la mise en place des Budgets
Division de la Conservation           Chef de Division                     - ELABORATION DU SYSTEME                                  - Participation aux études des consultants et suivi
du Patrimoine                                                                                                                           de la production des guides d'entretien
- PREPARATION DES ACTIVITES PRELININAIRES                 - Organisation de séminaires
- Informer et sensibiliser les utilisateurs              - Utilisation des média (radio. publications locales)
- Préparation des programmes annuels                      - Préparation fiches techniques pour
- Négociation d'un accord avec les Régions                  l'introduction de nouveaux curricula dans les
écoles normales                                         1
- EXECUTION DES ACTIVITES 
- Supervision distribution des guides et trousses à      - Par délégation aux cellules régionales                   8
outils aux 3.500 établissements                        - Tester les résultats
Cellules régionales de la                                                  - Supervision technique et financière des travaux
Conservation du Patrimoine                                                   d'entretien                                             - Controle distribution des trousses à outils
- Controle d'efficacité                                   - Passation des marchés pour achats petits
Responsable cellule                                                                              matériaux
- Suivi phase exécution                                  - Stockage petits matériaux
- Instruction des demandes de petits matériaux
- Controle distribution des petits matériaux
Bureau études                         Consultant                           - Elaboration du système
- Etudes des mecanismes
- Développement des fiches d'inventaires et des
questionnaires
- Préparation du guide d'entretien
WAPED
March 1986
NbI



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-6
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UNIT (M2) CAPITAL COSTS OF PROJECT CLASSROOMS COMPARED WITH
THOSE IN OTHER PROJECTS FINANCED WITH BANK GROUP SUPPORT
Cost per m2
at date of
Appraisal         Co0t per m2
Appraisal        (1985) a/      in 1986 Prices e/
Region/Country                 Date              (US$)             (US$)
East Africa
Ethiopia                         1984          125-150              137-165
burundi                          1984              180                  223
Botswana                         1984              190                  246
Somalia                          1980              250                  222
Latin America
Peru                             1983         167-225 b/            158-211 b/
West Africa c/
Central African Republîc         1983              140                  158
Sierra Leone                     1983              128                  120
Burkina                          1984               98                  154
Senegal III (prototypes)         1985              108                  155
Senegal IV (proposed project)  1985                106                  115
East Asia and Pacific
Papua New Guinea                 1984         250-300               220-265
South Asia
Bangladesh                       1985     55 d/ - 100 b/              50-90
a/   Gross area.
b/   In urban area.
c/   US$1 - CFAF 385.
d/   In rural area.
e/   US$1 - CFAF 360.
WAPED
March 1986



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SITE SELECTION CRITERIA AND DESCRIPTION OF CONSTRUCTION
TECHNOLOGY AND ACTIVITIES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL BUILDING
Site Selectïon Criteria
1.        Rehabilitation of 100 and construction of 400 classrooms would be
implemented in three regions: Diourbel, Louga and Fatick. The selection
of these regions has been based on: (a) geogr.iphic congruity with respect
to cost-efficiency and facilitating supervision; (b) low enrollment ratios;
and (c) proven demand for primary schooling. The minimum number of class-
rooms to be constructed per site would be two. The attached Table 1
provides the enrollment ratios, physical statue of achool facilities, and
number of sites identified for extension and new construction in each of
the three regions. Table 2 shows the general criteria applied in identi-
fying the sites. Of the 400 classrooms to be constructed, 75% would be
located in rural areas. About 294 of the 400 classrooms to be constructed
vould be three-classroom clusters and the remaining 106 would be two-
classroom clusters.
Construction Program
2.        The program would be implemented in three separate phases, as
followis:
(a)  Phase I (Construction of 50 experimental classrooms).  To develop
the technical and managerial basis for construction of classrooms
on a larger scale, the experimental phase would include:
(i) a survey of existing construction designs and methods in
local communities;
(ii) an evaluation of typical designs used during the last
decade;
(iii) preparation of standardized designs and construction methods
based on (ii) above;
(iv) preparation of a construction guide and all standard bid
documents providing the necessary details;
(v)  site surveys and soil testing, where necessary;
(vi) training of site supervisors, craftsmen and masons, plus the
provision of appropriate equipment;
(vii) mobilization of community resources (estimated at 27% of the
investment cost); and



- 72 -                     ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 8
(viii) development of DCES capacity to plan and manage decentra-
lized construction.
(b) Phases II and III (construction of 175 clasarooms during each
phase). Prior to proceding with the next phase, DCES would
evaluate the experience of the previous phase in terms of:
(1) design suitability for replication; (ii) cost; (iii) time-
liness of completion; (iv) level of community input; and
(v) implementation problems. Evaluation of results would be
reviewed jointly with IDA, and appropriate modifications would be
made.
3.        Classrooms would be constructed with stabilized earth brick and
fired brick, since clay is readily available at all project sites.
Construction Technology
4.        T e Government decided during the Third Education Project
(Cr. 908-SE, to use the intermediate technology of fired brick and/or
ram-pressed cement-earth brick construction as an alternative to conven-
tional construction methods in order to: (a) reduce high unit costs
associated with new construction and with repair and maintenance of
existing schools; (b) minimize difficulties in transport of materials to
remote areas; (c) expand community-implemented construction programs;
(d) reduce capital input by using labor-intensive construction methods (64%
of total cost) to cushion against cost increases in imported materials;
(e) provide facilities that are relatively more heat resistant; and
(f) develop construction technology and services at the regional level to
reduce dependence on Dakar and on expatriate technical assistance.
5.        Within these objectives, 86 classrooms using pressed and fired
brick and an arch/vault design vere constructed in the Kolda Region.
Evaluation
6.        The particular technology described above offers several economic
and social advantages:
(a) Savings in costs and foreign exchange. The use of brick would
reduce costs significantly, given that it can be manufactured
locally for about USé6 versus purchase of cement block for USi58
(see table on page 7). Since the bulk of the construction
materials is based on selected clay/laterîte soils as close to
the building site as possible, transport coset and delays due to
road conditions are significantly reduced. The estimated foreign
exchange component of this technology (about 28%) compares with
52% for alternative construction forme. Construction base costs
of US$106/m2 are estimated at about 60% of comparable alter-
natives, and in remote areas this cost advantage is expected to
be even greater.
(b) Development of construction skills. Based on previous experi-
ence, teaus of brick-imakers and masons attain acceptable levels
of construction skills and productivity vithin a two-week period



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 8
under the supervision of a qualified foreman. An important bene-
fit of the construction program would be income generation for
the communities and development of local artisans' construction
skills to enable them to eventually become omall-scale rural
contractors. In al., a total of 74 "construction teams" con-
sisting of 522 masons, 348 brick-makers, and 5,220 laborers vould
be employed at construction sites and given on-the-job training.
Tt is expected that the project would provide the basis for
development of construction teams that vould be able to meet the
communities' construction needs.
(c) Employment and income generation. Overall, the construction
program is expected to provide about 12,880 manmonths of employ-
ment to communities where the program vould be implemented. At
the utilization rate per classroom site of 10 local laborers, of
which five would be paid vith project funds and five contributed
gratis by the community, and the prevailing vage rate of CFAF
1,400/day (US$3.9), the income generated for the community from
wage receipts alone would be about CFAP 670,000 (US$1,860) per
classroom constructed.
(d) Adaptability of buildings to the local climate. The high thermal
mass of construction tempers the high daytime temperatures and
of fers students the possibility of relative interior comfort
vithout resort to mecharical ventilation or cooling.
Nethodology for Organîzing Community-Implemented Construction
Step 1: Information (1 day)
7.        The villages targeted for s<hool construction vould be visited
between February and June during project implementatior by a team composed
of the regional and departmental inspectors, the technical inspector, and a
Governument representative. l/ This team would meet with the village chief,
his adviser, and the village notables to explain the purpose of the visit,
provide an overview of the proposed activity and the responsibilities of
all parties involved, and answer immediate questions. A simiple brochure
outlining the project vould be left with the village.
Step 2: Village Deliberation (2 weeks)
8.        The village chief could call an assembly of the population,
including the parents' association if there is one, to elicit ideas and
questions from the community and to list the priorities as seen by the
villagers. For recording purposes, the village would be encouraged to
involve a notable who is literate.
l/  District administrator/Sous-prefet/chef d'arrondissement.



- 74 -                       ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 8
Step 3: Second Visit (1 day)
9.        Approximately 4 to 6 weeks after the initial visit, the same
group would pay a second visit to the village for more in-depth discussions
vith the villagers, explaining technical details, showing standardized
design samples, the long-term implications of the program, the financial
participation expected, and the mutual responsibilities of all parties
concerned. Village concerns and questions would be addressed first. If
the village continues to manifest interest in a village school, the idea of
a contract would be introduced.
Step 4: Village Commitment
10.       If the village has decided to participate in the program, it will
have chosen an individual, a group of individuals or a committee to repre-
sent the village in negotiations with the regional and project authorities.
The village would also have devised a means of raising the funds required
(not less than 27% of total cost) before construction can commence. The
technical inspector or the technician locally assigned to the regional
program would be responsible to register: (a) the names of the village
representatives; (b) the amount of village contribution collected and
evaluated on the basis of collected funds, laborers and materials; (c) the
names and capacity of eventual skills/masons; (d) the number of laborers
available; (e) the description of the proposed site including water avail-
ability; and (f) the type and quantity of clay/laterite/sand/gravel avail-
able in a close radius. A contract stipulating conditions and responsi-
bilities of each party would be concluded between the designated repre-
sentative of the project, the Government representative, and the village.
Step 5
il.       Only after all preliminary steps have been completed would the
contractor and his equipment/materials and construction materials arrive at
the village. It would require four to six months to complete construction
of a three-classroom school.



Table 1 - Enrollment Ratios, Physical Status of School Facilities and Number of Sites Identified for Extension and New Construction in the Three Project Regions
Cross Enrollment      No. of Classrooms             No. of         No. of Non-Functional        Total NNmber of       2 of Non-Functional    ldentified for  fxtension anSl    No
Regional/      Ratios, 1984/85(Z)    in Poor Condition    Temporar  Shelters              Classrooms               Classrooms               Classrooms           Construction Under the Project
Department    Total  Urban  Rural  Total  Urban  Rural   Total  Urban  1,ural  Total   Urban   Rural  Total   Urban   Rural   Total  Urban  Rural                 Total        Urban     Rural
Senegal         54      87     33    707    333        374 1,186    361    825    1,893   694    1,199   8,685   4,469   4,216   22%    16%    28%                 Not          Not         Not
Applicable Applicable Applicable
Diourbel                               21       5        16    49      40      9        70    45        25      330      165     165   21%    27%    15%    123               29          94
Bambey         23    116      15       8       0        8      8       5      3                        il                        60                   182
Diourbel       43      74     20      10       4        6    34      31       3                         9                        68                   13%
Mbacke         20      59      9       3       1        2      7       4      3                         S                        37                   14%
Fatick                                 53      il       42    93       19     74       146    30       116      584      128     456   25X    23%    25%    117               11         106
Fatick         57    153      50      34      6        28    53       10     43                        71                       223                   19%
Foundiougne   42    136       50       8      0         8    20        1     19                        27                       121                   22%
Cossas         27     62      22      il      5         6    20       8      12                        18                       112                   162
Louga                                  43       4       39    54       Il     43        97    15        82      402      153     249   24%    10%    33%       96              8          88
Kebesser       19    103      23      Il       0       il    14        0     14                        25                        76                   332
Linguere       38     90      26      13       1       12    27        3     25                        36                       103                   352
Louga          26     86      10      19      3        16    13       8       5                        21                        70                   30%
Total                                                                                                                                                    336(100%)      48(14%)   288(86%)
0J_
0



-76 -                          ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 8
Table 2 - Criterla for Site Selectioen the ibre. ProJect Regc_i
Criterla            R     l      Otm     2 clase)  Q<nl. 3 dlgue)
(a)  lnuun Pqpuatim
1,500 perse - hndividul        Not
village, or village         Aplible              X                   X
8uupi  wltbln 3 l'm radis
<b) Motvati o0f PmAat/
dIaEd for sclol
- lercentop of clasroe
cncmtructed by pars           X                X                 n.a.
- Pupi/cds rtio wtdn
2-4, 4-7, and aire th
SEa                           X                X                   X
- suber of students and
dlstaoe tbey travel to
ckDest ach8o                                   X                   X
- ar   emolhen ratio
vitbln the Intake ares
<-5 klm radtus)                                X                   X
(c) Procd4ty 0f exsltng
odhwl                          n.a.            n.a.                  X
(d) PidsthM      lnrasicture:
presmnoe of a oel1,
dl~wr,   lao,
ralltOEd sta8ioe, etc.         na.             na.                   X



BASE COST OF FIRED BRICK PRODUCTIONI
COUT DE BASE DE PRODUCTION DE BRIQUES CU1IES
To Produce 12,000 Bricks/                 units/       Quantities/      Unit Price/          Cost|            F.E./           Local/
Pour Produire 12,000 Briques              Unites        Quantites      Prix Unitaire         Cout            Devises          Loeal
in '000 CFAF      in '000 CFAF     in '000 CFAF     in '000 CFAF
Digging/Extraction argile                 R.J. a/          25               1.4              35                               35
Mixins/Malaxage humidification            H.J.             15               1.4              21                               21
MoldingtFaçonnage                         H.J.             45               1.6              63                               63
Firing/Cuisson                            H.J.             25               1.6              40                               40
Cutting of Wood/Coupe bois                R.J.             10               1.4              14                               14
Transportation of Wood/Transport bois     1.J.              2               9.4 _/           18.8             7.52            11.28
Supervision/Encadrement                                     5                 8              40                               40
Total Salaries/Total Salaires                        127                               231.8             7.52           224.28
Depreciatioo of Firing Ovenl
Amortissement Pour                          %             10               400              40                               40
Depreciation of Equipment/
Amortissement Equipement                    %             10               270              27               21.6             5.4
Total                              12,000          127 R.J.           .025             298.8            29.12           269.68
Briques                                                77%
% F.E./Devises                                                                                                 10i
% LabortMO. 
a   Manday/Homejour.                                                                                                                       C
bt Includes rent of a vehicle/compris location vehicule.



llPLEMNTATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION PROGRAN (400 CLASSROONS)/
LA MISE EN OEUVRE DE LA PROGRAIME DE CONSTRUCTION (400 SALLES DE CLASSE)
ORGANIZATION/LOCALIZATION                 RESPONSIBLE STAFF/
ORGANISATION/LOCALISATION                PERSONNEL 2ESPONSABLE                            FUNCTIONS/FONCTIONS                                          OrTPUTSIAPPORTS
Direction du Projet                    Directeur et Administrateur           - Gestion du Projet                                       - Visas des contrats
Gestionnaire                          - Relation IDA et divers intervenants                     - Demande -emboursements ou de paiements par IDA
- Coordination                                            - Rlglements sur comptes spéciaux
- Compte rendu exécution physique et financière
- Centralisation documentation nécessaire pour
examen de la Banque et de l'auditeur
- Suivi objectifs
Direction des Constructions et         Directeur et Architecte               - Développer les stratégies de construction               -Convenir des normes et standards minima
del'Equipement scolaires               responsable du projet                 - Promouvoir, informer et faciliter                       - Procurer les guides
- Convenir des normes et standards                        - Passation des contrats de fourniture de matériaux
- Superviser les études et la mise en oeuvre des            extérieurs à la région pour les montants estimés
travaux                                                   supérieurs à 20 millions FCFA et suivi de leur
- Préparation et mise en place du Budget de                 exécution et réglement.
contrepartie
Cellule régionale de la con-           Responsable cellule et/ou             - Mise au point protocole d'accord fixant les             - Préparation protocole d'accord avec les
servation du Patrimoine (dans          technicien contractuel ou               responsabilités des collectivités locales                 collectivité et/ou les comunes
cadre structures administratives       volontaire (ONO)                        et/ou des communes                                      - Passation des contrats (inférieurs à 20 millions
riégionales: Gouverneur, inspecteur                                         - Lancement des présélections et appels d'offres             FCFA) avec les entrepreneurs/tacherons/
régional, Préfet, Sous-préfet.                                                 et/ou adjudications                                       fournisseurs et transporteurs
Chef d'arrondissement)                                                       - Contr8le et gestion des contrats                        - Suivi de l'exécution et du réglement des contrats
- Reception des travaux                                     inférieurs à 20 million FCFA
Collectivitàs/comunes/
Association perents d'Bllves           C-jmité designé                       - Décision de construire                                  - Signature protocole accord avec les institutions        a
- Négociation du protocole d'accord fixant les              régionales
dispositions techniques. administratives et             - Apport 100% main d'oeuvre non spécialisée
financières                                             - Apport aggrégats disponibles sur place
- Gestion et suivi del'apport de la collectivité          - Gardiennage et stockage de matériaux
- Reception des travaux                                   - Contribution financière
Entreprise/artisanat
Secteur privé                        - Encadrement de la main d'oeuvre                          - Installation de chantier, pilotage, mise en
- Formation de la main - d'oeuvre                           oeuvre et gestion des stocks et du personnel
- Appui logistique                                        - Moyen de transport
- Fabricati n des menuiseries
Transporteurs
Secteur privé                        - Transport ai pas effectuE par entreprise                 - Livraison divers matêriaux/matériels
Bureau d'études spécialisé
Concultant(s)                         - Appusi ponctuel à la DCES                               - Dossier de mise en oeuvre
- Préparation du guide à la construction
- Evaluations. recommandations et modifications du
dossier au cours de la réalisation aux différentes
étapes ai nécessaire notamment au niveau régional
Services techniques
Direction de l'habitat                - Assister le mattre de l'ouvrage dans les missions       - Apport en savoir faire et appui technique
et de l'Urbanisme                       qui lui sont confiées
Centre Expdrimlental de                E l e           p
Recherches et d'Etudes                Etablissement public                 - Laboratoire d'essais et de controle                      - Testa de résistance des matériaux
- Etudes de sols
-Reconnaissance des carrières                     oe
-Controle des méthodes de mlse en oeuvre        oe
WAPED
March 1986



- 79 -                     ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT COORDINATION
1.        In support of the Government's institution building objective,
the proposed project would provide assistance to the MEN to develop its
capacity to coordinate and monitor the project, the individual components
of which would be implemented by the concerned units of the MEN. The
Project Unit would be attached to the office of the Secretary General of
the MEN and 1eaded by a full-time Director, supported by a staff comprised
of an administrator, educational planner, accountant and procurement
specialist, and other appropriate support staff, and a consulting
architect.
2.        With responsibility for overall supervision and guidance during
project implementation, the Project Director would oversee the coordination
of project activities, including all liaison with the different units of
the MEN, other ministries and government services concerned with the
project, and with IDA and supervise the day-to-day administration of the
Project Unit.
3.        The specific functions of the Project Unit in its daily
operations include:
(a) Coordinating all aspects of project implementation with the
relevant government entities, and ensuring that the coordinators
for each component carry out their functions effectively;
(b) Arranging for the procurement of civil works, furniture and
equipment -- including preparing or helping to prepare bid
documents, analysis of bids, and recommendations for the avard of
contracts -- and ensuring that contracta are awarded in accord-
ance with IDA's guidelines;
(c) Ensuring that the goods and supplies procured under the project
are delivered to their destinations and are recorded in the
central asset register;
(d) Arranging for the recruitment of specialists, and administezing
the technical assistance agreements and fellowship programs;
(e) Monitorîng and controlling timely completion and costs, and
ensuring the timely and satisfactory flow of funds to the project
components;
(f) Maintaining project accounts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;
(g) Preparing disbursement applications for withdravals from the IDA
credit;



-80 -                         ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 2
(h)  Ensuring timely payment by the Government of its counterpart
funds for the project;
(1)  Providing assistance in or elaborating civil works and archi-
tectural plans, and ensuring regular inspection and on-site
supervision of the civil works program;
(j)  Keeping records, including financial records pertaining to the
carrying out of the project, and preparing progress and related
reports for subtuission to IDA on a regular basis; and
(k)  Arranging for preparation of future projecte.
4.        The organigram of the Project Unit is presented below.
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
SECRETARY GENERAL OF TUE
NIRISTRT OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIRECTOR L
e__  PEDU;OGCAL   __ PROCUREMNT   _        ACCING   ->  ARcH,TEcTm
r   COORDINATION                                         |               |
| | C"SDINATté FOR g                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C«aDLIWATR FOR 
HU DF SES,UC      I.S.NE.A.D.E.  THE lupCTRT                   AN  CaSSRO E,
COKPOKENT                                        COKPONENT~~~~~~~ccroEN
WAPED
March 1986



- 81 -                     ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRINARY EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
EXPERIMENTATION WITH DOUBLE-SHIFT AND MULTIGRADE SYSTENS
Background
1.        The decline in the achievement rates in the primary completion
exam from 59% in 1966 to 42% in 1983 and the high repetition rate ln
Grade 6 (34%) are partly attributable to overcrowded classes. In 1983/84,
in the urban areas 27% of the classrooms (1,666) had between 70 and 120
students per classroom. To alleviate this problem, MEN has been experi-
menting since 1982 with a double-shift system based on tvo cohorts, tvo
teachers and one classroom of about 60 students each.  Some subjects are
taught inside the classroom and others outside in the courtyard; since the
latter method proved non-effective, iuainly because of inclement veather,
many classes svitched to half-days. Evaluation of the experimentation vith
this form of double-shift system in 61 classrooms (mostly primary Grades 1
and 2) indicated that preparation for introducing it vas inadequate, for
the following reasons:
(a) Parents vere not informed and sensitized to the nev system; they
reacted negatively since it disrupted their regular achedules;
(b)  Choice of the classrooms vas left to the primary education
iuspectors vithout any precise criteria for selection; and
(c) Teachers involved vere not provided vith training and materials
for double-shift teaching, and they received little or no super-
vision aftervards in the majority of the schools.
Nevertheless, the results of student performance in the classrooms experi-
menting vith double-shift system, compared to the results in regular class-
rooms, vas positive; student scores in tested areas (reading, writing,
math) vere generally higher. Hence, it can be concluded that reduction of
the teaching time did not have adverse consequences on student learning
levels, perhaps due in part to the lover student/teacher ratio.
2.        In rural areas, the problem is reversed.  Student/teacher ratios
are unacceptably lov, leading to low enrollment rates, and high unit costs
due to the inefficient use of teachers and physical facilities. In
1983-84, 8% (350) of rural classrooms had less than 20 students each.
Also, most of the rural schools are incomplete: in 1983/84, out of 1,993
rural schools, 71% vere incomplete (476 vith one grade, 327 vith tvo
grades, and 366 with three grades). Consequently, lutake into Grade 1 is
doue on an irregular basis, once every tvo or three years. To address this
problem, ln 1982 NEN began experimenting with a multigrade system of two
grades, one teacher and one classroom. As in the case of the double-shift
system, experimentation with multigrade suffered from inadequate prepa-



- 82 -                    ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 4
ration in that the teachers, lacking information, training and materials,
were unable to organize their teaching.
Objectives
3.        The primary objective is to support Government efforts to imple-
ment the multigrade system in appropriate rural classrooms and the double-
shift system in Grades 1-4 in overcrowded urban classrooms on a nationvide
basis, in order to:
(a) increase access to education, and in the rural areas enable
regular intake into Grade 1;
(b) facilitate the teaching and learning process by eliminating over-
crowded classes; and
(c) improve the efficiency of teacher and classroom utilization,
thereby reducing unit costs.
Strategy
4.        The program would be implemented in two phases:  (a) experi-
mentation over a two-year period (1987/88-1988/89); and (b) large-scale
implementation in appropriate classes starting in the 1989-90 school year.
5.        Phase I.  INEADE would have the lead responsibility for imple-
menting Phase I activities.  It would set up a team of five persons,
composed of two representatives from the Teacher Training Division of
INEADE, one from DERP, a senior instructor from a teacher training college,
and one departmental inspector. Depending on the nature of the activity,
the team would be assisted by local or foreign specialists in curriculum
development and timetabling, teacher training, experimental pedagogy,
evaluation and measurement (all from INEADE), and an economist (DERP).
Phase I activities would consist of the following:
(a) Development of methodology and experimentation criteria. The
team would examine the curricula and the extension of the school
year to compensate for the reduced weekly hours under the double-
shift system; identify the optimum class sizes for both the
double-shift and multigrade systems; and select the experimental
classrooms (about 25 rural and 75 urban) from a stratified
simple. (The statistics and school mapping services of DERP
would help identify these classrooms.)
(b)  Development of evaluation criteria.  The team would develop a
monitoring and evaluation system to include criteria for
assessing teacher performance, student achievement, and other
indicators such as student/teacher contact hours, weekly teacher
preparation time, use of textbooks and teaching aids, and
pedagogical support from inspectors. For comparison purposes, a
control group would also be selected. The team would produce an
annual evaluation report and present recommendations. These
reports would be reviewed with IDA and necessary modifications
would be made in the program for the following school year.



- 83 -                     ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 4
(c)  Sensitizing program.  The team would continue with the "awareness
campaign" already started to sensitize parents and teachers to
the need for implementing these systems.
(d) Revision of curriculum and development of appropriate pedagogical
methods. With input from the curriculum development section of
INEADE, the team would adapt the curriculum and prepare a set of
modified timetables that can be used in urban and rural schools
participating in double-shift or multigrade experimentation. In
addition, it would prepare teacher guides which provide practical
techniques to facilitate the teaching process.
(e) Teacher training. As in the case of the experimental classrooms,
teachers would be selected from a stratified sample. They would
undergo a seven-day initial training prior to the start of
experimentation and a five-day follow-up training during the
second year of experimentation.
'f) Review of experimentation results. The team would produce its
final report on the experimentation by April 1989. The report
would recommend the criteria fcr selection of multigrade and
double-shift classes and the appropriate double-shift models.
The report would be reviewed jointly with IDA and the program for
nationwide implementation prepared.
6.        Phase II.
(a) Teacher training. During 1989, 100 teachers and headmasters
would be trained in the multigrade and double-shift teaching
methods. The same program would be incorporated into the pre-
service training curriculum at the teacher training colleges.
(b) Implementation of multigrade and double-shift systems in
appropriate schools nationwide. Starting in the 1989/90 school
year, multigrade and double-shift systems would be implemented
nationwide in classrooms meeting the selection criteria.
Neans
7.        The IDA credit would finance a total of 100 manmonths of training
for 200 teachers and headmasters during Phases I and II through the funding
of transportation and subsistence expenses of the participants and the cost
of preparing the training sessions, including the services of specialists
and documentation. The attached table provides details on the training
program.



IN-SERVICE TRAINDIG PROGRA FOR MULTIGRADEIDOUBLE-SRIrT TEUCHES
Program            Particimants            Trainers       Duration  Dates       Location                 Program Content
1. Train-the-Trainers   Instructors of        INEADE Teacher        5 days   Spring Teacher Training Techniques of adult training;
of Double-Shift,     Teacher Training      Training Division               1987  Colleges          rationale for multigrade, double-
Multigrade Teachers  Colleges (TTCs)                                                               shift systems, timetablins,
and senior                                                                   preparation of lesson plans, use of
inspectors (6 in                                                             textbooks and teaching aide,
total).                                                                      techniques of maintaining student
interest and discipline in multi-
grade systema, tips for keepimg
students alert during the afternoon
in double-shift systems, criteria to
be used for assessment of teacher
performance and student progreas.
2. Double-Shift,
Multisrade
TeachinR
Techniques                                                                                                                                     o
(a) Initial         100 experlmental    Trainers from TTCs   7 days   Summer                      Same as above except for topic on
Training        teachers and          and senior                      1987                     the techniques of adult training.
headmasters (4        inspectors
groups of 25)
(b) Follov-up                                                   5 days   Susmer
Training                                                              1988
(c) Initial         100 teachers and                           7 days   Summer
Training        headmasters to                                        1989
start large-scale
implementation (4
groups of 25)
WAP
March 1986



- 85 -                     ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF INSPECTORATES IN EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATION AND PEDAGOGICAL SUPPORT
Background
1.        At the national level, the management and control of primary
education are assured by the Primary Education Directorate ("Direction
Enseignement Elementaire" - DEE). Operational responsibility is delegated
to 10 regional inspectorates, which work closely with the regional
governments. At the local level, there are a total of 41 departmental
lnspectorates, which are responsible for administration and management of
the primary school network, control and supervision of all pedagogical
aspects, and community relations as concerns pre-primary and primary
education.
2.        The 1972 Administrative Reform is based on the principle of
decentralization to bring government closer to the people. Within the
framework of this principle, the Ministry of National Education has decided
to decentralize education administration to the regional and departmental
inspectorate levels. To this end, personnel and budgetary management has
been decentralized at the level of the regional inspectorates. All
teachers are assigned to and covered under the regional inspectorate
budget. The decentralization, however, is incomplete in the sense that the
organiza.ional structure and vertical and horizontal relationships between
central, regional and departmental levels have not been clearly
articulated. More specifically, the departmental inspectorates have
neither adequate budgetary resources nor the authority to manage those they
receive. Further, their decision-making authority is limited, including
matters of personnel assignments and absences, which are best handled at
the local level but which they are required to refer to higher levels; this
not only causes lengthy delays in decision-making but also prevents the
inspectorates from utilizing resources more efficiently.
3.        Regarding pedagogical aspects, overloading of the departmental
inspectorates with administrative and community relations tasks, plus the
large number of untrained support staff, severely curtails the time
available for pedagogical supervision and control. Means of transportation
for making school supervision visits are very limited, with a reported
total of only 28 vehicles, in varying states of repair, for the 41
departmental lnspectorates. A lack of reproduction and other documentation
facilities hampers their capacity for providing guidance and retraining for
the teaching staff under their control. Further, the lack of in-service
training for the inspectors themselves makes it difficult for them to
fulfill their pedagogical support responsibilities adequately, particularly
with respect to innovative teaching methods.



ANNEX 3-10
- 86 -                       Page 2 of 7
Strategy
4.        In light of these problems, the Government has commissioned a
study, financed under the Third Education Project (Cr. 908-SE), to redefine
the roles and responsibilities of the regional and departmental inspector-
ates. This study is expected to clarify the relationshîps between the
central, regional and departmental levels and to recommend indicators of
performance and appropriate personnel coefficients (currently, on average,
for each inspectorate 15 prlmary school teachers are provided as adminis-
trative staff). The performance indicators would include the frequency of
school supervision, clear separation of administrative, personnel manage-
ment and pedagogical supervisory tasks. An examination of the level at
which resources are managed, the level at which personnel management
decisions and sanctions may be taken, and the internal organization of
regional and departmental inspectorates would also be undertaken.
5.        Following an agreement between the Government and IDA on the
recommendations of the study to be adopted, the decentralization would
undergo experimentation in the three project regions of Louga, Diourbel and
Fatick between August 1988 and June 1990, and the findings of an ongoing
monitoring and evaluation would be integrated into the training program to
be offered to all inspectorates. New administrative texts and organigrams
vould be issued and decentralization implemented nationwide as of August
1990.
I4eans
6.        To assist in making these changes operational, the project would
finance: supplementary resources for transportation (27 heavy-duty
vehicles and, for the experimentation, 20 motorbikes for assistant depart-
mental inspectors); rehabilitation of the 12 inspectorates in the project
regions; basic office furniture; and equipment for the production and
duplication of materials needed by the inspectors in their pedagogical
support functïons. In addition, to assist the Government in elaborating
the necessary documentation and in preparing the in-service workshops and
seminars, the project would finance 17 manmonths of specialist services (of
which 10 manmonths would be local specialists) in education administration,
personnel management, and organization and planning; and 50 manmonths of
fellowships in school administration. Also, the cost of 367 manmonths of
local training for regional and departmental inspectors, assistant
inspectors, and the administrative staff would be covered under the
project. The following table provides details on the training program for
the experimental and other inspectorate staff.



IN-SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAI FOR IRSPECTORATE STAFF
Target Croup                     Parti tpants                        Trainers                      Prograu Content           Duration      Dates                Remarka
1. Regional nmd departuental                                                                       Decentralisation of education      21 days      1987     The training proram  is
inspectorate staff                                                                              administration:  Purpose.                                 intended to provide an
participating in                                                                                elements, roles and                                       overvie, of the roles sud
experimentation vith                                                                            responsibilities.                                         responsibilities of
decentraliration (area of                                                                       Planning: Projecting demand                               iDSpectors at all levelas
experimentation:  Loua.                                                                         for schooling; proposing                                  under the decentralied
Diourbel, Fatick regions)                                                                       school location plana to DER?                             syste.  Each general topie
and rehabilitation and major                             vould be introduced st a
(a) Initial training        Thirty-seven participants (3       Seven trainers in total.  The   maintenance needs to DCES;                                plenary session and partici-
regional, 9 departmental          Directorate of Primary Educa-   organizing exainations and                                 pants vould be divided into
inspectors. 5 regional, 20        tion; Advanced Teacher Train-   activities for atart of the                               mlixed groupa to discuss
departmental assistant            ing School (ENS); INEADE         school year; identifying                                  pointa and vould rejoin at a
inspectors)                       Teacher Training Division; and  target *chools for double-                                 plenary session to present
local consultante on education  shift and multigrade systema;                             their vney.
administration, OSN snd          estimating textbook needs and
personnel management.            arranging for distribution.
Management: Personnel assign-
ments, supervision of attend-
ance and performance, use of
sanctions; financial manage-
ment (budget preparation,
allocation and cost control).
School administration: Time-
tabling; prsonnel performance
monitoring; determination of
double-shift. multigrade
requirementa; tertbook *torage.
Pedagogical support: Elements
of pedagogical support to
teachers: effective teaching
techniques; use of cev text-
books; preparation of lesson
plans snd veekly timetables;
techniques of multigrade and
double-shift tetching; tech-
niques of assessing etudent
progress.
Supervision: Supervision of
t«acher snd heamaster perfor-
mence and attendance; assesa-
ment of student performance.                                                               se
School Administration:
Assistance to head-mastars in
organizing teaching time-
tables, personnel management                                                                 o
ad supervision; techniques of
generating comunity support;
and preventive maintenance.
Other: Ways to ensute rapid
dissemination and classroom
application o. curricula
changea snd pedagogical
innovations.



Target Group                     Participants                         Trainers                       Program Content           Durat ion      Dates                Remsrks
2. Administrative staff in
reg1onal and departmental
inspectorates
participating In the
experimentation.
(a) Initial Training         Sixty participants (15 from                                         Administrative procedures         8 days        1987
regional and 45 from                                                under decentralization:
departmental inspectorates)                                         record-Iceeping on personnel
assignments, absences, and
expenditures; processing of
correspondence.
(b) Follov-up Training                                                                           Review results of interia         4 days        1988-89
evaluation; discuss partici-
pant problems in carrying out
their responsibilities. pro-
posed solutions and
modifications.
3. Regional Inspectors
(a) Initial Training         Seven regional inspectors          Trainers from the Directorate   Role:  Functions and responsi-    10 tdays    1988          The training program for tte
of Primary Education; Advanced  bilities under                                              non-experimental inspector-
Teacher/Inspector Training       decentralization.                                          *tes would be based on that
School; and INEADE Teacher       Planning:  Organization of                                 for experimental inspector-
Training Division.               examinations; planning for                                 ates as modified folloting
start of the achool year;                                 evaluations.  The program
projecting demand for                                     vould start in 1988 to *llov
schooling.                                                the benefit of one-year
Management:  Personnel assign-                            expérience under experi-
mente and supervision;                                    mentation. The mcajor
financial management (budget                              difference of tais program
preparation, allocation and                                is that it vould be provided
cost control); identification                             to homogeneous groups.
of rehabilitation and major
maintenance needs.
(b) Follow-up Training                                                                           Review of implementation          5 days each  1989 and
problems and recommended                       1990
solutions.
t 
4 e
OlC



Terget Group                     Participants                        Trainera                      Progra. Content           Duration      Dates                Remarka
4. Departuental Inspectors
(a) Initial Training         32 departuental inapectora                                         Rôle: Functeons and reaponsi-
bilitties under
decentralization.
Planning:  Scheduling, organi-
aation of activities for *tart
of the *chool year and exmin-
ations.
Management: Personnel assign-
mente and supervision;
financial management (budget
preparation, allocation and
coat control); eatimating
textbook needs; arranging for
distribution.
School Administration: Time-
tables; personnel. fonitoring;
determination of multigrade,
double-ahift requirementa.
Comsunity Relations:  Mobili-
zing comtunity resources.
School Maintenance: Main-
taining inventory lista;
achool and furniture mainten-                                                        1
ance; reporting major mainten-                                                      <»
ance needs a.
(b) Follov-up Training                                                                          Re'iew of ilplementation prob-  5 days each  1989 and
lens and recome"nded                           1990
solutions.
CI



Target Croup                    Participants                       Trainers                     Progran Content          Duration      Dates               Remarka
5. Departmental Assistant
Iuspectors
(a) Initial Training        20 Departmental Assistant                                        Role: Functions and responsi- 21 days          1987
Inspectors.                                                     bilities under
decentralization.
Pedagogical Support: Elements
of pedagogical support to
teachers: effective teaching
techniques; use of nev text-
books; preparation of lesson
plans and weekly timetables;
techniques of multigrade and
double-shift teaching; tech-
niques of assessing student
progress.
Supervision: Supervision of
teacher snd headmaster per-
formance and attendance;
assesament of student
performance.
School Administration:
Assistance to headmasters in
organizing teaching time-
tables, personnel management
and supervision, techniques of
generating conmunity support,
and preventive maintenance.
Other: Ways to ensure rapid
dissemination and classroom
application of curricula
changes and pedagogical
innovations.
(b) Follov-up Training                                                     "                Review of imsplementation         5 days     1988 and
problems, teachers' needs. and                1989
recommended solutions.



Target Group                     Participants                        Trainers                      Progrsa Content           Duration      Dates                Reurks
6. Administrative staff in
Regional Inspectorates
(a) Initial Training        35 administrative staff.                                            Administrative procedures:         8 days       1987
supervising record-keeping for
personnel movementa, absences,
and expenditures; processing
of correspondence.
(b) Follov-up Training                                                                          Reviev of impliementation          4 days       1988
problema and recoended
solutions.
7. Administrative Staff in
Departuental
Inspectorates
(a) Initial Training         195 admisistrative staff (6                                        Administrative proceduresa         8 days       1988
groupe).                                                           supervising record-keeping of
personnel movements, absences
and for expenditures; proces-
sing of correspondence.
(b) Follov-up Training                                                                          Review of ihplenentation           4 days      1989-90
problems  nd recomended
solutions. 
8. DERP Counterparte at
Regional and Departmental
Inspectorates
(a) Initial Training        46 (2 groupe of 23 each)          DERP trai trs                     (a) Elemants of education          8 days        1987
plaaning.
(b) Role of field agents in
providing data to DEP.
(c) Explanation of items in
the questionnaire on
education atatistica and
achool mapping to
instructors for thetr
accurate completion.
(b) Folloup Training                                                                            Reviev of quality of input         8 days      1988-90
received from the field;
clarification of problem
points; explanation of nev
*leamnts introducad.
r-1
W4PED
11ardi 1986



- 92 -                       ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING CAPACITY
1:kground
1.        The objective of this component is to increase the quantity of
textbooks in primary schools, improve their relevance and quality, and
reduce their cost. Each text would follow the following sequence of
development: in year one, editing/origination; printing and distribution
in year two; use in achools as of year three; and evaluation as of year
four.
2.        In 1983 the Government instituted a free textbook loan system
vhereby each year, on a progressive basis, two or three regions are
provided with textbooks. The first cycle of the system is expected to be
completed in 1988 when the Cap Vert Region receives its allotment.  The
policy also provides for "topping up" of textbook stocks in each region
during the years following the initial supply. Students use the textbooks
on a loan basis during the year and return them to achool at year's end.
Those who fail to do so reimburse the cost of the textbooks.
3.        Currently, MEN's Directorate of Studies, Human Resources and
Planning is responsible for textbook procurement and distribution. It uses
the services of "Nouvelles Editions Africaines" to order the textbooks and
transport them to departmental inspectorates. The procurement and distri-
bution functions are operating adequately; what is lacking is the capacity
to produce original material or adapt textbooks that are both relevant to
teaching/learning needs and inexpensive. To this end, the project would
assist the Government to establish a Textbook Publishing Unit at INEADE
whose responsibilities would be to manage the development of appropriate
textbooks through directing the publishing process, guiding authors,
editing their manuscripts, and making arrangements for printing the text-
books. In addition, the Government plans to develop a cost-recovery system
by charging an average fee of CFAF 1,000 (about US$2.80) per student per
year, per set of books. The project would assist the Government to analyze
the equity implications and the potential enrollment effects in the low-
income areas of the proposed fee system.
Strategy
4.        Original writing or adaptation of exlsting textbooke.  The Text-
book Unit vould assess the adaption possibilities of books that are
"largely international" in content (e.g. math and science) and negotiate
with the copyright holders. For French textbooks, although adaptation is a
possibility, because of cultural demanda in language and content, writing
new textbooks la likely to be a better approach. For the national language
textbooks as well as all of the teacher guides, the writing of new
materials is recommended. Local authors, following their training, would
do the original vriting or adaptation and would be paid a flat fee for



- 93 -                         ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 9
their work. They would assign the copyrights to MEN. Relevant units of
INEADE would provide the basic data, primary research and results from
which the authors would develop the manuscripts. INEADE's "Division des
Actions Scolaires" (Division of Educational Matters), as well as inspectors
and teachers at teacher training colleges, would assess draft manuscripts
for content, pedagogic suitability and conformity to curriculum.
5.        Co-publishing.  The project would enter into co-publishing
arrangements to the extent possible to ensure speed, accuracy, cost
efficiency, and on-the-job training for the Textbook Publishing Unit staff.
For those titles %here adaptation of an existing book is the most efficient
and cost-effective method, the publishing partner could be the copyright
holder. For most textbooks which are original works, the Textbook Pub-
lishing Unit would advertise for a publishing partner or invite a limited
number of bids. !or teacher guides, the Textbook Publishing Unit would
undertake the publication of a limited number of titles by itselt and
duplicate them at INEADE facilities.
e.        Printing.  Printing would be performed using the cheapest source
on the international market. For printing of books and booklets of up to
10,000 copies, bids would be invited through local competitive bidding.
For very shurt print runs, such as teacher guides for national languages,
for up to 2,000 copies, the reprographic unit at INEADE would be used.
7.        Evaluation.  INEADE's "Division des Recherches Psychologiques at
Docimologiques" (Psychological Research and Instructional Materials
Division) would conduct controlled texting of manuscripts or textbooks in
the classroom.
8.        Revolving Fund.  This fund would have two sources of revenue:
author royalties, and fees from the contributory textbook loan scheme.
Author royalties from sales to the private sector would be assigned to MEN
and deposited in the fund. With regard to the contributory textbook loan
scheme, the details have not yet been finalized. It is estimated that an
average of CFAF 1,000 (about USS2.80 would be charged per one set of books
per year starting in 1987. It is expected that by 1990, the year after
termination of the Government's free textbook loan policy, the revolving
fund would be sufficiently large to maintain the current student/textbook
ratio and finance teacher books and guides. Increased revenues expected
beyond 1990 would also help offset shortfalls in fee collection, the cost
of the collection and administration, and more importantly, increased text-
book prices.
9.        Textbook storage.  To ensure against losses, two storage cabinets
would be provided to those schools which do not have storage facilities.
The assistant departmental inspectors would verify stock levels periodic-
ally, including controlling the number of damaged books.
10.       Training.  To assist the Textbook Unit Director and Editor to
develop their publishing and printing procurement capacity, a publishing
specialist and a production controller would be recruited for a period of
12 and 8 months, reepectively. In addition, both the Project Director and
Editor would each receive six months of fellowship training abroad to study
publishing. Further training would also be likely under co-publishing



- 94 -                           ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 9
arrangements. To ensure that authors are informed of the manuscript
specifications and royalties, as vell as pedagogical aspects, the Textbook
Unit and INEADE representatives w>uld conduct workshops for the authors.
Finally, when the new textbooks are distributed to departmental inspec-
torates, a one-day training program would be offered to assistant
inspectors on the content of the textbooks and ways to use them effici-
ently. Assistant inspectors would, in turn, train the teachers vithin
their area of jurisdiction on the use of textbooks.
11.       Means.  In addition to the items listed above, project funds
would finance minor renovation of office space; furniture; equipment,
including one vehicle; publishing and printing coste of textbooks and
teacher guides; distribution of the new books developed, and incremental
operating costs related to the equipment financed.
12.       The attached tables provide details on comparative costs of
current textbook purchases and those to be developed under the project, the
production schedule, coste and quantity of books to be developed, and
comparison of income and expenditures under the current free loan system
and proposed rental fee system.
Table 1 - Comparison of Costs Between Purchased Books and
those to be Developed Under the Project
(in CFAF)
Estimated Cost of New
Per Copy Cost of Textbooks        Textbooks Developed
Subiect/Level       Purchased by MEN in 1985         by the Textbook Unit
French - Grade 1                  550                           256
French - Grade 2                  550                           256
French - Grade 3                1,627                           388
French - Grade 4                1,727                           398
French - Grade 5                1,921                           549
French - Grade 6                1,989                           540
Math - Grade 3                    ..                            398
Math - Grade 4                   ...                            417
Science - Grade 5               1,575                           559
Note: The comparison is not based on identical production specifications.
Textbooks to be developed under the project would be of the same or
improved pedagogical quality but would be more basic in terms of
production specifications as listed on page 7 of this Annex.
Source: Mission estimates.



~ 95 -                            ANXN  3-il
Page 4 of 9
Table 2 - Production Schedule of Books to be Develi:med by
the Textbook Publishing Unit
French a/             Math b/        Science b/         National Lan~uage
Level       Studente  Teachers  Students   Teachers   Students                Teachers c/
Grade 1       1989      1989         -        1990         -       1990 (3 titles), 1991 (3 titles)
Grade 2       1989      1989         -        1990         -       1991 (3 titles), 1992 (3 titie.)
Grade 3       1990      1990       1991       1991
Grade 4       1990      1990      1991        1991         -
Grade 5       1991      1991      (1992) d/  (1992) d/    1991
Grade 6       1991      1991      (1992) d/  (1992) d/  (1992) d/
ai Timetable based on co-publishing of new books between the Textbook Publishing Unit and a
commercial publisher.
h/ Timetable based on co-publishing of adaptations of existing books bstween the TextbooV
Publishing Unit and a commercial publisher (in the case of adapted books, omner of publ:shing
rights).
/   Timetable based on Textbook Publishing Unit publishing new booke.
d/   Development, writing, testing and editing activities are covered under the project;
manufaccuring process and costs are excluded.
Source: Hission estimates.



Table 3 - Cost and Quantity of Students' and Teachers' Books to be Developed by the Textbook Publ'shing Unit
Estimated
Students' Books (SB)    Years of                   Unit Cost       Total Cost    Total Cobt
Subject and Level    Teachers' Books (TB)  Availability  Quantity  of Print'ng a/  of Printing a/  Price (US$)
French    Grade 1              SB               1989-91    153,050           .35         53,308            87,978
Grade 2              SB               1989-91    134,010          .35          46,676            77,013
Grade 3              SB               1990-93    124,400          .53          65,795           108,489
Grade 4              SB               1990-93    103,650          .54          56,157            92,622
Grade 5              SB               1991-94     96,480          .75          72,186           119,067
Grade 6              SB               1991-94    118,170          .74          86,889           143,319
Subtotal                                                 729,760                     381,011           628,488
Grade 1              TB               1989-93      5,550          .88           4,868             7,998
Grade 2              TB               1989-93       4,950         .90           4,470             7,353
Grade 3              TB               1990-94      4,860          .92           4,450             7,353     1
Grade 4              TB               1990-94      4,270         1.11           4,737             7,869
Grade 5              TB               1991-95      4,070         1.12           4,567             7,482
Grade 6                               1991-95      4,560         1.10           5,000             8,256
Subtotal                                                  2e,260                      28,092            46,311
Math      Grade 3               SB               1991-94    135,270          .54          73,289           120,873
Grade 4              SB               1991-94    111,270          .57          63,156           104,103
Subtotal                                                 246,540                     136,445           224,976
Grade 1              TB               1990-94      5,920          .92           5,422             8,901
Grade 2              TB               1990-94      5,320          .94           5,009             8,256
Grade 3              TB               1991-95      5,230          .95           4,992             8,256   » t
Grade 4              TB               1991-95      4,460         1.19           5,293             8,772   0 0
Su!'; otal                                                20,930                      20,716            34,185
oS9
Science   Grade 5              SE               1991-94      96,480          .76          73,431          121,131   1



Estimated
Students' Books (SB)    Years of                  Unit Cost       Total Cost    Total Cost
Subject and Level    Teachers' Books (TB)  Availability  Quantity  of Printing a/  of Printing a/  Price (US$)
Local Languages
Wolof     Grade 1              TB               1990-94      4,140          .85          3,524 b/         5,160
Grade 2             TB               1991-95      4,088          .85          3,480 b/          5,160
TB
Pular     Grade 1              TB              1990-94         177        1.14             202 ci           297
Grade 2             TB               1991-95         175        1.16            202 c/            297
TB
Diola     Grade 1              TB              1990-94         532         .98             525 c/           774
Grade 2             TB               1991-95        525          .98            519 ci            774
TB
Serere    Grade 1              TB              1991-95         404        1.00             409 c/           606
Grade 2             TB               1992-96        381         1.02            388 Z/            580
TB
Mandingue Grade 1              TB               1991-95        289        1.06             307 c/           451    g
Grade 2             TB               1992-96        272         1.06            290 c/            426    @
TB
Soninke   Grade 1              TB              1991-95         346        1.03             357 c/           529
Grade 2             TB               1992-96        326         1.03            339 c/            503
Subtotal                                                 11,655                     10,542            15,557
Total for Students'
Books                                                   1,072,790                    590,887           974,595
Total for Teachers'
Books                                                      60,845                     59,350            96,053  
Grand Total                                              1,133,625                    650,237         1,070,648   O'
Note: See next page for basis of cost calculations and production specifications.
a/   Figures rounded off.
b/   Printed from typed originals; no typesetting required.
c/ Duplicated at INEADE f rom stencils.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 7 of 9
BASIS OF COST CALCULATIONS
1.   Costs include, where appropriate, development, testing and revision,
authors' fees, illustrations, rights, overheads, manufacturing and
freîght.
2.   Quantities of student6' textbooks are based on:
One book for two students
Book life of three years
Thirty percent loss after two years
One book per teacher
Allowance for teacher training
d.   Quantities of teachers books are based on:
One book per teacher
Book lfe of four years
Twenty percent loss after three years
Allowance for teacher training
PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
1.   Students' books:
Typesetting average 250 words/page
Pages Grade 1, Grade 2 - 96; Grade 3, Grade 4 - 160; Grade 5,
Grade 6 - 224
Illustrations average 100/book
Text printing one color
Text paper 90 gsm
Cover printing two colors
Cover paper 260 gsm varnished
Sewn binding
Format 240 x 170 mm
2.   Teachers' books:
Typesetting average 350 words/page (except for books with short
print-runs which would be typewritten).
Grades 1, 2 and 3 = 96; Grades 4, 5 and 6 - 160
Text printinp one color (except for books with short print-runs
which would oe duplicated).
Text paper 80 gsm
Cover printing one color
Cover paper 260 gsm (except for duplicated books where 180 gsm)
Sewn binding more than 96 pages; wire stitching 96 pages and less
Format 240 x 170 mm (except for duplicated books, where
297 x 210mm).



- 99-                                ANNEX 3-11
Page 8 of 9
Tab'.e 4 - Book Costs and Amount of Cost Recovery Through the
Fee System between 1987 and 1990 -- A Hypothesis
The following table shows the hypothetical balance sheet during a
transition or start-up period. It assumes an average fee of CFAF 1000 per
student per set of books per year, starting in 1987 for those regions which
vill have already benefitted from the free book loan policy and the
progressive application of the fee system to the o'her regions.
Regions        School       Projected       Fees       Book Costs      Balance
Year       Contributing    Population    Population     CFAF '000      CFAF '000     CFAF '000
(+10% per year)
1987       Senegal            18,290
Oriental
Diourbel           17,963
Louga              19,098       186,100       186,100     350,000      -163,900 a/
Fleuve             48,181
Kolda              36,288
1988       As for 1987       139,820
+ Ziguinchor       55,867       346,940       346,940     400,000      -53,060 b
Kaolack          41,278
1989 ci    As for 1988       236,965
Fatick            29,849       530,476       530,476     450,000      +8t1,476 d/
Thies             62,570
1990 c/    As for 1989       329,384       855,329       855,329      265,000 b/ +590,329 g/
+ Cap Vert        153,427
/   The deficit would be etill greater if Senegal Orfental's book stocks (3 years old) were
renewed.
b/ Likewise for the reneval of the 3-year old book stocks of Diourbel and Louga.
c|   First year of introduction of new books developed under the project (students' and
teachers' books in French for Grades 1 and 2). Effects are not included in
expenditures.
d/   This surplus could go towards renewing the 3-year old book stocks of Fleuve and Kolda.
e/   Second year of new books (students' and teachers' books in French for Grades 3 and 4);
teachers' books in math for Grades 1 and 2; and teachers' books for Grade 1 in Wolof,
Pula;e, and Diola.
fi  Estimate for 10% topping-up all regions, assum'ng 5% per annum rise in current book
prices and maintaining current book-pupil ratios. New book costs are included.
j/   Similarly for Ziguinchor and Kaolack.



- 100 -                               ANNEX 3-11
Page 9 of 9
Table 5 - Comparison of Book Expenditures and Incore from Fees for
One Fully Operational Year (1990)
Cost Expressed
Cost of a Book Set      No. of Students                             as Annual
Per Student            (public)          Cost of Supply      Average Through
in 1990              per Grade          of a Book Set     3-Year Book Life
(+5% per year)            in 1990            CFAF (000)          CFAF (000)
Grade 1              668                198,125               132,347              44,116
Grade 2              668                167,122               111,637              37,212
Grade 3            1,977                145,071               286,805              95,601
Grade 4            3,598                122,684               441,417             147,139
Grade 5            4,312                114,697               494,573             164,857
Grade 6            8,133                136.160             1,107,389             369,129
Total                                 883,859             2,574,168             358,054
Source: DERP.
Harch 1986



- 101 -                      ANNEX 3-12
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIS OF COST ESTIMATES
1.        Construction costs vere estimated on the basis of (a) schedules
of accommodation; (b) detailed architectural drawings, specifications and
quantities developed for the construction of 86 prototype claserooms;
(c) construction contracts (1984-86) for similar facilities; and
(d) published official prices. The net surface per student place (1m2) is
based on experience in 2xisting similar facilities and are comparable to
the median unit areas in the last low-cost IDA-assisted institutions. Area
and capital costs per specialist/ student place and schedule of
accommodation are provided on pages 3 and 4-6 of this Annex, respectively.
The estimated base costs, in 1985 prices, per square meter of gross
construction area, which average US$555 equivalent for the National
Pedagogical Institute and US$115 for the classrooms, are reasonable for the
utilitarian standards of construction allowed for.
2.        Furniture and equipment costs were derived from preliminary lists
prepared for this project and from costs obtained in recent equipment con-
tracts for similar items and furniture prototypes developed during project
preparation. These were reviewed during appraisal and found to be appro-
priate in scope and cost, even allowing a substantial savings. Furniture
and equipment lists and costs are provided on pages 9-11 of this Annex.
3.        Feea for design and supervision of the Pedagogical Institute (9%
of estimated construction costs) vere estimated on the basis of consultant
contracts and typical supervision fees of Senegalese consulting architects
and engineers.
4.        Foreign exchange component.  The foreign exchange component of
the project is US$12.2 million (62%) of estimated total project cost, or
US$9.6 million (64%) of the estimated base cost. The following represents
the estimated foreign exchange percentages of total base cost for
individual categories:
(a)  Civil works 1/                                                 34%
Building Materials                                            (62%)
Office building and classroom contracts                       (50%)
Unskilled labor services                                       (0%)
(b)  Furniture                                                      49%
Imported                                                    (89%)
Locally produced                                            (38%)
1/   See pages 7 and 8 of this Annex for breakdown of construction costs.



-102-              ~~ANNE  3-12
- 102 -                 Page 2 of 13
(c)  Equipment                                                     96%
Office equip_ent                                           (89%)
Vehicles                                                  (100%)
(d)  Textbooks                                                     83%
Publishing                                                 (58%)
Printing                                                  (100%)
(e)  Special'st Services                                           81%
(f)  Fellowships and Local Training                                53%
Fellowshlps                                               (100%)
Local Training                                              (0%)
(g)  Operating Costs                                               79%
5.        For civil works and furniture, the percentages are based on the
composition of local and foreign cost for materiale, labor, overhead, and
transport. For equipment, the percentage is derived on the basis of con-
tracta awarded under the previous IDA credit (for some civil works this
source is aleo used). It is estimated that 100% of the civil worke con-
tracts vould be awarded to local firms, all equipment/vehicles would be
directly imported, and about 75% of the furniture would be manufactured
locally.
Disbursements
(a)  Civil works:  80% of total expenditures for office buildings; 70%
of total expenditures for claseroons (averaged from 100% for
building materials, 80% for contractors and 50% for unskilled
labor services);
(b) Furniture and eguipMent: Office furniture: 100% of the foreign
cost of directly imported items and 100% of locally manufactured
goode procured through LCB; Tables/benches for claserooms: 80%
of costs of locally manufactured goods procured through LCB;
(c)  Specialist services, fellowships and local training:  100%; and
(d) Operating coste: 80%.
Special Account
6.        Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
signed by the Project Director and forvarded to IDA through the Directorate
of Debte and Investuents, Ministry of Finance. All disbursements would be
fully documented except those against contracts valued at US$20,000 equiva-
lent or less; disbursemente against these contracta would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. The documentation for disbursements
made against statements of expenditure would be attached to the related
withdrawal application and would remain on file in the Project Unit and



- 103 -                       ANNEX 3-12
Page 3 of 13
made available for random rev.ew by IDA representatives during supervision
and by the auditor.
AREA AND CAPITAL COST OF OFFICE SPACE PER SPECIALIST AND OF
CLASSROOM SPACE PER STUDENT/
SURFACES ET COUT D'INVESTISSEMENT PAR BUREAU DE SPECTMLISTE ET
PAR PLACE D'ELEVE DANS LA SALLE DE CLASSE a/
Gross Area (m 2)            Cost (in US$) Per Place
Surface Brute (m 2)         Coût (en Dollars) Par Place
Per    C.W. b/    Furn. & Equip
Places     Total  Place    G.C.    Mob. & Equip. c/    Total
Pedagogical
Institute    73 d/      1,077   14.7    9,058         1,382        10,536
Primary
Classrooms   56          60.5    1.08     126 e/         29 f/        155
ai  Costs are net of physical and price contingency allowances.
h/  Including site development and professional fees.
c/  Excludes vehicles.
d/ Excludes service staff and visitors.
e/ Compared with average current cost US$278.
/  Compared with average current cost US$36.
&/ Compared with average current cost US$314.



- 104 -                         ANINEX 3-12
1fage 4 of 13
SCHEDULE oF ACCOINWDAfON/
INVENTAIRE DES LOCAUX
Bldg. Coût Total in
Capa-  No. of Net Area in Sq. m    Total Gross   Per Sq. m      CPAF
Acconnodation Unit/Locaux    clty    Units  Place  Unit  Total  Area in Sq. m in CFAF '000   '000
1.A DIR. OF STUDIES, HUMAN RESOURCES
AND PLANNING/UER                             -      -      -      -
1.B PEDAGOCICAL INSTITUTE1INEADE
DIRECTION
Bureau Directeur                     1       1     20    20     20
Secretaire Generai                   1       1     12    12     12
Secretaire Direction                 2       1      6    12     12
Gestionnaire                         1       1     12    12     12
Salle Reunion                       12       1    1.5    18     18
ETUDES GENERALES
Pedagogie Experimentale              2       3      9    18      54
Evaluateur                           3       1      6    18      18
sociologue                           2       1      9    18     18
Dactylos                             2       1      6    12      12
CURRIGUL, METRDES.
MATERIELS ET FORMATION
Maths-Sciences                       5       1      9   45      45
Dactylos                             2       1      6    12      12
LANGUES MATERNELLES
Ouolof/serere                        5       1      9           45
Pular/Mandinague                     5       1      9           45
Dioula/Soniuke                       4       1     10           40
Dactylos                             4       1      6            24
ACTIVITES EVEIL
Msthodologie )
Histoire     )                      3       1      9    27      27
Geographi   )
Dactylos                            2       1      6    12      12
AGRO-ZOTECHNIE ARTISANAT
ET TRAVAIL PROUCTIF
Agro-Pedagogue )                    3       1      9    27     27
Insp. Adjoint )
Dactylos                            2       1      6    12     12



- 105 -                           ANNEX 3-12
Page 5 of 13
Bldg. Cost Total in
Capa-  No. of  Net Area in Sq. m    Total Cross   Per Sq. m      CFAF
Accomodation UrIt         cit      Units  Place  Unit Total Areà in Sq.   l In CFAF '000  '000
EDITION ET PUBLICATION
Edition                              2       1      9    18     18
Prof. de lettre/Edition              3       1     10    30     30
Dactylos                             2       1      6    12     12
BIBLIOMEQE
Salle Lecture                       10       1    1.8    18     18
Recept. Volumes                      1      12     12    12     12
Exposit./Fichier                     -       1     12    12     12
Stockage                             -       1      -    18     18
Reparation                           -       1      -    20      20
SALLES SPECIALISEES
Tech. Audivisuelles                   1       1     20    20     20
Salle Formation                      60       1    1.2    72     72
Reprograhie Offset                    1       1     20    20     20
Diffusion/Stockage                    1       1     20    20     20
Magasin/Stockage                      1       1     20    20     20
Sanitaires                            6       2      3    18     36
Local Gardien                         1       1     25    25     25
144                         806      1,007           200      201,400
Site Development/VRD 15%                                                                           30,210
Total 1.B                                                                                     231,610
1.C REG/DEP. INSPECTORATES/
INSPECTORATS REGIONAUX ET
DEPARTEE UX                                   3                             -             -        30,000
1.D DIR. OF SCHOOL OONSTRUCTION/DCES
Physical Facility Management
Division/
Division de la Conservation
du Patrimoine
(amenagements et refectiona)
Bureau Chef Service                   1       1     12    12     12
Bureau Patrimoine                     3       1      8    24     24
Bureau Informatique                   2       1      9    18     18
Archives                              -       1      -     5      5
Reprographie                          1       1     10    10     10
69        100           50         5,000
CELLULES REcIONALES
(Louga; Djourbel, Fatick)
(amenagements et refections)
Bureau Insp. Tech                     1       3     12    12     36
Secretariat                           1       3      9     9     27
Archives/Repr.                        -       3      -     6     18
81        100           40        4,000
Total 1.D                                                                                      9,000



- 106 -                                ANNEX 3-12
Page 6 of 13
Bldg. Cost Total in
Capa-  No. of  Net Area in Sq. m    Total Cross   Per Sq. m        CFAF
Accommodation Unit         city    Units  Place  Unit  Total  Area in Sc. m in CFAF '000   '000
1,E PROJECT UNIT/BUREAU DU PROJET
Bureau Directeur                       1       1     12    12      12
"   Directeur Adjt.                1        1     12    12      12
"   Adm. Gest.                     1        1     12    12      12
"   Coordinateur                   1        1     12    12      12
Spec. Achat                    1        1     12    12      12
Contr. Travaux                 1        1     12    12      12
Comptable                      1        1     12    12      12
Secretariat                    2        1      7    14      14
Local Informatique                     -       1     12    12      12
"   Reprographie                     -       1      9      9      9
f   Archives                         -       1      5      5      5
"   Reunion                          -       1     20    20      20
Sanitaire                              -       1      6      6      6
150        188        129          22,560
Site Development/VRD 18%                                                                               4,060
Terrain 1,500 M2                                                                                       6,000
Total 1.E                                                                                        32,620
(Location -- seul le cout du loyer a ete inclus a la categorie
couts de fonctionnement)                                                (8 x 12    650/month        62,400)
2.A 400 CLASSROOMS/400 CLASSES
Region -- Fatick                      56     -      .964    54    -
Region -- Diourbel                    56     -      .964    54    -
Region -- Louga                       56     -     .964    54    -
56     400   .964    54 21,600      24,192         41          991,872
Site Development/VRD (10%) a/                                                                         99,187
Total 2.B                                                                                     1,091,059
2.C REHABILITATION OF 100 CLASSROOMS/
REHABILITATION DE 100 CLASSES
Total 2.C                       56      100   1.13 63.49  6,349       7,111         18 b/      128,000
2.D PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM/
SYSTEME D'ENTRETIEN PREVENTIF
Materiaux                                  ',500                                         16.70        41,750
Intervention artisans                      2,500                                          8.20        22,050
Total 2.D                                                                                        63,800
a/ y compris sanitaires
b! Selon une etude portant sur 35 établissements.



BREAIDOWN 0F CONSTRUCTION COSTS BY ELEMESTS APD PERCESTAGE OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE, CUSTOMS AND TAXES/
DECOMPOSITION DES COUTS PAR ELEENT DE CONSTRUCTION ET POURCENTAGE EN DEVISES, DROITS ET TAXES DE DOUANE 1/
COMpONF      sNSTRUCTIOH OF 400 CLASSROOMS
COM<POSANTE: CONSTRUCTION 400 SALLES DE CLASSE
Of ifhich/Duquel                         Constr. Mat./Mat. Constr.                       Labor/X.O.              Transport F.G.
Constr. Mat.      Labor   TR a
%       Mat. Constr.      MO.       F.G.         S        F.E./Devises     TDD b/    TDD b/      F.E. c/     LC d/   Spec */   F.E.          LC       Total
CORPS D'ETAT           100             E                               Import          6 x 3           8       7x8           Z S                               t  1
1                 2              3             4         56                       7              8910                            il        12         13        14        15
Installation chantier         3.3        60             30        10          100            1.98          50          .99        -          -          -         .24        .06
1.98           .99        .3
Terrassement                  0.5           -           78         2            0             -             -          -          -          _          -        .01        -
.49       .01
Maçonneries verticales       33.5        10    b/       83         7            -             -             -          -          -          -          -        1.87        .47
3.35         27.81      2.34
Béton armE                    1.5        65             25        10           45             .44          55          .24        -          -          -         .12        .03
.97           .37       .15
Dallage                       6.0        10    b/       83         7           -              -             -          -          -          -          -         .03        .08
.6           4.93       .42
Canalisation                  5.0        60                       10           -              -             -          -          -          -          -         .4         .1
3             1.5        .5
Couverture                   16.0         8    bl       85         7            10            .13          55          .07        -          -          -         .89        .23
1.28         13.61      1.12                                                                                                                   C
Menuiserie                    9.5        60             30        10           100           5.70          55         3.13        -          -          -         .76        .19
5.7           2.86        .95
Sanitaire                     4.5        33             60         7           100           1.50          55          .82        -          -          -         .24        .06
1.5           2.7        .3
Etanch6ité                   12.0        70             20        10           100            8.4          65         5.46        -          -          -         .96        .24
8.4           2.4        1.2
Peinture/Vitrerie             1.0        70             20        10            50            3.5          55         1.92        -          -          -         .08        .02
.7            .2        .1
V.R.D.                        7.2        10             v         10            -             -             -          -          -          -          -         .57        .15
.72          5.77       .72
Total                  100.0        28.2          63.69       8.11        -            21.65           -        12.63        0        63.69        9.81     6.49      1.62
T.E.tdevises                                -              -                    -           21.65           -          -          -           -         -        6.49        -      28.14
Taxes/TVA f/ TDD                           20%            16%       13%         -             -              -            _-                               -        -          -
5.64         10.19      1.05                                              12.63                                                           29.51
I/ Based on 86 prototypes constructed under the Third Education Project/
Basé sur les 86 prototypes construits dans le cadre du Troisième Projet Education.
a/ FG: Transport and overhead expenses/Transport et frais généraux.
b>/ TDD: Custom and taxes excepted TVA/Droits et taxes. TVA non comprise.
c/ FE: Poreign exchange/devises.                                                                                                                                                     2
iJ  LC: Local/local.
e/ Spec: of which, specialized/duquel main d'oeuvre spécialisee.
fi TVA: Value added tax/taxe à la valeur ajoutee.



ERA1DN  OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS SY ELEHENTS AD PERCENTAE OF FOREIS EXCIIAN6E, CUSTONS ANU TAMESF
DECOfPOSITIOS DES COUSs PAR ILENN? DE CONSTRUCTION ET POUICTAE EN DEVISES DROM  ET TAXES DE DOUANE If
CONPONET: NATIONAL PEDA60CICAL IISTITUE (IEDE)
CO?MPOSANTE INSTITUT PEDAGOGIQUE (ITA»!E)
Of Yhichbui ul                        Constr.  at./Mat. Constr.                 Labor/X.O.       Trasp. and PC.        Total
Constr. Nt.        Labor    SR a/
CONSTRUCTION TLElE TSI        S        mot. Constr.        N.O.      F.G6         2        F.ElDevises    TDD bJ  TSD  b|  F.E  cl    LC          FE.         LC
ELENETS DE CNSSMtCTION       100             S               S         z       Import          6 x 3                 7 x         2         S        Z          2           2
l                  2              3              4          5                         7                     9        10        il       12         1314
Terrassnmts                     3             -           70         30                           -
_            2.1         .9
Maçonnerie                     20           40            30         30           -               -            -        _
6             6          6
Biton ar%                      15                         3          30           25             .50          55       .82
8             4.S        4.5      (Acier)
Canalisation                    2          50             r          30           -              -             -        -
I              .4         .6
Couverture                      8                              2     30           95            3.80          65      2.47
4             1.6        2.4
Carrelage                       7          50             20         30           95           3.32           53      1.83
3.5           1.4        2.1
Menuiserie                     15           40            30         30          100            6.00          55      3.30
6             4.5        4.5
Sanitaire                       4  ,                      10         30          100           2.40           55      1.32
2.4            .4        1.2
Electricité                    10          60             10         30          100            6.00          55      3.30
6             1          3
Peinture                        6          50             20                      30              .9         55        .49
3             1.2        1.8
Vitrerie                        3          60             10         30          100             1.8          35       .99
1.8            .3         .9
V.R.D.                          7          40             30         30           50             1.4          65       .91
2.8           2.1        2.1
Total                         100          44.5           25.5       30           -             27.12          -     15.43     1.53     23.97        24          6
L../Devises                    S             -               -         -                       27.12           -        -      1.53        -         24          -      52.65
Taxes/TVA d/ TD                             20 S          16 S       13S          -              -             -     15.43       -         -          -          -      32.31
8.9           4.08       3.9
1/ Figures represent average percentages for au office building in Dakar/Chiffres representent les pourcentages toyens pour un batiment de bureaux à Daar.
a/  Transport and overhead exp DSesltransport et frais gnraux«.
b/ TDD: Custc and taxes excepted TVA/droits et taxes, TVA non cmprise.
c F FE: Foreign *xchange/devises.
/  TVA:  value added tax/txe 3 la valeur ajoutée.



SCEIOOL FURNITURE ANU EQUIPHENT LIST AND COSTS/
LISTE ET COUT DU lOBILIER ET EQUIPEtENT SCOLAIRES
Capecity: 28,000
nombre plac« elsves: 28.000
350 Claasroomai /50 Exp. Claseroomu/                  Rehab. of 100 Classroomao /       aintenance System/
350 Classes                 SO En                     Rebab. de 100 Classes          Systeme d'Entretien
Items/                   Unit Costi    No. of Unita/  Total Coati   No. of Units/ Totel Costi   No. of Units/ Total Costi  No of Unital  Total Costi Total Cost/
Nomenclature                 Prix Uni t       Unites       Cout Total       Unites      Cout Total       Unites       Cout Total       Unites      Cout Total  Cout Total
CF"A '000
Furniturallobilier
Table-Banc                                  8.75 a/       19,600 bi      171,500        2,800           24,500        3.000 c/       26.250          -             -
Bureau mattre                             25.00              350           8,750           50            1,250           55 d/        1,375          -
Chaise lattre                               7.50             350           2,625           50              375           55 d/          412          -
Amsire Métallique                         50.00              350          17,500           50            2,500           34 -         1,700          -
leuble à Carte                             12.00             120           1,440            18             216           34             408          -              -
Paneaux Affichage                          10.00             350           3,500           50             S50           100           1 000-
Total Mobilier                                                      205,315                          341                                        -             -           265,801
Equipement Pédaaonique
Règle i Tableau - le                       2.80              350 et          980           50              140          100             280          -
C«pas   Tableau - 40 cm                    2.00              120 f           240           18               36           34              68          -
Equerre à Tableau - 60 Sc                  2.00              120 7/          240            18              36           34              68          -
Ialette Pédagogique, comprenant:           20.00             120 f/        2,400            18             360           34             680          -              -
1 balance de Roberval, portée 5 kg
socle an fonte, plateaux se cuivre
I sire complate de 12 poids sn
laiton (total 1 kg) logée dans
un bloc en bois
1 série de trois mesures de capacité
à grain. 1 litre, 112 litre et
décilitre
1 diciitre cube démontable
1 mètre pliant à 5 branches aluminium
I double mitre ruban, acier trempé
laqué avec enroulement automatique
et blocage
I décamitre ruban
I niveau à bulle
I fil à plmb de maçon
I boussole diamètre 40 um
1 thermomtre ural à alcool,
40 ce
1 série de poids en fonte, 2 kg et
1 kg
1 chaîne d'arpenteur
1 jeu de 10 fiches                                                                                                                                                               aI>
et sur base prix table banc a 2 places.
bi nombre de places assises.
c/ comprend 1.000 unités neuves et 3.400 unités à réparer (58.82) estimées correspondre i 2000 unités neuves selon étude.
d/ cooprend 43 unités et 57 unités à réparer (212) estimées correspondre a 12 unités neuves.
e/  I par  lesse        s
i 1 par ecole de 3 classes



SCaOOL FCRNITURE ANU EQUIPMENT LIST AND COSTS/
LISTE ET COUT DU MOiBILIER ET EQUIPMEMNT SCOLAIRES
Capacity: 28.OOO
Nombre places eleves: 28,000
350 Clasarooasl               50 Exp. Classroomesl      Rehab. of 100 Classrooss/         Maintenance Systemi
350 Classes                  50 Exp. Classes            Rehab. de 100 Classes           Svst8ae d'Entretien
Items/                    Unit Cost/   No. of unitae/   Total Cot/  No. of Unitsi Total Costf   No. of Units/ Total Costl  No. of Units/ Total Costt Total Costl
Nomenclature                Prix A Unité       Unités        Coût Total        Unités      Coût Total        UnitEs       Coot Total       UnitEs       CoOt Total   Coût Total
CFAF '000
Globe Terrestre 0 30 cm                      4.50              120              540           18             81             34             153            -
Carte Géographique du SEnEgal                9.00              120            1,080           18            162             34             306
Politique, Economlque
Physique, ethnique
Support toile double face,
dimensions: 120 x 100 cm
Carte Afrique, politique
1/1,000,000. 1 feuille                      8.50              120            1,020          18             153             34            289             -              -
Carte £urope-Afrique 116,000,000,
2 feuilles                                  9.50              120            1,140          18             171             34            323             -              -
Carte du Monde                               7.50              120              900           18            135             34             255            -              -
Craie Blanche. botte de 100                  0.30            1,750              525         250              75            500             150            -              -
Craie du Couleur, botte de 100               0.45              700              315          100             45            200              90                           -
Peinture Ardoisine, couleur
verte, botte 1 kg                           2.50              120              300           18             45             34              85            -              -
Pinceau                                      1.20              120              144           18             22             34              41            -              -
Type queue de morue à peindre,
qualité supérieure, manche bois,
soies blanches, virole acier
laitonnes, largeur 50 cm
Marteau Rivoir                               1.20              120              144           18             22             34              41
Euanché, 350 gr
Tournevis pour vis à fente                   1.20              120              144           18             22             34              41
Manche bois, 100 x 6,5
Pince Multiprise                             2.50              120              300           18             45             34              85
Kodèle à crémaillère, chromEe,
longueur:  240 um
Clé & Molette                                2.50              120              300           18             45             34              85            _              -                   X
Acier ultra vanadium, traité                                                                                                                                                               o i
haute résistance, chromE,                                                                                                                                                                 o -
tête polie
Longueur:  250 mm
Trousses à outils et visserie                7.50                               -            -              -                             -             3.500         26,250
Total Mobilier et Equipement
Scolaire                                                                10,712                        1,595                         3.040                         26,250         41,597
Vehicules
Vebicules 4x4 à essence 8 places            5.600                                                                            1           5,600               1         5.600
Vehicules utilitaires pick-up               3,900                                                                            1           3.900
Vehicules break/12 cv                       4,200                                                                                         -                  1         4,200
Total Vehicules                                                                                                                      9,500                          9,800          19,300



oe7lo  1RrlIM    AIID ECUtMmT LIST Mo COsILIsTK BT CObT DW EOILt   ET ET tPIIttT DE MU
(ta CFA? OCOten 000 fFpA)
Dir. of Studjes, 14o
Resourceaata  Plu,og            ?edagocal lastituta            R%..Dep. InspectoTate         Dit. of School Constructtoa           project liat             Te«tbcie/
DSR                           Imam                    Inspectioo5 Ret.Dep.                     DCŒS                     Bureau Protect         Mi-.6la Scolatres
Itea                    Unit Colt      No. of tUtt.    Total Coat       No. of UnitU    Total Coat    No. of lUatU    Total Cot         So. of  nit.    Total Colt   No. of Unita   Total Cost         Total Colt      Total Colt
Noenclature               rix à l'Uanté       Ootts         Coat Total         unité.       COd  Total        Unttés        Coût Total         Unités        CoOt Total      tnités       CoCt Total       Coet Total       Coat Total
C      R
Bureu 1/2  ltnîstre (t caisson)         90                                                                               120           10,800                  3           270                                                           11.070
Birexu mnistre                         130                2               260             20              2,600                                                                           3              3S0           390                3,640
Burexu Sécriatre avec r"tour           125                                                 8              1,000                                                                                                        250                1,250
lmt*io1  de Burae                       70                4               280             20              1,400                                                                          3               210           420                2,310
Chaise Dactylo                         35                                                  a                280                                                                                                         70                  350
Chaise Simple Visiteur                  25               28               700              3                 75          200            S,000          2       3           175           6               150           300                6,350
Chaise Coaférance tptlable               7.5                                              62               465                                                                         2I                112             -                  577
A6ire t9tallique
120W0t*98 ce                          11                4               460              7               805           100           11,500          6       3         1,035           1               115           575               14,490
Armoire à Claets (10 cas«
36x25 c)                               45                3               135              3               135            41            1,845          3       5           770                                         135                2,520
Table Conférence 120x0 t                42                2                84             50              2,100                                                                           3              126            42                2,352
Table Prof e.aor                        25                                                 1                 25                                                                                                         25                   50
Table à Dessin 150*90,
Apparetl Desstn, Tabouret
et Desserte                           315                                                                                                             1                   315                                                             31t
table de Coup 20Dx90                    85                                                                                                             1                    eS                                                              aS
Table Blête 70x50                       tS                                                50                750                                                                                                                             750
Xueble à Plens (CaI»
vertical) 100Qr240*                   320                                                                                                             l       3         1,280                                                            1.2S _
meuble _naogt (CI&aa
horiotal) 143xlO0                     385                                                 1                                                                                                                                                3e '
Tableau Affichaga 120*120               35                1                ?5                               uSS                                        1       3           140                                                              173
2xblteu Conférence (paper board)        75                                                                                                             1                    75                            75                                150
lmtoS pour lich    en T                 35
Planning I Gouttières                  165                                                 B             1,320                                                                                                                            1,320
ticbler                                 48                5               240              *               192                                                                                                                              432
Rayaafs MétallIqu (le
mètre tLiare                           eS                                                41              3,485                                       1S                 1,275           6               $10                              S,27n
tableau Cofreace sur Chevalet           75                1                75              1                 75                                                                                                                            1I0
Bam à toulettea
(Dossiers Boapeda)                     60                                                                                41            2,460          3       3          3MO                                                            1,820
Lae DOalcaateur                         18                                                                                                             2                    36                                                               36
C= ar à Dossiers 8supdu                 90                2               ion              1                90                                                                                                         270                  540
Table  Mal Flce                        120                4               480              7               S40                                                                                                                            1,320
Placards                                06                                                                                                                                                                         t30,380              1304380
Total  rs,ttet
Total Mobilier                                                       2,929                            16,022                        31.M05                            S,266                         1,608       132,032              190,3U2
le
C: Ceatral lavel/alvea



Dit. of Stodies, Dumie
Resource Md Pl.onis            Pedetogicet Institute          l../Uep. Iospectorstes         Dfr. of Sehool C«tructiom             Project Unit              Tcxtbooktl
1mW                            INn                     Inspecticc  %./Dey.                       DC25                     Bureau Prolect           sne1s Scolair
lt                       ntoit Cont     go. of USit.    Total Coet       tto. of untta    Total Coet    lIo. of Unité    Total Coct        gIo. of Uiite    Total Cost   li. of niite    Total Ccst        Total Cot       Total Coet
uletur                    Prix à l'Unitt      tltée         CoOt Total         Untté.        CoOt Total         Unités        CoOt Total         licités       Coût Total       Unités       CoQt Total       CoOt Total       CoQt Total
C       R
1iedil   à Caleuler de bure.
( 2f1nte,  12 *biffres)                  110              5               550              2                 110            ô2            9,020           1                   110                                    2    220           10,010,000
calculatrice Scientifique
(10 chiffres)                             80              5               400                                               41           20,5G0           1       3           4'.0                                                         66,000
Machine à Ecrn  etctriqu                  500              2              1,000                              5I  S                                                                          ISO                      2 1,000             231,5O,000
12rhe à ftrire Mécenique                  250                                                S              1,250                                                                                                                          1,250,CO
Graveur de Ste«cilt                       600                                                1                600                                                                                                                            600,GOC
Duoplicateur à Bacre                      725                                                2              1,450                                                                                             725                         31,9CO,GOD
Titeusr de Pl   ai d
Accessoires                            3,40D                                                                                                              1                 3W1                                                           3,
ehine à Purfor r et e
ROlier                                   165                                                                                                              1                   165                                                           165l00
MIatériel DOsa  <1 botte
Otrl, 1 botte coup,
règle, p2t0lets
rqporteur et etyloeise)                  150                                                                                                              2                   3500                                                          3D,O
Té,do6ite et Trépted                                                                                                                                                           P
utvea de Charr ier
Coffret ce Trépied                                                                                                                                                            Pn 
Pl cbett. de 0émtre                                                                                                                                                            Pm 
Of tet de hree
6cceeotre  et Potione                  5.5                                                  1              SSGG                                                                                                                           5,50D,OCG
Armoire Pour Coervtion
des Stucil                              130                                                 2                260                                                                                                                            260,0D0
pbotocpw  papietr                                                                                                                                                                                           1,750
Ordi,irt et Néductice                  1,750                                                1              1,750                                                                            1                          1 1,75D            5,250,000
Rétropojecteur et Projecteur              600                                                1                6G0                                          1                   600                                                         1,200,000
2er.n de Projectric  d1.b2                 90                                                1                 90                                          1                    90                                                          1lS,OCO
4prel Photos 2hi36 S
dntofcou                                 120                                                1                120                                                                                                                            120,00O
neidtcpuoe 220v et
Pilé. 1.5.                               175                                                1                175                                                                                                                            175,000
Vidldocope  Ftatif et
àece tedO                              1,700                                                1              1,700                                                                                                                          1,70D,OCO
CIdt2e_tr 1.5 eV
(2000 M1UM)                             2002                             400                                                                    4                           800 10                       2.0O0            1 200          35,60,000
Bofie Secourute                            12
ut de Cp et Iatbte«i
Cerdiec                                   40                                                l                150                                                  3            120                                                          270,00Q
mlmtqueire 11le CpAi,g                     30                                                                                                                      3             90                                                           90.000
Csacilre                                   12                                                                                                                      3             36                                                           36,MO0
Bouteille lolste                           6                                                                                                                      3             16                                                           le,=eo
Jerris.                                    10                                                                                                                      6             60
La"poàOcm                                  le                                                                                                                      2             30                                                           3:
RCaud à Gu                                 10                                                                                                                      3             30                                                           30,000j3
Vmotileur                                  75                                                                                                                                                                            3 225
Sosie.nt SubotalY
Sous-Total t    uiO« t                                               2.350                             1.251                                                               J365                         4.975         3,395           90,585,000 



Dit. of Studite, ua
leacurcea M*d piano.           Pa mogtcal Xnstitt             RPA./Iap. lna tor             Dir. of Scbooi Coentrettion          Projeet Unit             Teatb,ookI
MW                            xilUDm                  XnDettm  Ru./pop.            _           D CCS                   t = proheat             Na 1al  Scolair
Item                    Vn4t Coèt      so. of lunitt    Tota Coat       No. of Unitt    Total Coet    go. of utite    Total Cost        No. of Units    Total Coat   lo. of UnJit   Total Coat        rotal cot        Totl coat
1ommiatq-»         Prfl  à I'Uitf       Ilpité.       Coet Total         Unit"         Cout lota        unité         Colt Total         Unt.          Colt Total      Unité6       Colt Total      Colt Toal        Colt Total
alite Csz arte.                         0.05                                                                                                        5.0O                    250                                                           250
Claaura à A.                             2.6                                                                                                           50                    DO                                                            lu
Douter. Cartot  à Saeslaa                1.7                                                                                                          200                   3M0 o60
Doi        pmf'   r 1 2 0D4te POMr
alom  tiroir                            2.4 1t200                                                                                                                           40
Tuf"t de           n
R           r                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,0;0                                                                             1.oaeD
Do, var l                                  Fo ôOD                                                                                                                                                                                          ôDD
Docatit Petit Matériel                 540                                                                                                                 6    3          4,S60                                                         4,6*0
matériel Into  tiqo                        P                                                                500                                                            2,000                       2,5C0 50
091-t l Dtv*                                                                                        U1,300                                                            S,OSO                       2,YD                             21,50
tom-total squivemc-25.555                                                                                                                                            14,425                       7.475
2.50                                                                                                                                                           66,80
IUlanfxtmuoe
V&SCUeO 4* à Saue. 8
Plu"00                                S,600                                               1              5,600           27           151,200                                           2            11,200                          l6,000
hice  Utilitaire pItck-I               3,$0D                                                                                                                                                                                             ô,40D
Véhicula de Liaio  5ev                 2,10D                                                                                                                    3          6,00                                     1  2,DDD            33,600
Vaijele sra*  I 12 eV                  4,200              2             8,400              2             8,400                                          2                  8,400         2             8,400
car 30 Pacea Daasel                    9,200
Conlo. 4 ROMluba tries                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
9r flmbé                             12,00X
Notocyoletté (2 te>) et
coanue                                 2M0                                                                               20             4,000          1       3            Mo0                                                         4,8CO
btta Vbla/                                                                                           14.000                                                                                        19.6
soue-out vélu,                                                      8.40                                                           135.200                                                                          2,1C0          214
Ibu*n1. Diwar et
Vdbicole                                                           10,710                            39,551                        214,441                            2S,925                      27,075            5,415          327,245
C .  Central leveltvue  Cetral
R -   1 I  lavel/inh,u  ré9toul
Mdre      01   t   1986



Pridmat waUion Dwveloent
Dme cm
<intlat&o  betum  wprdiml ud >roJact
start allocad to prire  ontiaUmnies)
PU.T COST s0m
(FCFA  i(llion>                         CM  Iillian)
t Total                             t Total
Z Foreigs  am                          Foreign  am
Local  For"i   tobl  Ex        e  Costs  Loral Forein Totsl Eha     Cost
_=                  _      _ 3   ==    _   _3                  =    3  _
t. DEVeL~    OF *POS   1         IN8 EIMT1   CUI    CWACITY
1e STRENIBTIN8S DIRECTITE OF RESEARK AI RPMUN                                      121.71  305.44  427.15        72      8  0.34   0.85 1.19          72      8
2, NIIiZII SMCNL REPLACET IIEES K  / CONSTR. flSITU1ES
DELMOPING FACILITY PLANN  AS %WETIm                                              29.72  142.42  172.14        83       3  0.08   0.40 0.48         83      3
REMILITATIIIN 100 CLISSES                                                       8O.7?   107.97  188,76       57      4  0.22   0.30  0.52         57      4
PRCTtE mItINe   SYSTEN                                                           55.27  123.58  178.85        69       3  0.15   0.34 0.50         6?      3
ConSTRITIIN 50 CLASSES                                                          135.52  208.46  344.18        61       6  0.38   0.58 0.96         61      6
COSTR ION 175 CLAMSES                                                           408*77  205.80  614.57        33      Il  1.14   0.57 1.71         33      il
CoNSTRTION 175 CLASSES                                                          408.28  199.65  607.93        33      Il  1.13   0.55  1.69        33      il
Sub-Total NININIZINS SmL  ECoN  mm Z CS. ENIT S                                  1*118*35  988.08 2.106.43       47     39  3.11   2.74 5.85          47     39
3. DEWPIIS PROJmmT CIDIIIATI  CAWCITY                                              216.11   493.00  709.11       70      13  0.60   1.37  1.97        70     13
Sb-Total DEPI1T OF  1N116 s  ETINO s XESImTURE CRL Cé ITr                           1456.17 1*786.52 3,242,69      55     60  4.04    4.96  9.01       55      60
8. WWNSNT OF TEACIER EFFECtlZVOEESS M  EFFICIENCY OF SMiL        1C
1. STRENSTIENtIN  PEDGSICAL IISTITUTE                                              150.21  586.0?  73.28         80     14  0.42   1.63 2.05          80     14
2. STRENOTIHENINB SCHODL INSPECI:TTES                                              153.49  522.04  675.53        77      13  0.43  145  1.88         77     13
3. PltOYISI0N OF TRXBOOS MS TEAER SUItES                                           164.12  550.52  714.64        77     13  0.46   1.53  1.99         77     13
Sub-Total IJ    OEF T AE  EfFECtIUEESS M  EFFIMCENCT OF SCNN. ISECTONS               467?831 6SB.62 2,126.45        78     40  1.30   4.61 5.91          78     40
Total DASELINE COSTS                                                                  1*924.00 3.445.14 5#369.14     64    100  5.34   9.57 14.91         64    100
Phuical Conti.mncin                                                                  119626  108.31  227.57        48      4  0.33   0.30 0.63          48      4
hric Catinlsnces                                                                     629,01  832.211.461.22        57     27  1.75   2.31 4.06          57     27
Total PGECt COSTS                                                                     2.672.28 4,385.  7?.057.93      62    131  7.42  12.18 19.61        62    131
_ =rOs=                                                   =  =  ==
~~____    __________                                                                                                      _z___  
Sotm.r 8S 19B6 16:23                                                                                                                                                                    G



P,114V  E*xlso.t  #1mU40t
(infltion toel'Oda #"Paiui a4 >oaiett
sorta  alloct#6l ta me*f 0OOOI~iesOC60
OEVB~    OF fL411MINS , SUDSEM* . M     InCIBI&50 10ISftC?lU
310(26130300   00000*140                                      0(000*010                       -----O-----eailvEm    An00,1
OIICOTMATC M t60IUTY  80(007100                                 P00ACT     010(00110      or Sm(0104   90013 MCo..onco
91.1011     0080103    108 0.610      018108       0.60(      17501CLAM0  17501.LA1S    C6O0ITT      tinTiTuIt  130000010  10081384010        TOta       %      .m1l
2. 0E0881 00810401                                0.96.00    M2.677.92  60.148.05       15.56.36   50,447.27   54.447.27           -     222.789.40    57.974.03       2,I57.6t  690.894.02  10.0 60.00.40
LAM.30 50001cS--                                                                 -      67.000.00  234.500.00  234.500.00          -             --                              53.00.00  10.0 53.60.00
0.jI-Totto  CIVIL. 0000                               8.6.10    121,677.9   60.1t48,O5     121,.L5.6   426.148.10  426,140.18          -     223.709.40    57,974.OZ       2,157.60 1.450,047.09  10.0 145.049.61
I.030.                                 2.737.02    4.950.25      4.603,64         -       4.543.02   15.90.57   15.90.57      1.589.35     05,085.à1    29.75.95              -   95,106.A2  10.0  9.510.68
2. 00824                                                        25.561.18                23,061.64   03,522.73   83,52.73                                             t  29.605.84  34.831   1.  34.600.20
566b-Ttala FM881U1                       2,M5.02      4,95.35      30.101.07         -      28.406.66   99.422.30   99.423.30    1,509.35     15.08.65     29,757.95     129,605.84  441,209.94 10.0 44,118.99
C. COIPfOM  f 91111.
I. 0001910                             3,060,9    13,581,90      2,462.34  49,421.03      1.440.45    5.006.56    5.069.56    4,604.25     13.42.2M     55.70.01        4.815.13  160.028M0  10.0 16.402.80
Z. 001,001.01       7.054.55    19.547.01     8.002.12   ~~~~9.162,64                                      1  - 2,327,27  13.0,91I   145,122.00      1.963.64  223.940.05 10.0 L2.394.81
0t.4.ToAl 0000080   WI 0010.0            11,714.94    33.124,04    11.745.45  50.59545       1.440.45    5,069.56    5,069.56    22.011.53    26.512.02    20090.79        6,778.77  312.76.0  00.0 20.307.61
0. 900100(
1. t1610-                                                --                       --                        -----                                                     271.174,44   27.174.44  0.0      0.00               u
2. 910533                                                                         .---                                                                                 81167    io00%,13.7   0,0       0.00
566-Total OrtIT00                               -                                                                                                                         5.7,7 451,371.17  0.0           0.00
E. SMCI21.S01SER90005
1. 583  TM003 C65.711.22    44.20.00                             9.720.00   8.360,00     45.560.00   19.440.00   15,120.00   243200.00     6.2461.05    53.40.00       27.000.00   604,532,27  0.0     0,00
2. LM43 TM91 cm4                     176,040.00           -                               6.560.00   36.000.00   36.000.00   122.840.00    17.040.00                   4 4.00.62   710,285.61  0.0     0.00
&.6-lotal 590016.001089103              241.751.2    44.280.00      9.720,00  19.360.0     133.920.00   05.440.00   510.l000   376.040,00    Z28,101.05    52,480000      92.005.61 1-ZI4.817.88  0.0     0.10
1. 90.1.0500                          42,136.04    14.904,00                      -       5,400.00                                        137,08.00      40.4100.00    10.000.00   !2,.50O.4   0.      0.02
2. 0000301 3011.850?                               4.150.90            -                 13.067.00                      -     5,936.20                          -                    -612      .0      7.00
5. OOOmio0TICOIT0315-                                                                -                      -                 91270.50            -             -         693.00    9.91M.50  C.0      0.00
4* .0.  10610030n                    101,416,00    8.000.00                14.400.00      11.540.00                     --                  22.000.00    44.00.00       3.200.00   11?4,5%4.00  7.0    0.00
0.b-Tota 1041810                        1434552.04    27.062,00           -14.400.00        50.115.00                      -    15,214.70    149.000.00    05.400.00      14,69.0     C021O     0.0       0.00
Total 0ES(STN  CmmT                       39.776,02   110,121,19    175.32.19  151,543.51     115.646.n   506.081.0   soi.760.0    415.05.58    654,168.92    427.516.69   696.410.99 4,:.6.9 5.0227566.21
Il. RCRf Mi
A. IOCOE0(011 0080710 098I101           27,377.32    54.014.62    133434.01  27.346,20     28.516.36   20.400.96   26.166.23    ,29,50.72    02.109.28    248.015.92     18.22.75   946,172-31I  M.      0.00
Tota 0300008  CUTI                         27.37.32    34.016.62     13.434.03   27.3146.20    28.536.36   28.480.96   26.166.23   M0.250.72    82.009.30    248.015.92     18.229.75   8441.172..   0.0     0.00
Tota 06581.180005                          427.153.34   t72.137.81    108,760,00 178.0?. 81    344.103.09  614.570.00  607,927.27   709,006.20    736,278,31    635.532.61  724,644174 5.26".140.27   4,2 227.566.21
fl..ao,a Cmet,o*ocw                       1.447.28     4,677,02     06.56.52  10,074.17      15.L61.17   53.064,00   52.064,1 tg   .460.09     26lu.5.9     28462.67       13.854.22   Z.562    0.0        0.00
Place contjauocmu                        7S.73.40    34.500,65     42,768,34  49.08.28       52.094.40  216.209.23  606.097.03   266,019,68    163.292.83    140.126.93   16.7 .00.461,224.39  4,5  65.90.48                   j.
otal PROJE01CUT MM07.229.09   211.124.V7    249,.00,6 240.613.44                               412.228.74  083.43.33  967.88920   930.386.06    926.010.92    844.52221     096.673.04  1'.557.1.01  4.2 293.476.69
Fo,at1 E0..dw                           353,809947   173.378,49    140.494.66 165.08.54     244.068.09  295669   316.1955.      631.1084.1    722 ,274.74    654.13.34    689.17s.e3 9.28r5.54.54  2.1 135.05.00
01,t.668 8. 1986 163.22



Local trxcl.                                                                                                    Local (Exel. b<it1ai li.  OUfi.  f lt. I gt ,to.cm
For. cxcb    Tom,    Tafl  Total  t, £nt.    arff t ,t aicT" ta  l. Deoon       lem'taTtl%>.Lb                              &I        a          "       Pta.U. D     a
nanim cm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ara.r ui0001
1.  ILD06MTM S  75,1O.    1.7r.c      31060.0   llm.l   I.M.0                    1sm21Ispje 46O 28                        251r.6       151.71 1--56.4                4XM.2          4-A .100P>.
i. ooe om
î. ML1   TOIt                      115o.81.0?  213718.10      - 46303.102.  1>2695810    21,1lO79.70       31.3608.1  10.123.60   46«.99.2s         12.6l7.96   .0517? l'.6.440.74                             4"N.93.7     40#.34 99
2.-T WO.M luPT                       0.353    915060.18994.0   321,M.5    22.85.06                          40,0109.4   916346.7    90,444'28.05.7   421440.465               31.,.21.54      -  8093.54.2        5.9401.21   76.012.0
3. m.080                           143041.5 16,996.00             536o.0.001M1    53,600.00                5.002.80  2S02.        4161.65.7         2139.052,   19.u0    003,45.57          -   15.2513.9      73.0.05      7.10ud.53
8*Tou CVM=     IS                     90.19.5   M5#906             140496.09  49419.55   15280               r 14.84.1 169.7403    5.299              521,03.38 '2.55    1.952..                24165.5704      12ks.4160    1%924.1600
D. 8068110
1. 681flB6                        285.104.44   101100         - 1.106.04       0.015      1.1.1             .50 60 23.209.        2.578          -   29,967.1   116,78156    1398.9          - 3.9.69          1187.4         1.713
2. OaluiV                          1228195.92 23.0.0           - 4.031 1.295             211.7             360.28oW.7964    60M3*096             -  8367.46-  1335.9874?    9298.34.0        -  40.758    44.0990            400.290.99
1.i-Totaî 900111K                    21',3.59.4 23282                 4.0.4 2.97            22,30.0           44,18,9  6.00.        2650.20.       -  12.046        01,2,697  932.2150             à  014.923.5   5.0012        PNO01265
C. SPC=I$ 1HILC
2. UlILS25123.94.5                                    -       -22.4.5 22340                              - 27.394,82 35,115,72   0.7                 39495.72   2-01.218.58    140.7         -  28,5.51        29.59.4       254.9416
2..Tta LM IUN Ii cm  IfE            636,6,100   72.M9.0         -03tî0 6.00          001,69.62-38,9761   0.18.1                        .1616      -   74,80.28 .47  2.8',U.94   922.95.3      -  496.1589    45.154           451W.59.5
I. 892120                          271.174.4      2614       0 -  7721.2744                                            6840    M0467,8904.07   303,000.52                                    -      130.06.3           -       .60.151 
2. 00ILIShll                       205.95.9    9,75,0.0           10,19.7_                               -2,477                   20289.30           484.02511    3636        1.25.2101      -    2 225.21.7        0.00     12120,93.
8*-Lmotal 0100                      36303   045.00.00              194561.37.7        -                                05317    20*.28,3              145641.89   ua..î          .290,1           3 577.90122        0.0      5776.901
1. -Tou   TCoA100                   42.15,27  279.380.00           .00.5316.27                                         42-  -  6.0609    52.045,72    99135 .4766    50.8.     3.2.7u .408.                         -0.00     74023.4008
A. 1.00WA 100    I tUS     iwr     638.25.6   l72~4.000            M6 9720.2856                                       2  06.739.53   247,86.75    -1826151.47  M728,64.9    991.5625          -    C,828.57.0         .0         .4
1'*4oU1~tt1tIT 689810$     1.0345.436.04  219.94,00     - 1u.314.817,0         -          -       ..4   -MU62  1.210.77  7101.907.5         14125448.12 î237.654.54   33.8.8             .568.95.00     09-7.00   2.534956.80
Sttr ,  TRAI6lI   9



Tian Ikm   kw k   n
km u
stai aloata  taiul cad nOrias>
mw  s_U UfVoe
k. Cod              Pin CstI raels    l nu Cw4Uumuwl                        Tota loti. ci.         ftu dal   Coas t
.-     -    -                 [B-                        -- -            -   -                  Cau.fs   Prie
total                     tcd                        aL                        tota                 Prile Cii. C.,o
Pot. (bEcl. ki. a         For.  EiUX. Ib  t          For. (I. lbia  a        Ft. OEaI.  itu     a      on  ai  cl   am
tab. tom) Tas  Tl   £ib. Toms  tem.   total bb Tas) t                    Total £xh. T as  Tom   Toa         Ce        Costa
4. cm om
I. OMMJNS IA0mu                   0.54  0.33        - 0.07  0.o5  0.03        - 0.0   0.22  0.13         - 0.35  042  0.49         - 1.31         0.12     149
2.           l COl1S              0.04  0.3         - 1.6   0.04  0.00        - 0.17  025  0.3           - 0.1  1.10  t1.1         - 2.34         0.21     2.13
;. um  SEe                           -  1.49        -t.         -  0.15       -0.15       -  o.5?        - 0.59         2.43       - 242          0.20     2.03
9*-0ota  cIL MM                      1.3   2.5         - 4.03  0.14  0.26        - 0      0.47  0.90        - 1.45  1.99  3-.S        - 5.0          0-53     S.J4
a. FEi
1. am                             0.24  0.03        - 0.26  O002  0.00        -  .03   0.06  0.01        - 0.07  042   0.04        - 036          0.03     0.33
2. am                             0.37  0.59        -         .96  0.4  0.06  - 0.10  0.11  0.10         - 0.29  0.52  0.83        - 1.35         0.42     1.22
$*-Toal FRI1                         o06   0.62       - 1.23  0.06  0.06         - 0.12  0.1   0.10       - 0.36  0.U4  0.7          - 1.71         0.16     1.m
c. E1 10  7 muC
1. E_4?i                          0.40  0.5         -  .4   0.04  0.00        - 0.    010  b .0          - 0-11  0.9   0.06        - 0.0         0o05      0.50
2. w3lCM                          0.62              - 0.62  0.06      -       - 0.06  0.10               - 0.10  070       -       - 0.78         0.07     0.71
t-Toal EMMIT i   ICE30               1.02  0.05       - 107  0.10  0.00             0.11  0.20  0.01        - 0.21   .3   0.06        - 1.38         .13      1.25
a. tXtwoi
1 -98                             0-75      -       -075        -     -       -    -0.a1         -       -0.a0.97          -       -0.97             -     O.7"
2.RILU S                           04.29  0.21         0.5      -     -       -    -   .0   0.06         - 0.14  0.7  0.26          -0.64            -     0.44
$*-Total 1Em10                       1.es  0.a         - 1.25     -      -       -    -  0.29  0.06         - 0.35  1.34  0.26        - 1.0             -     1.60
E. 11ECMIT SERn8E89
1. un  lm  Ch                     1.10  0.50          1.68      -     -       -    -  0.3  0.14          - 08  1.41  0.            - 206             -     2.06
2. LM 8TMCm                        1.77  0.20       - 1.97      -     -       -    -  0.25  0.0e         - 0.33  2.02  0.28        - 2.30            -     2.30
tu-Ton   U 9U.ST CmoE                2.95  070        - 3.68     -      -       -    -  0.48  0.22         - 0.71  3.44  0.92        - 4.36           -      4.6
F. 1II
1. FELIM                          070       -       - o.7       - -   -             -  0.12      -       - 0.12  0.82      -          0.82           -     0.92
2. U8L  .LaOsP                       -  0.06        - 0.06      -     -       -    -      -  0.01        - 0.01      -  0.07       - 0.7             -     0.07
3. oflflS1ttS                        -  0.03        -0.03       -  -      -         -     -0.0           -001        -  0.03       -0.03             -     0.43
4.LM       t IMIUI                       0 0.54       0.4       -     -       -    -      -  03           0.13 -        0.67       -0.a              -     e.a
?tu-Total ?lm                        0.70  0.63        - 1.33     -      -       -    -  0.12  0.14        - 0.26  0.82  079          - 1.60           -      1.0
T     ot al Dn i   om                   7.71  4.0        - 12.56  0.30  0.33        - 0.43  1.74  1.60        - 3.33  9.75  6.78         -16.53        0.2    u5.71
It. EOl  cuS?[1
A. 1    TL OMtiS EDEIS E            1.96  0,49        - 2.35      -     -       -    -  0.57  0.15         - 0.3  243  0A4           - 3Log            -     3.Sm
totd?iKCEN C S                          1.06  0.49       - 2.35      -     -        -    -  o07  0.15         - 0.3  2.43  0.64          - 3.04           -     30
tal                                      9.57  S4         - 14.91  0.30  0.33        - 0.43  2.31  1.75        - 4.06  2.18  7,42         - 19.61       0.2    10.79
Sutoor  S. 1906 16U0



S8s. cal
<tfist13to bet.oeff w,,i14 2nd Pnoet.
st.rt allocated to pritc  cticrawies)
PvoJ,ct ZPoopots bv Yarq
T%tah It udinti COêti.dsCie$                                ToUlo Is ncludXa Cotrtidencles
(rA Ibillo)                                                  CMS millzon)
l'm      lm      l9m9            1991  l99m   1993  1994  Toul   :987 1988 189  1990  19I:  lV!   1993 1994 Toul
A. DEVELOIEWNT OF PLAIIN6 * BUDGET116 * EXllDIME COlk1 0A04C0V
1. STRENOSTHEMI<tG DRCCTORATC OF IIESOAROND 0 ' tAWNSG                               203.51  185.81    46.80   60.11   6-12  4-38  0.30 0.31  507.34  e.s9  0.52 0.13  0.:.  3.02  0.01  0.00  o.00  1.41
2. MImIMIz:NI sC0   RFtuC£1«NT #&t1. .' SON.TR. CtIIITURES
DEaoLaPloxt CACI-'1   I     EANIIINSMr  rotn IN3                              -   103.82   41.92   24.04   13.45  14.18  11-77  1.05  1.09   21L.32     -29  0.12 0.J' 1.04  0.04  O.J3  0.00  0.00 0.59
1.3: CLA=CS                                                          27.69  107.01  I14,39         -      -     -    -          249.09  ?.08 .7 3 .'                  - -   -   -   -   0,69
PC.7Vt11~7EN' '.t 1?4CNAE IYSTEN                                                   30.08   51.58   59.54   99.42        -      -    -         24061  §.3S  3. -4 0o.1 '.28    -    -    -    - 0.67
CN; R; 10/18  50 CLASSES                                                        206.97  205.27         -        -     -      -    -    -  412.24  '. 57  J.S;    -       -                         1.15
COSTR%CTION 175 CLASSES                                                             0.0         -  355.31   493.5S  17.11  17.79     -    -  883.84  D.70         0.99  1.37  0.5  0.05    -        2.46
CvSTR<4T10  175 CLASSES                                                                -        -        -       - 418.38 549.51     -    -  967.89      -        -        -  1.16  1.5           - 2.69
Sub-1atal fDISIil7.ZINS St0l0  REPLACEIIET tErDE I CONSTR. EX0D91ITURES              368.60  405.78  553.2B   606.44 449.68 579.07 1.05  1.09 2*965,00  102  1.13  1.54  1.68  1.25  ..i1  0.00 0.00  8.24
3. DEVELOP1NS PROJECT COORODINAT1N C4PACIIY                                          186.S5   170.38   125.41   136.77 131.10  57.85 59.10 50-92   918.39  0.52  0.47  C.35  D.3S 0.36  0.16  0.16  0.14  2.55
Sub-Total tfVEL8PfENT Of PLAMI6   . EtUSETIN3 * EXPENDITURE CONTROL CAPACIIT           758,9   761.96   725.49   803.33 586.89 641.31 60-45 52-33 4J390.72  2.1t 2.12  2.02  2.23  1.63  1.78  0.17 0.15 12.20
B. DIrWEftENT OF TFAR CFrECTIUcHcss 4ND CFFVICICNCY OF SvH10  I1SJCTgr*
1. STRENOTIIIN1O PCDA6ICAL INS.TITLITr                                               211,7e7  360.12   18b634   110.26  24.96   8.30  7.97  8.29   *26.01  0.61  1.00 0.52  0.31  0.07 0.02  0.02 0-02 2.57
2. STRE11STIENIN6 $CM0L I1lCTORATCS                                                  350.82   212.49   111.97    96.64  59.64   4.15  4.32  4.49  844.52  p.77  0.59 0.31 0.27  0.17  0.01  0.01 0.01  2.35
3. PROJ.SIClt 8f tE0TDt0S  AND TCAvUER  GUIDES                                      150.85   30G81   215.87   274.09   0.49  0.50  0.53  0.55   896.67  0.A2 0.84  0.60  8.62  0.00  0.00 0.00  0.00 2.49
Sub-Total IP0MEKNE1  O  TCACM  CVrECTIENESS  1 EFrrCIiNCo Or SOCL INOCT3RS              721,43  076.42   514.1?  430.99  85.08  12S96 12.82 13.33 2t667.21  2.00 2.43  1.43  1.20 0,24  0.04  0.04  004  7.-41
Total PR.CJCT CCSTS                                                                     1.480.40 163.38 1.239.6  1.234.32 671.98 654.27 73.27 65.66 7*057.93  4.11  4.55  3.44  3.43  1.37  1.82  0.20 0.18 19.61
--                 - ---- -----  -----------------  ---------0=------     ----    ----  ----                                                                        0  2 ---
Se,tner 8. 1986 16122



.fa1nb,tassç  appaisul M promect
ellta1ocawte 1 pflcS cOOtIORCes?
9,ar*. *oeomts 6w Yenr
<0374 '000                                                               .06%illillas
IV.        lrn         î9o9        1990       rnî       1992     arn      199n      3101      î,o' I98  1989 arn  arn  Mr  lmn  arn  Tta
A. Cz-. 4Mo
-  J2D18IATCOiALs              19,15?.66   30.693.77   02.031.63  117,08.3  '2.643.33 128,465,49       -            470.082,24  0.05 0.09 0.23 0.33 0.2. 0.36            - 1.31
2. N1(RM. CNITRACT                   0.21.51  2629237.02   :I05.9    17,.16 36t764.91 50,90.68                        -  84.4042.26  0.02  0.73 8.83 0.52 0.10 0.14           - 2.34
3, uNE 181030                       32,'4'.16   52,460.94  140.206.19  200P124.t2 158,343.50 21ebS69.66      -        -  TO451.57  0.09 0.15 0.39 0.56 0.44 0.61                 2.23
106-Total 4IQIL NE%                    60*828.39  345.391.73  519.290.73  504,297.60 Z87*'5l.79 399,05.02      -         -2,116.526.00  0.17 0.96  1.44 1.40 0.80  1.11             sa.0
8. FINIUE
i. GEUM.                            41.237.90   aO,33.27  Zr,156.83   22.818.98 10A90.09 15.140.63          -             30,504.6t  0.11 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.03 0.04       -    - 0.36
2. 181(1                            92.442.96  118,231.60   67,M7.66   71,278.95 56,39.79 78.204.93                   -  484.32R.89  0.26 0.33 0.49 0.20 0.16 0.22            - 1.35
5.6,-Total FI0IIlK                    1331680.85  136.566.87   8?,82.49   N0097.93 67.3e4.81  93.353.56                     4t 64,913,58  0.37 0.38 0.25 0,26 0.19 0.26       -    1.71
C. EUIPI0I  f WIIIL.
1, C0011(N                          68i604.42   47,058.01   344.64'8   55.229.54  4.161.20  5>514.34                  -  215b215.39  0419 0.13 t.10 0.15 0.01 0.02       - -    0.60
2. 1861012                         182.467.49   SOt293.01   10,957.77    7.820.32        -         -         -           201.53.58  0.51 0.22 0.03 0,02          -    -    -    0.78
&0b-total M"EII'(T / 111C1.           251,072.11  127,351.01   45,605.45   63.049,85  4,161.20  %,514.34       -        -  496,753.97  0.70 0.35 0.13 0.18 0.01 0.02        -       1,38
1. 101011ie                                 -   80,427.79  120,371,93  147.268.79        -         -        -            38060.51       - 0.22 0.33 0.41    -    -    -       -0,97-
2. M&IIII11N                                -   64.133.59   91.414.55   73,395.42                  - -       -            =28943.75     - 0.18 0.25 0.20         -    -          0.64
9.6,-Total TEXTIO1S-  144,561.37  211J.7864    220,664.40                                   -         -        - -          577.012.26     - 0.40 0.59 0.61           -     - -     1.60
f. MIPCCM.S  188020
1. MO1T TOR CMS                    25,66.46  103231.21   89,83.09   84.657,81 86,426.40  18.471.26 10.844.42 12,278,19  740,408.91  0.71 0.51 0.25 0.24 0.24 0,05 8,03 0,03 2.06
2. LMU TM1 cous                    419,8M054  30,8.76.40   22,82.69   24t438.50 25.081,85 26.013,12          -           88547.00  1.17 0.86 0.06 0,07 0,07 0,0          -    - 2.30
9,6-Tota SPECIMLIST Sf80118           675.562.00  492,017.61  112,664.78  109,096,30 112.200.32 45,284.38 10,844.42 11.278.19 1,6.956,U00  1.88 1.37 0.31 0.30 0.31 0.13 0,03 0.03 4.36
F. TR488106
il ItUSLOIF                        117.212,17  129.553.18   37,439.05   211241,71         -                               9.446.10  0.33 8.36 0.10 0.3    -         -    -     - 0.02
2. RE8IOI6L FELI.ONSIP              21,043.27    5.122.00           --                                       --           26,165.27  0.06 0.01…       …     …     …    ……- -    -0.07
3. oSER0TICII UISITS                 2.116.96    4,224.93    3,295.09    2.587.43         -                  -        - 12.225.21  0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01                         - 0.03
4. LOCA fl. n4110                   42.293.60   66.766.10   57,584.10   686161.68  6,594.42         -        -           241.399.90  0.12 0.19 0.16 8.19 0.02    -       -     - 0.67
9t,6-total TRaINN                     1902,6.99  205.666.21   98,319.03   81,99081  6,894,42                                %M  55236.40  0.51 0.57 0.27 0.23 0.02    -     -    -  1.60
touta 10(91800  COTS                   1.303,809.34 1.451.554.82 1,077,495.97 1,073,196.90 478.100.62 543.160.20 10.844.42 11,778,19 5.949.448.36  3.62 4.03 2,99 2,90  1.33 1.51 0.03 0.03 16.53
A. DgmNDT6 09884118 ElCISITUE        176,586.69  106,824.11  162.142.60  161.120.20 193t876.41 211I103.82 642,424.21 54.381.61 1,108.482.71  0.49 0.52  0.45 0.45 0.54 0.31  0.17 0.15 3.00
Total 88CJ0  COSTS                       1764.8669  186.824.11   2,162t5.60  l6tèl2*,20 193.076.41 111.103,02 62.424.21 54.381.61 1.068,42.71  0.49 0.52 0.45 0.45 0.54 0.31 0,17 0.15  3.08
Total 90051  COSTO                      1.480.396.83 1.630.37092 1.239661.65 1.234,317.09  71977.02 654,271.92 73.268.62 65W.65.0 7.057,931,07  4.11 4.55 3.44 3.43 1.87 1.82 8.20 0.18 19.61
ltu.8.1986 16.18



SE9L
P,riUrv Edéttion NWîOFUIM
Dmt cme
(inflation betun apvalul mid pject
strt alloateb puice coe4tinCies)
Finmrsmi  Plan bi Pro»et Convrts
(US Killionù
INWUTMIIML
DMWl9FIEO        EICAI           LCI.A   6o huIIT Or
ASSOCITION  I ENT  FUS WIIUIITIES             SoE           Total             La
For.  (Exol.  aUtU s 8
Asaunt  2      flubant   2      _somi  2     _ssaut  2   h_4   2    Exuh. it8)   Tam
A. UWLO'EET OF PLANINtG .  JDNETUS  EXPCtOMM   C&TRL CAPACITY
1. sTDGtIC   IIDIRCCTOTE OF  ECC1M  Pl tno                                          1.39 98.62        -       -      -    -    0.02  1.38   1.41   7.19  0.98   0.43           -
2. IUNIEZINS SCMM  OLC          MM  / COI, CIIT8UE
*YELWPINGB fACILITY PLMIUS All UOOETINB                                          0-54 92.28         -      -       -    -    0.05  7.72   0.59  2.99  0.48   041            -
USIMITATION 100 CLASES                                                             -    -       O.    8-.67      -    -    0.00 11.33   0.69  3.53  0.39   0.30           -
PEWT         IEAnINIEICE SnTIE                                                      -    -       0.61  91.05       -    -    00   8.15   0.67   3.41   0.46   0.21
0115TMRCTioN 50 ClAE                                                             0.9B 85.-4         -      -   0.12 10.33    0.05 4.02   1.15  5.84  0.68   0.47            -
cONsTUICl 175 CLAES                                                              1.85 75-29        -       -   0.47 19-25    0-13 5.46   2.46  12.52  0.82   1.63           -                °
coTUCTWIO   175 CLASSS                                                            2.02 75.09        -      -   0.52 19.52    0.14 5.38   2.69  13.71   0.8B   1.81          -
Sub-Tobl NINIMNIZI  SCL REPIL    OEDS  a CUSI EtFf0lTlKS                            5.39 65.44     1.23  14.90   1.12 13.55    0.50 6.11   8.24 42.01  3.71   4.53             -
3. aEuLCl PD.l CGIATIS CAPAIT                                                       2.33 91.37        -       -      -    -    0.22 8.63   2655  13.01   1.75   0.30
Subtotil DEIfIE T OF FillB  * 8EUOEITIB . EPNIhTUIE COUINE. CACITY                   9.11 74.70     123  10.46   1.12 9*15    0.74 6.09  12.20 62.21  6.44   5.75              -
8. ImWIT OF or EI   urscnwio  s          EFsCIMY  OF SM   IET
1. ST1RUSIIS11116 K OICL  IITUTE                                                    0.76 29.65     1.62  62.9B       -    -    0.19 7.38   2.57 13.12  2.01   0*57             -
2. SlRE111EIIi SCIOIIL IS£CTCRATES                                                  2.13 90."6        -       -      -    -    0.22 9.34   2.35 11.97  1.82   053              -
3. PUMDSW0  Cf TEO ltOS AR T £AC   GUIDES                                              -    -      2.48  99.46       -    -    0.01  0.54   2.49  12.70  1.91   0.58           -
Su-Tmal IIOEIIT OF TrcER EFF!CTI$.ENSS AD EFFICIDCIY Or MaMli INECTOAS                 2.89 39.00     4.10  55.30       -    -    0.42 5.70   7.41 37.79  5.74    1.67            -
Toti Dismwsnt                                                                           12.00 61.21     5.32  27.16   1.12 5.6?    1.16 5.94  19.61 100.00 12.18   7.42             -
StaerO 8. 1986  16:26                                                                                                                                                                                          -
o ..



Imm
ttaf41t     eha   ataludmJc
atast .loes   t. "t1« ca,tiBItf>
Fsaaac1t 9h. bu Oumis meouas
sll3W           4C             &Rt        lis      W
aSsoIATMC   awiei  Fm  UIMTtg               lIem          Tot              Loca
- -.-  - .-   -.-               ~~Foc.  (cul. hIlwea
**At  g        AMtM    Z    41t   Z    ho           9 I   1 t  S    ExcO. hua>   Tu.M
t. suftZ   mid7tsB                  ha 100.00        -       -           -                   .1  6.d6  0.82   0.« 
2. lIU em   cism                   0.62 26.48      143  56.87                  0.39 16.15   2,34 11.94  1,18   1.16 
3. t.M   UAVXM                     1.42 500 U                      45.00       0.00 0.00   2.23  11.38     -   2.23 
S*A-TOWa cmPI oIE                     3.04 51.74      1.33  22.45   1.42 18.00    0.39 6.43   5,08 29.09  1.99   3.89         -
i. Smou                            0.29 78.87      0.08  21,13      -             -    -   8.36  1.89  0.32   0.04 
2. amC                             0.64 47.27      0.89  40.91      -           4  11.82   1.35  6.81  0.52   0.83 
$*-Total FIIII                        0.92 53.98     0.63  36471       -    -     04   .31   1.7   8.71  0.04   0.7 
1. touIfSI                         0.42 53.        0.28  46.35      -    -             -   0.40  3.05  0.53   0.06          --
2, UICUES                          0.67 85.13      0.12  14.87            -       -    -   0.78  3.99  0.78        - 
Ss*-Tota ENROIT I ISII                o."9  n.49     0.39  2851-                               1.,8  7.04  1.32   0.86 
0. ZT0K
i.980740-                                        0.92  100.00      -                       .92  4.93  0.97                -
2, BULUIIO                            -            0.64 100.00      -    -                  0.64  3.24  0.37   0.26
$k-Ttal ciXII                                         t  .40 100.00                            1.60  04    144    eu6 
E. IpecZSt   OII
1.am lm  Cm          ~             1.08 91.46      0.1    0134      -     -                 2.06 1.49  1.41   04 
2.MLU  108oe                       2.10 91.41      0.20   849                               2.30 11.74  2.02   0.8 
M-Tota *M(&MIS  iuvm                  39  918         0.38  8en-                     -    -    4   28.23  3.4    0.92 
1. RLLOMUU                         0.34 41.40      0.40   9.0       -                       08   4.19  0.2 U
2. am SUU.o.uI                     0.07100.80                                               #           .07  0.9    0.07 
3. ONSiEIS omis1                   0.03 92.91    0.00   7.19        -    -                  0.03  0.17          eu.0
4.L . 1808Ia                       0.57044         0.10  15.5       -                                           ea3.2 - 06 
*O-IOWtaS1810                         1.01 63.3      0.59  36.6             -                  1       ts01   0.8    0.78 
Tot1 al ISIWIcoPS                        9.94 644.5     4.92  29.78   1.12 6.45    O."8 3.33  16.5  04.29  945   648 
il.         Cam5i
fi. uImohU   080110  WSSIuC          2.86 06.89      0.40  13.11                 0.39.0       3.08La .Mn   2.43   em6
To"a  M    TcarT,                        2.06 66         .40  13.11                 ea.6  8.00   3.0  15sn   2.43   &m4 
Totul OIhuo                               2.00  1.2*     54    27.16   1.12 50       14.S  5.94  19.61 10.00 12.13   7.42 
Is.t0 0at   1%6 t16*5



REFU8LIC OF SENECAL
PRSUÇAI  EDUCATtON DEVELOPMoeT PRJECT
IMPLEHENTATION SCNEDULE
FYS           FY88           FT89           FT90            FY9I          F92           FY93          FY96           F95
CY  1986         1987            1988           1989           1990     9    1991    -     1992           1993         .1994           1995
COQPONENT/EE  STAFF                                 JFKI&IJASOND  JFKANJJASO1D  JFNAXJJASOSID  JFNAMJJASOND   JFWJJASOND  JFKAMJJASOND  JFIJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND  JFPAWJJASOND  JFKPIJASOND
I. SECTORAL ADJUSTIfErT PROGRAN STUDIES
- Determinante for Demand of Education in
Rutel Area se                                                      R  R    R
- Financing Expansion of Primary Education
(a) Double-Shift/Multigrade Experiment
FindingRR  R                                                              R  RR                              I      I 1 1 1       I 1 1 1        I  I II    II I  I    I I I  I
(b) Strategy and Financing Plan                                                              R   R  R         Il        III       I        II 1t    II   Il        I I I  I             1   I1
-Praparation of School Location Plans                           R  R  R  R    R     R R              I  II  I  I t              I I   1S      1 1       I  I I    I      II I I       I I I I
-Iproving Efficiency of Secondary Education                        R  R   R   1 1 1 1 I          I  I  I     I1   1     I   1     I 1     I  I I        I    I        II  1 1 1 1     1     1
-Improving Efficiency of  igher Education                       R       R  R  R    R  I  I  I   I   I        I  I I    I    I  I  I  I    I  II  I I    1111  I         I     I  I I       1   1
- Introduction of Cout-Efficiency at
Univeraity of Dakar Campus Servicts                          R       R  R  R    R 1 1   1  I  I   I                  II    I    I      1 1 1 1       1  1  1  I    I  1 I  I       I I_I I
- Preparation of Plan to Consolidate
Specialized Civil Service Traiing Schools                       R   R  R    R 1   I  I     1 1   I  I     1 1 1  I    1 1 1 1    I           I  I    I      I  I  I    I1   1     I    I
- Coct Recovery In Righer Education -
Feasibility of Student Loan System                                                                                                                                                            *
(a) Study                                                                     R  R
(b) Experimentation                                                                       I         I     I  I I    Il
- Sectoral Planning and Pinancing Modela
(a) Simulating Effects of lesurec                            R     R       2R    R        R     R
(b) Integration of Studieu into a Sector
Strategy                                                                                              R 1   I  I    1 1 1 1    I 1  11    1 1 11  I    I              I I     I I I S
IX.   DEVELOPKENT OF PLANNING. BUDETING AND
COST CONL CAPACITY OF KMN
A. STRENCTGENNG DIRECTORATE OF STUtDIES.
EImAN RESOURCES AND PLANNSIG
- Fnusiture                                   P P P O        BBO   I       I     C         G  G
_ Equipment
-Specialist Services                          P 0       B O  I      I  I  I    1 1 1 1
-Felloehips                                         P P      0 1 11 1        1 11         II 
- Local Training                                              p   p   S                                                    I          p        
-publication Of Anual Statietics                    pP        P P PI    P PP               pFP  1        Pp   LI       PfP  P-j        P PIp        pp                  PFPP I    P  P  PI
B   B Eiddin; G - Guarantee; I - Implenentation; O * IDA/AfDB. Tender Board Reviev; P - Preparation; R - Research/Study; S - Site Selection
wù



FY87          PM8            F189           1190            F191          1192          113            1194          115
CT  1986         1987             1988 -        1989   -       1990          1991           1992    -     1993          1994  -         1995
COMMEuIISmrr    STAFF                               JMWAAJASOXW  JlIWJASOUD  JFlWUJASOND   JFmAJJASOND   JF£WUJASOUD  JFmAJJASOND  JF1qWJASOND  JFXIWJASOND  JFMWJASOND J0 M&WJASOISD
li IWIllIZM SCoO0L IEIPIlACUT IEEDS AIND COESTRUCTIOU COSTS
1. DEVEUIPDG FACILM  PLAlININ  AID BtlEnG
CAPACITI
- Civil Vorks: DCES sd Physicel Fscility
llnsgeumnt Division                         P  P  O  B     I  S G  G    G  G
- Civil Vorks: Regionul sud Drtmsuel
Inspeetorates                               S S F?P        PBE  B        1 1P  I  I1    G  G  G  G
- Fttrniture attd Uquipmsut: DCES cad
Physicel Fscility l<aeEnt Division          P  P  0  a    E  I   G a    c G
- Furaiture Mds Equipuent:  Resional Mud
Depsrtmetal lnspectorates                                  P  P 0  B    B      11       0G  G  a  G
- Specialise Services                         P  B O          I I  I   1
-Fellcsshipe                                     P  P  O      I I  1  1    1  1  1
- Local Trai iug                                                P   P      I      I        I     I        I     I       I
2. PRIAT SCBOOL REMBILITATION
-Civtl Yorks                                   S S P P    P O            B    O0  I 1I1    1 1  G  a      G  G
- Furniture                                                           P    P O  B B        O  I  I G       GGG
-EsisiServc s
- Sptecialist Services____________
- Fellonthip_________________
- Local Trsilng
3. PiRVENTIVE AINTENANCE
-Civil lorks                                   S S P P    P P PP    0  B  B 0             I  I I
- Furuiture                                              P  P PP P   0 B              B      I I
-Equipen--   -
- Specialist Services                          P O  B O       I I  I  I
-Felloemhipe_______________
-local Trasig                                                              I I I I         I  I  I  I     I  I  I 1
- Distribution         a" Kits sud  sinutsusue
Guie                                                       P P PP   II I I   I I I I   I 1  I 1
4. tOICc0t/LOvNAUW rrMANCE SCWOOL
cONSTRUCTION
50 Expereiastal Classerooma <Ptise 1)
- Civil Worla: 20 classrooms                   S P P O    B           B  O    1  1 I   G  G  G  G
- Furniture and Equipment:  20 classro s             P  P    P             O  I  I G       G  G  G
- Civil Yorks: 30 classrooS                                                B  B O  I       I      I C G   G  G
- Furciture asd Equipoett:  30 claserocs                              P    F  O 3  B       O  I  I G      G  G  G
175 Clsa»roo    (Phass II)
- Civil Vorks: 75 clussroos                    S S              P  P  O    B  B   O  I     1 1 1  G       a G  G
- Furniture and Equip_nt:  75 claserooma                                      P  P  B      B O  I  I      G  G  a  G
- Civil Vorks: 100 classrooss                  S  S                                                 1     1  I 1    G_C     G
- Furciture ansd Equipusut:  100 clatsraoos                                                                     I I    G60G GC
- Civil Vorkt:  75 claserocus                  S  S                                              P 0      B  B 0  I            I  I  I G    G  G 6 G
- Furtiture sud Equipunt:  75 classrooss                                                                        P  B    B  O  I  I   G    G   G0G
175 Claseroose (PMase III)
- Civil Noria:  100 clsssrooms                 S  S                                                                               I    1  I 1   G    G  G  G
- Furtiture and Equipu»st:  1O0  claeroous                                                                                                   I- I GGG
- Specialist Services                          P  O  i0   1          1    1  I     I  I  I  I  I  I I      1  I 1
- Felloawhips                                     P      O   I  I I  I
- Construttio  Guide                                          P PP P    1 1 11             1  1  1  1     1     1  1 1    I 1 1  1    1  1 1 1
B - Bidding8  G - Guarantee; 1 - Ismpleuutatiou; O - IDA/AfDB, Tender Board Review; P - Prepsrstion; R - Rseasrch/Study; S - Site Selection



1187      ~FMS            nu8            1T9            1191          1192           1193          118            19
CT  1986   -     1987            1988           1989           lm99    -     191            1992    -     1993    -     1996           1995
C. DEu.CUIN   M'as PIOJEC  00089: CAPA0     (11030  MMIT
-luistguwe                          101~~~~~~~~~ 01
spequ*a.mt                                       11oce    0a0  801 1 1 1   1 1            00
-1.lLowbipe               110           1     I    Il       I        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I  
- 1,.it lrepnatlOm                                                                 I      1111            XII
A. SIEUOUUXIC 181 RATICEAL 118AOOGICA L 
-OtvtIVolu                            88ton11       101RR         RR 01       1   110            GO                                      1  1111          II                       
-l PmSINul    01    1101                                                     110!            1100           CG
-specLmiasnvtces                              1 0  a0    I  I I I          X    I
-1.llovabtpe.                                    11p0    XX   1  1 11                       I
LocalTra 'a pI                                                p   z î            î              I 
-   zDookl-bStEutsa" Distrib.utiton                           p I  I  1    I  I  I  I     I 3 
-îelloeab±p.                      110              1!~~ a 0   III1        1  1  11       1111    31   13
- lMocalGT-Gura ntt     ,1    mpemnaton                    1W M   113 Bar  Re i Xu P    rmaio X     « "bs"t8 St   eot



EtUIPULIC OF SEUIGL
PRDINY EDUCATIOl DEVELOY1 PEDJECT
ScN L  AID DURAtION O   N STAFF APPOINTUS
1T87        FY88t         1189         190           1191         F192          n193          1194         1195
Cr  1986       1987           1988n        1989         1990          19 j         1992          1993         1994           1995
CCNT/ NORUIZATSOI          IAL UIT/UV SS                   APIWtJU SOND  JASOUD Jn   wJASOT D            F     JA,ONi> jYtUUtJAS0ND  JmASJFASOWD  JUV JASOSU OltD m  UJASOND
I. DtV3PEN  OP PLANlIUG, WDGG AND COSS                                                                                    i                   ,
CONT*   CAPACITI                                          I                                i                          i
A. Strengthtina the Directorate of Studies,  _
Raeources and Planning (Directorate of Studies.     l  l               1                l                   ;
Rnaietources and Planning)                                                                                                             x                                         
- conomiat                                                               x xx i    xx x    xx x 'i l  I 1                    xx  x  xxxi   x x x    x x x   x  ix i 
planner                                                               x x ix x                                                                    x x ifx x   x              
B. NUianiing Sctool Replecenat Nceds Mnd 16ev                                                          x " Y         x " x              x Y l
construction Costa.1 
1. Dmovloping Facility Plannin Mg sd Eudgetin{
Capacity <Physical ?acilfty Ksatemaet
Dlivision)
- Chief. Physical Facility Nanagement
Division                                                    y y  x x |   °  |    x r | i  xx  x x   x x x          xxx                 x xx   x x x    x    x
- 2Seuiox Building Technicisna                                 y      x xxi    x xx x    xx  x                  x   x          x     x x       xx x1x                 
- acility Eudgeting Officer                                 ox  x ~xx x           x x ix    xx x             x    x           x   x          xx                      
-3 tecbnical nspecîore l/                                oo  0y   y  y            yyyy     yYT  yix                                           i           E x                    x9 
-3 Assistant Techuical inspectora 21                                                        o      0x        x         oo  i                  i                              î        x 
2. he-Coe/lintenac School Construction                                                                                                              Xe
(Directorate of Scbool Construction and
Equipasut)
-Chiot. Construction Division                                 xx          lx   x    x xix xKK i                            x x   x               x  xx      i              
-3   nassisant or       rorc a t      2             l           X    x   x   x   x x x                                                                                        x|
C. Devoloping Proj.ct Coordination Capacity of the
lmN (Project Unit) 
11 RlPROVEt<T OF TRAOI   QPWECTIVEESS. EFFSCIENCY                                           xxxi                       i    xx xIxx         X   x X  X  X  | X    |  x | | |    I  x I  |    |  x    x x x    x XX i
op SCRWL DSPECTORS, ANu TEXTEBOXS
A. Str.ngthnming the National Pedasogical Inatitute
<National PedagogicaLi Institut. 3/
-Direcon  ?x x      X   Xi                                                      X      x    Ix   |x                x  x | x |x  | x                  x |  x |  x |              x x|      |  x
- General SBcretary                                             X            x       | C| X X X|      X |X |   X  X   X  X    X   X  X X   X  X I j X    X  X                      X
a. Str.n5thening the Rolo  of lnspectoratee
-Directorate of Priary Educetion)
- Decealrelisation Coordinstor
C. Provision of Textbooks and Tescher Guides
<Itextboc& Unit)                                                                                                                                                                     
_ Director                                      _                  x      x |   K  X X X                                               i X  X   x |                 x           x x x x x  |1
-Editor                                                         Ou                1 1X             iii  iii           ii           iiii       iii          K     i
1/  The thbre recional coordinators vould be recruited on a contractual basis or fron NGOa. They vould handie the techuical inapectoz teaka for tvo y.ars, the partod during which the
tecbnical inspectors would undargo trainin abroad and at the DCES.
2/  Tb* tbrée ssistant regional coordinators vould also be recruited on a contrectual basis and, if found satisfactory. eoployed as assistant to technical coordinators.
/  Appointent achedule of other INUDR steff vouid be deter2ined on the basta of onSoing study to reorgsniz. INU6DBE.
O - Date of ippointant; X - Duration of Apontunt; 'Y - Training Period



REEPBLIC OF SENECAL
PRImRY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMY OF FOREIGN AND LOCAL SPECIALIST SERVlCES
Foreign (F>               Total          Fron/                    Organizational Unit of Assignrient and
Project Componont                       Specialists            Local (L)     Number   Mannonths          To                      Areas of Assistance to Project Staff
I. Developuent of Plannins,
Budgetinn, and Cost-Control
Capacity
A. Strentheniing the Directectorate ectorate of Studies, Iluan Resources and Planning
of Studies, maman Resources       Education Econoatist                 F            1        18       01/87-07t88      Analyze cost and financing at each level; identify
and Planning                                                                                                            productive and allocative efficiency measures.
Educational Planner                 F            1         18      07/87-12/88       Prepare student floa  projections; identify efficiency
neasures; develop sector plan.
School Location Planner             F            1         12      01-12/87          Extension of school mapping to urban areas and secondarv
education.
Educational Statistician            F            1          3      06-08/87          Develop demographic and budgetary data collection
07-08J88         methodology and quantitative tools; prepare format for
annual statistica.
Budgeting Specialist                 F           1          6      02-05187          Disaggregate costs for student services at university Campus
01-03/88         Service, and outline stepe for cost-accouctina syste.;
identify coat-reduction measures.
Financial Analyst                   L            1          6      02-08/87          Analyze budgets and expenditures of apecislized rraining
schools; identify cost reduction measures.
Computer Programser                 L            1          2      04-06/87          Prepare prograns for planning, budgeting and school napping
data.
Student Loan Specialist             F            1          3      03-06/88          Conduct a study on feasibility of student-loan systen.
Legal Expert                        L            1          1      05-06/88          Identify the legal aspects of a student-loan systen.
S. MiniaizînR School Replacennt
Needs and Nev Construction
Costa
1. Developuent of Facility                                                                                             Physical Facility Management Division
Planning and Budgeting         Physical Inventory                   F            2         4       03-12/87         Establisb a  methodology for taking  nventory of
Capacity                        Specialists                                                        03-12/88         school/inspectorate facilities. fur ..ture and equipnent         >
Statisticisn/Prograuer              L            1          1      03-12/87          Organize, computerise and establish maethodology for data    e
analysis; develop training program for staff.                  4 
Architect/Nngineer                  F            1          4      03-12/87          Prepare cost/price data and basic standards.
03-12/88



Foreign (F)              Total          From/                   Organizational Unit of Assigument and
Project C2eponent                      Specialists            Local (L)     Number  Manmonths          To                      Areas of Assistance to Project Staff
2. Preventive Maintenance         Organization and Methoda            F            1         4      03/12187         Prepare user guide for preventive maintenance for school
for Preventive Maintenance                                                         masters, teachers and teacher tralning collages.
3. Primary School                 Architect/Engineer                  L            1         2      04/87-06/87      Prepart bidding documents for clîssroon rehabilittion.
rehabilitation
4. Low-cost/lov-mintenance        Architect/Engineer                  F            I        10      01/87-12/88       Directorate of School Construction and Eguipent Provide
school construction                                                                                               technical guidance to construction of 50 experimental
classrooms (Phase I). Evaluate currently used school
designs and prototypes; recomaend modifications; prepare
documentation including construction guide. Review the
prototypes and the nev furniture bullt.
4      01/89-12/90      Provide technical guidance to construction of 175 classrooms
(Phase Il). Evaluate Phase I experience and recomiend
modifications. Ensure implementation of modifications made.
Evaluate the suitability and durability
of furniture built.
3      01/91-12/92      Provide techuical guidance to construction of 1 S classrooms
(Phase III) and ensure implementation of modifi-tions mde.
Project Officer                     L           1         24      01/87-12/88      Supervise implementation of the component.
24      01/89-12/90
24      01/91-01/92
C. Developing Proect Coordina-                                                                                           Project Unit
tion Capacity of the lEN          Pedagogue/Planner                   F            1        24      01/87-01/89       Coordinate pedagogical aspects of the project. Evaluate
outcomes.
Administrator                       F           1         12      01/87-01/88      Establish management snd project accounting systems. project
monitoring toola and procedural guidelines related to
diabursement and procurement.
Management Spectalists             F/L           I         9      1987-91          Provide periodic guidance to improve management of the Unit
and coordination of the project; conduct vorkshopa for
component coordinstors.
Architect                           L           1         10      1987-91          Supervise phjsical 2mplementation and *ssint in procuremant
of civil vorks, furniture and equipumet contracta.
Consultants for Project            FIL          -         24      1988-89          Prepare the necessarv documntation for the follouing
Preparation                                                                        project.                                                    y
Auditor                             L            1         8      1987-1994        Audit project accounts.



Foreign (»)             Total         From/                   Organizational Unit of Assigmnnt and
Pro1ect Component                     Specialists           Local (L)    NImber  Nancontha         To                     Aresa of Assistanee to Pro1eet Staff
I. IXmrovement of Teacher
Effe.tivenes,. Efficiencv of
Sehool Inspetors and Textbooks
A. Strngthening the National                                                                                       National Peda ogical Institute
Pedagonical Institute          Neasurement and Evaluation          F           1        12     06/87-07t88      Develop batteries of testa to measure student progress;
Specialist                                                                      improve evaluation methodology and practice.
Curriculum Developuent             F           1        18     06/87-12/88      Develop/adapt curricula to improve the quality and relevance
St icialist                                                                     of primary echoolisg in general aed for use in double-shift
and multigrade teaching in particular. Develop pedagogical
methode to irmprove teaching efficiency.
Spectalist in Experimon-          F            1         3     2 times over    Develop and evaluate multigrade, dcuble-shift
tation Nethodology                                              1987-88         experimentation; modify for nationwide implementation.
Teacher Traineug Specialist        F           1        18     01/87-06/88      Develop currieula for and participate in training of
teachers for double-shift. multigrade experimentation;
evaluate and modify it for larger-scale implementation;
revise pre-service training programs; establieb regular
in-service tralning progr.
Timetableing Specialiat            F           1         4      3 times during   Prepare timetables for use in double-shift experimentation;
1987-89         develop a timetable whereby number of teachers can be
reduced by adjusting studenttteacher contact bours per veek
but increasing duration of the achool year.
Document Classification            L           1         2      1989            Develop a classification system for INEADE library
Specialist                                                                      *ad publicationa.
Organization and Management        L           1         2      04/87,04/88     Improve management capacity and teassork tbrough
Specialist                                                                      consultation and vorkshops.
B. Strenatheania Education
Administration *ad Teacher
Support Capacity of                                                                                              Directorate cf Priry Education
Inapectorates                   Education Administration           F            1         7      3 timea during    rovide guidance on education administration under
Specialist                                                      1987/89         decentralization. Participate in organizing the
experimentation atd its evaluation; recommend modifications
for nationwide implemeetation.
Organizational Planning            L           1         8      3 times during   Participate in organizing the experimentation for
Specialist                                                      1987/89         deceentralization of inspectorates; evaluate it; recomend
modifications for nationvide implemetation.
Personnel management               L           1         2     Twice during     Provide guidance on effective and efficient personnal
Specialist                                                      1987/88         manageentt.
C. Providinla Textbooka ted                                                                                         Textbook Puablishina Unit
Tacher Guide                     Publishiag Specialist              F           1        18      02/87-08/88     Direct the publishing process. provide guidelines to         _
authors, edit manuscripta, and procure printing services;
train authors.
Production Controller              F           1         6     06/87-01/88      Supervise msanuscript printing.
AED
llrch and Septeuber 1986



REPUJLIC 0F SENEGAL
PR7tARY EDUCATION DEVELOPtENS PROJECS
Sll8ARY OF OVERSuS AND LOCAL TRAINING
Projeot                                         Number of    Lengtb in                                                             Orgeaizational Unit of Traine
Componont                Ares of Training         Persons     8amonths          Dates                 Qualifications                  snd Objective of TraininR
(mia or deys)
I.* Develosent of Plannina.
Control Ca"atly
A. St=th   n:gthe           Pellowsbips Abrosd                                                                                          Directorate of Studios, _u
Ds  torate o                                                                                                                         Resowress nd Plannins
Educational planning            1      10 =nm          09-87/07-88    Advanced degrue in education  nd      Prepare upply and d
R sources ard Plannsn8                                   1       10 n/m         09-88/07-89    experience in planning and minium     projections for schoolin8; sectoral
1 yeàr work experience at DER?.      plans; identify growtb targets.
Education econosies             1      10 *n/          09-87107-88    Advanced de8ree In economico,         Develop a cost-control, budget
I       o10 t/         09-88107-89    educational plannsng, mtb or          preparation and expenditure revie,
*tatistics. minium 1 yesr            systen.
experience at DUERP. 
Educational atatistica          1      10 m/m          09-88/07-89    Advsnced degree in atatistices.       Develop a metbodology for collection
educational planning, or economica.   and analysis of educational
Itinim   1 year experience et DERP.   tatistice; and publication of
etatistice.
Observation Visita              I       1 n/a          03-88          Minister of National Education or     Observe operation of student losn
Student losn svstems                                                  bis designate.                        systeme.
Educational planning            2      20 days         1987 and 1988  Advanced degres in educational        Observ sectorallsubsectorsl
planning and 3 yeara' vork           plannins practice.s
experience at DM.
Controlling education           1      3 days          1987           Advanced degree in ecooices.          Observe su¢cessful practices of
coste snd personnel sime                                              educationsl planning, mth or          controllin  education costa snd
statistics. and 3 years' vork        personnel aise.
experience at DER.P
Local Trainic
Planning, s¢cool spping,       51      7 mamontbs    1988-91          DESP couaterparts st regional         Stadardise data collection
and collecting statistics                                             inspectorates.                        procedure.
Introduction to micro-          3      6 days          1987,88        EconoiAst and planer.                 Utilise computer in planing.
computers                                                                                                   budgeting and expenditure revie,.
QrX



Project                                            Number of      Lensth in                                                                 Organi2ational Unit of trainee
CoMpMmt                    Area of TrainBtu          Persons       Nansonthe         Dates                   Qualifications                    and Objective of Training
(mii/ or days)j
B. llinictiainR School
Replacernent teedd and
New Construction Costs
1 Developina Pacility    Fellohips Abromd                                                                                                     Physical Facility Managernet Division
Planning and     ~     Teehniques sud rstbeods of         2       12 m/rn         05-12/87         Baccalaureate vith nininun 2 years'   Develop inventory of school
Budgeting Capacity     facility planning and                                      02-08/88         experience in construction and          facilities and equipeent.
manageenat                                                                 equipuent.
Local Vellovshi
Claàsificationdlou Renta-         1       6 rn/s           06-12/87        Technician vith experience in data      Develop ilnvntory documentation
tion techniques.                                                           classification.                         systen.
Observation Visits
Physical facility                 1       2 r/a            03/87           Director of Construction and            Observe facility planning and
planning                                                   04/88           tquiprnent.                             management techniques.
Local Training                                                                                                     Develop standardized data collection
Techniques of collecting          -       67 n/rn          1988-91         Technical inapectors, and               and recording systec at the local
and reporting data on                                                      beadmasters responsible for             level.
physical state of                                                          reporting data on statue of physical
facilities                                                                 facilitis.
2. Priyar  School         None
Rabatbilitati;on                                                                                                                                                                      t
3. Preventive             Local TraininR                                                                                                      Physical Facility Nanagetmeut Division    o
Maintenance             Preventive naintenence            -       120 r/rn         88, 89. 90      School teachers and headmaasters.       Train  chool staff in preventive
techniques                                                                                                         maintenance techniques.
4  Lou Cost/Low            Fellowslhip Abroad                                                                                                 Directorate of Scbool Construction
Maintenance School     Appropriate Construction           1       6 nt/m           1987            Advanced degree in architecturea        and Equipient
Construction           Technologies                                                                engineering sud minirn 5 years'         Identify appropriate lo-coat
work experience.                        construction technologies.
Regioral Fellowships              3       18 rnm           1987            Daccalaureate vith miniuman 2 years'    Identify appropriate lov-cost
Lov-cot construction;                                                      experience in construction and          construction technologies.
use of local techniques                                                    equipment.
and naterials
Local Training                    -       3 rn/a           197/88         Project Techaical Coordinators and      To de'vslop appropriate local deaigne
Serninara on local                                                         other technicians involved in           and brief participants on
techniques and noaterials                                                  construction from other public          impleaentation (Phase I).
agencies.
C. Developina Project         Regional Nelloyehips                                                                                               Project Unit
CoordinationCgpgi         Project maagem9ent                 2       6 Win            1987, 1988      Project Director                        lmprove managesent of Project Unit
of the IllQt                                                                                                                                  and  coordination of project
components.
Project accounting                I       2 rn/m           1988            Project Accountant.                     Develop a detailed project              x
accounting systen.
Procurement                       1       3 rsn/           1988            Project Procurernent Specialist.        Imoprove procurement practices.      "



Project                                            Number of      Length in                                                                 Organisatiomel Unit of Traines
Component                 Ares of Training           Persons       Manmontha         Dates                   Qualifications                    and Objective of Trainimn
omT no-r =daya
Observation Visite
International Seminare            I       10 days          1988            Project Director or bis assistant,      Update knb ledge of nev practices.
accountant, procurement *pecialiet.
Visits to the World Bank,         4       60 days         87, 88, 89,    Director. accountant.                     Develop better underetanding of Bank
other Project Units                                        90                                                      Croup operations and procedures.
It. Improvennt of Teacher
Effectiveness  Efiiciency
af Scbool Inspectors
and Textbooks
A. Strengthening the         Fellowahips Abroad                                                                                                 National Pedagogical Institute
National Pedagogical     Curriculum Development             2        20 m/m          09/87-07t88     Advanced degree in educatton.           Revise. ndapt curriculum.
Institute                                                                           09/88-07/89
Measurement and                   2        20 m/m          09/87-07/88     Advanced degree in education            Develop battery of teste. criteria
evaluation                                                09/88-07(89      psychology.                             for evaluating teacher performance.
Experimental pedagogy             2        20 m/m         09/88-07/89      Advanced degree in education            Aeeist in developing metbodology,
09/89-07/90     psycholagy.                             introducing experimeatal programe
and testing curriculs changes.
Science teaching                  I        10 m/m          09/87-07/88     Advanced degree in science and 5        Develop effective methode for
years' teaching experience.             science teachins; recommend
curricula modifications.
Math teaching                     2        20 m/m          09/87-07/88     Advanced degree in math and 5 years    Develop effective methods for math
09/88-07/89     teaching experience.                    teaching; recommend curricula
modifications.
Local language teaching           3        30 m/m         09/87-07/88      Degree in education vith speciali-      Prepare materials and curricula for
09/88-07/89     zation in local languages.              local language teaching.
09/89-07/90
Social science teaching           1        10 m/m         09/88-07/89      Advanced degree in history or           Develop effective teaching methode;
geography vith 5 years' teaching        recommend curricula modifications.
experience.
Development and                   2        20 m/m         09/87-07/88      Advanced degree in education and        Develop teacher guides and instruc-
publishing of teachin8                                    09/88-07/89      experience in vriting.                  tional materisal; use lov-cost
materialse                                                                                                         techniques.
Teacher training and              I        10 m/m         09/87-07/88      Advanced degree in education and        Develop teacher training and
evaluation                                                                 5 yearsl of vork experience.            evaluation programs and conduct       j t
ln-service and pre-service training ° I
School adnilnistration            1         6 m/m         04/87-10/87      Advanced degree in education and        Prepare vorkshops and imaterials for o
5 years' of vork experience.           headmasters and departmental
inspectors in *chool administration .
Local Trainin
U~iIffiutbrd                              100 ma/m        87  88  q,    'Teachera participating în                 Enhance knovledge of teaching tech-
Dteab shift, multigrade           -. 89                                    multi4rade, double-sahift               niques for multigrade or double-
experimentation.                       shift classes.



Project                                        Uumber of       ugt ln                                                            Orgsalationl Unit f rai
Comment                 Are of Trainion          Persen.    Hlairsothf Dates                         Qualiftications                und Objective of Train 4
B. StreVebf                Fellowhip Abrs School                                                                                      Directorate of Fr1rv Bcuation
________                »adinistration                  5       50 n/e         87, 88, 89,    Departœcmtal tnspeeora.              Imuprove support to hea  ateram
liministration *ad                                                              90, 91                                             iientify cost-etticiesny _ec
Cucity or               Local Traiinao
__peetor_tac             Planaing, administration       -       40 */mt        87, 88. 89     Regional sud depatmtal                une ledg  ef fisucis
and resource maageent                                                inspectors.                          umnagt, personnl use, am
education admiista tion.
Teccher servisifon and         -       206 m/M        87, 88, 89     Assistant inspectors.                Improve pedagogical support to
pedgfgical support                                                                                        teachers.
Ldminstrative procedures       -       120 Min        1987, 1988     Administrative staff of regioni aMd  Iprove efficiecy iu hsndling
departesutal inspectorates.          administrative tae, improve
personel and expenditure record-
keepitog.
C. Provision of Textbooks   Fellevahl:s lbtoa                                                                                         Textbook Publishina UnIt
and Teacher Cuides      Vriting. dapting*               1       6 m/m          1987           Advaced degreé in education and      tstablish publishng  capcity at
publishaing textbooks                                                 xperience in vriting adi            IEN.
manaemt.
Textbook editing               1        6 m/m         1988           Advanced degree in jourualim,        rubane knovledge of publishing
education and extensive editing      techniques. 
experience.
Observation Vieito             2        1 m/m         1989           Director snd Editor                  Observe textbook developcent,
publidbng and printing operations.
Local Trainint
Textbook authorchip            -       13 m/m         1987, 1988     Textbook authors.                    Train authers launuacript
opecifications and update tbeir
knovladge of curriculum revisioue
und imnovative pedagogical
techniques.
Textbook use,                  -       13 m/s         1989/90        Regional and Departmmtal Inspectors  Train inspectora lu efficient use of
distribution and storage                                                                                   texthooka by tebchers. nd proper
distribution end storege practices.



- 133 -                  ANNEX 3-18
Page 5 of 5
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURE FOR FELLOWSHIP AWARDS
1.        Objective.  The purpose of the fellowship program is to
accelerate the institution-building process by providing MEN staff with the
relevant technlcal or administrative knowledge and skills.
2.        Criteria for Fellowship Avards
(a)  Field of stud : Fellowships would be awarded only for studies
related to (i) project activities, and (ii) future job
responsibilities within MEN;
(b)  Qualifications:  Candidates muet:
(i)  have the requisite academic background;
(ii) have minimum of three years of vork experience, of which at
least one year at a ministry of education;
(iii) have fluency in the language of course of study;
<iv)  be in good health;
(v)  have intellectual curiosity, analytical capability,
initiative, and drive;
(vi)  have ability to work with and share knowledge with others;
and
(vii) manifest potential for advancement.
<c) Other criteria: Candidates muet:
<i)  have a good understanding of the project, its objectives and
implementation;
(ii)  agree to serve the MEN for at least five years in the area
for which he/she is awarded the fellowship; and
(iii) repay all expenses incurred in preparation for and during
his/her fellowship training should he/she decide to drop out
of the program or, without special permission of the Project
Director, elect not to serve in the MEN.
3.        Procedure for Awarding Fellcwships
The Project Director would nominate candidates for fellowships.
Selection would be made by a team of at least five members, chaired by the
Project Director and composed of the Directors of Studies, Human Resources
and Planning; INEADE; Directorate of School Construction and Equipment; and
the Coordinator of the inspectorate component.
WAPED
March 1986



- 134 -                     ANNEX 3-19
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
A.   Senegalese Public Procurement Rules and Procedures
1.        The Senegalese public procurement rules and procedures are
generally acceptable to IDA. Wherever ICB procedures have been specifled
ln the credit documents, IDA's guidelines take priority over local rules.
In the case of LCB, the Senegalese procurement code provides for a vell-
structured and complete system. In the section below, some of the LCB
procedures, such as selection of the appropriate procurement procedure ln
borderline cases (i.e., use of "adJudication" or "appel d'of_res") and
speciflc criteria for granting preferences for locally produced goods and
registered contractors (artisans), are discussed.
2.        Adjudication is a competitive procedure which uses simple tech-
nical evaluation method to select a supplier or a contractor. It is
applicable to procurements which are easily quantifiable and have clearly
specified technical characteristics. There are three types of
adjudications:
(a) Unrestricted: Places no restrictions on bidders and has public
bid openings. Offers may vary only in price, and the lowest
bîdder is selected.
(b) Restrlcted: Limits bldding to a list of qualified contractors or
suppliers established by a special committee (prequalification).
Offers may vary in price only and the lowest bidder is selected.
(c)  Rating based:  Allows consideration of both price and technical
merit, using quality ratings expressed as coefficients. A sum-
mation of the coefficients leads to an automatic selection of the
most advantageous offer.
In all cases, the evaluating and selecting body is the "Office of Adjudi-
cation" consistlng of at least three nominated members, one of whom must be
the financial controller.
3.        "Appel d'offres" is the most elaborate competitive procedure for
selecting contractors or suppliers on the basis of lowest evaluated bid.
Bld opening is usually closed to the general public; for projects flnanced
by IDA, however, in accordance wvth IDA's procurement guidelines, the bid-
ders or their representatives are invited as observers. "Appel d'offres"
may be either open or restricted. In the first case, "appel d'offres dit
restreint," bid invitations are issued to a selected group of candidates
(after prequalification). The second case, known as "appel d'offres dit
ouvert," is a vide-open call to the public to submit bids. In both cases,



- 135 -                    ANNEX 3-19
Page 2 of 6
open and restricted, the bidders must prove their technical and financial
qualifications for carrying out the contract.
4.        Depending on the size of the contract, either a seven-member
National Tender Board (for contracts over CFAF 20.0 million, or about
US$55,555) or a six-member Regional Tender Board (for contracts below
CFAF 20 million where the procurer is in that region) opens and evaluates
the submitted bids. The composition of the Tender Boards has been
specified by Decret No. 82-620, eated September 7, 1982.
5.        In addition, the procurement legislation allows negotiated con-
tracts in the following cases (which can be accepced by IDA, where appro-
priate, for contracts below CFAF 8.0 million or about US$22,222):
- if only one supplier carries the needed item;
-  if, following two calls for bids, no offer is received; and
- defense-related procurement.
6.        All draft contracte, as vell as contract amendments (extension,
change in quantities, etc.) must be submitted to an advisory and control-
ling body called "Commission Nationale des Contrats de l'Administration
(CNCA)" or, in the cases of contracts awarded by the Regional Tender Board,
to a "Commission Regionale des Contrats de l'Administration." As part of
its control function, CNCA muet give its opinion on all proposed contracts
involving an expenditure of CFAF 20 million or more.
7.        Margin of Preference to Registered Craftsmen:  According to
Article 110 of Decret 82-690, for civil works contracts to be awarded under
the LCB, a preference (7.5%) may be given to craftsmen registered as indi-
viduals or as joint ventures with the Chamber of Artisans.
B.   Procurement Procedures Under the Project Civil Works
S.        Civil works contracts for remodeling of administrative buildings
together valued at about US$257,000 equivalent, which are not likely to
attract overseas foreign firms, would be procured under LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of 100
classrooms, for small repairs of classrooms, for textbook storage facil-
ities, and for the construction/rehabilitation of the INEADE building,
together valued at US$1.6 million equivalent, would be procured under
procedures acceptable to AfDB.
9.        Civil works for the construction of 400 rural primary classrooms,
scattered in remote areas, totalling about US$4.0 million equivalent which
are unsuitable for conventional and international competitive bidding,
would be carried out under separate contracts for (a) skilled worker
services (including masons, brickmakers, on-the-job training and super-
vision, site preparation and materials); (b) construction materials; and
(c) unskilled labor services. These contracts would be procured in
accordance with IDA's guidelines as follows:
(a) All purchases of construction materials that can be grouped into
packages valued at or more than US$100,000 equivalent, totalling



- 136 -                    ANNEX 3-19
Page 3 of 6
about US$800,000 equivalent would be procured through ICB and in
accordance with IDA's guidelines;
(b) Contracte valued at between US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent,
totalling about US$1.0 million would be procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA; and
(c) Items that cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least
US$20,000 equivalent, provided the aggregate amount of such
procurement shall not exceed US$2.3 million equivalent, would be
procured through local shopping or direct contracting on the
basis of quotatiox.s from at least three reliable suppliers.
Furniture
10.       Furniture, valued at US$1.1 million equivalent, would be procured
through LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Restricted "adjudi-
cation" would be suitable, which allows restrictive bidding to a list of
qualified suppliers established after a prequalification.
il.       Furniture for INEADE, rehabilitation of 100 classrooms and text-
book components, valued at US$630,000 equivalent, would be procured through
procedures acceptable to AfDB.
Eguipment
12.       Equipment, including vehicles, valued at about US$800,000 would
be procured through ICB. All goods would be grouped, wherever possible,
into bid packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more.
13.       Items that cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$100,000
equivalent but valued at between US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent,
totalling about US$100,000 equivalent, would be procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Items that cannot be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$20,000 equivalent provided the aggregate amount of
such procurement shall not exceed US$90,000 equivalent, would be procured
through local shopping or direct contracting on the basis of quotations
from at least three reliable suppliers.
14.       Equipment for INEADE, rehabilitation of 100 classrooms, preven-
tive maintenance and textbook components valued at US$390,000 equivalent,
would be procured through procedures acceptable to AfDB.
Textbooks
15.       Printing of textbooks, valued at about US$970,000 equivalent,
would be procured through procedures acceptable to AfDB. The purchase of
textbooks and of adaptation rights would be procured after contract negoti-
ations with the publishers whose titles have been found suitable.



- 137 -                        ANNEX 3-19
Page 4 of 6
Specialist Services and Fellowshîps/Local Training
16.       Specialist services, including audit services, valued at US$4.0
million equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines
and on the basis of invitation for proposals from three to six qualified
and experienced consultant firms and on an exceptional basis, from indi-
vidual specialists. Fellowships, valued at US$920,000 equivalent, would be
contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Local training represents
US$670,000 and consists of indemnities. Services of trainers are covered
under specialist services.
17.       Specialist services for the rehabilitation of 100 classrooms,
preventive maintenance and textbook components, valued at US$380,000
equivalent, would be procured through procedures acceptable to AfDB.
Consumables
18.       Consumables (office supply, spare parts, gasoline, other consum-
ables), would be procured through LCB according to procedures acceptable to
IDA. All goods or services would be grouped, wherever possible, into bid
packages of at least IUS$20,000 equivalent, totalling about US$1.5 million
equivalent.
19.       Items which cannot be grouped in bid packages of at least
US$20,000 equivalent would be procured through comparative shopping and
direct contracting on the basis of at least three quotations, according to
procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the aggregate amount of such
procurement shall not exceed US$1.1 million equivalent. Consumables,
valued at US$500,000, for AfDB-financed components would be procured under
procedures acceptable to AfDB.
Contract Review
Prior Review
20.       For all contracts or bid packages of at least US$100,000 equiva-
lent, each of the following stages in the procurement process would be
subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before they
are implemented and finalized:
- Advertisement
- Prequalification (if called for)
- Bidding documents and addenda
- Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
- Contract documents
- Subsequent major modifications of the contract
Initial Review
21.       Fo'` ail contracts valued at up to US$100,000 equivalent, an
initial review, followed by a post review or a random review depending on
size of contract, by IDA staff would be required for standard documents
which are common to a number of procurement operations, for example:



- 138 -                    ANNEX 3-19
Page 5 of 6
-  the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
- the prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
- standard registers or Drequalified contractors; and
- standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders,
general conditions of contract, and in some instances technical
specifications.
Post Review
22. -    For all contracts or bid packages estimated at between US$20,000
and US$100,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts, together with
the bidding documents, bid evaluation and award decision, would be fur-
nished to IDA for post review before the first application for withdrawal
of credit funds against these contracts.
Random Review
23.       All contracts valued at under US$20,000 equivalent would be sub-
ject to random review by IDA during supervision missions. Contracts would
not be submitted to IDA, but held by the Project Unit for such random
review and for auditing.
Eligibility for Domestic Preference
24.       The preference allowed by IDA for local manufacturers in the
award of contracts under IOB does not apply to LCB even in cases where
foreign firms, including those from neighboring countries, are permitted to
bid.
25.       For goods procured under ICB, a margin of preference of up to 15%
vould be granted to bids offering goods which are manufactured to a
substantial extent in Senegal, in accordance with and subject to the
following provisions:
(a) Bidders are required to state in their bids the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price of imported goods and the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods.
(b) Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared
on the basis of their ex-factory or c.i.f. price, excluding any
customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be imported and
any sales and similar taxes on locally manufactured goods.
(c) After evaluation, responsive bids vill be classified into one of
the following groups:
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Senegal, if the
bidder shall have established that the manufacturlig cost of such
goods includes a value added in Senegal equal co at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
Group B:  bids offering goods manufactured in Senegal other than
bids classified in Group A;



-139 -                       ANNEX 3-19
Page 6 of 6
Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(d) All bids in each group will be fir : compared among themselves,
to determine the lowest evaluated  id in each group.  The lowest
evaluated bids of each group will  nen be compared wîth each
other and if, as a result of thit comparison, an evaluated bid
from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it will be selected for
the purpose of award.
(e) If the lowest evaluated bid in the comparison under paragraph
(d) above is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids will be further
compared wîth the lowest bid from Group A, as determined under
paragraph (d) above, For the purpose of this comparison only,
each Group C bld will be compared on the basis of the sum of its
c.i.f. price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) above, and an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of goods
offered in such Group C.bid; or (iî) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods. If the Group A evaluated bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the purpose of
award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from Group C, as deter-
mined under paragraph (d) above, shall be selected.
Participation by Foreign Firms
26.       Most of the contracts would be procured through LCB according to
procedures acceptable to IDA; if foreign firms wish to participate under
these circumstances, they would be allowed to do so in accordance with
local procedures.
WAPED
September 1986



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL/REPU3LIQUE DU SENEGAL
.PRI<RY EDUCATION DEVELOPHE1T PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEEMET D'EWSEIGNENMM  PRIMAIRE
DISBURSEMENT ?ROFILE/PROFIL DES DEBOURSEKENTS
Disbursemente/lDboursmemnts
ProfileIProfile
IDA Fiscal Years
and Quarters/IDA         By Qwarter/        Cu=aulative/
Années budgîtaires       Par tristre        Cunt±2atif               Project/Projet       Regiomal Sector/Secteur à l'échelle rîgioule                                                         >
et trimestres             (US$ million)     (us$ l4illion)                (M)                               <Z)
1987   3   (31-Mar-88)        0.4               0.4                      3.3
4   (30-Jun-88)        0.1               0.5                      4.2                               0.0
1988   1   (30-Sep-88)        0.1               0.6                      5.0                        *                       100 -
2   (31-Dec-88)        0.1               0.7                      5.8                               5.0         -
3   (31-Xar-89)        0.1               0.°                      6.7                                            U    90.
4   (30-Jun-89)        0.1               0.9                      7.5                              11.0               90
1989   1   (30-Sep-89)        0.1               1.0                      8.3                                           <    80 ]         egiools  Sector Profile/ 
2   (31-Dec-89)        0.2               1.2                     10.0                              17.0                          P Profil du secteur a
3   (31-Mar-90)        0.2               i.4                     11.7                                            e    70         I cbelle regomale
4   (30-Jun-90)        0.3               1.7                     14.2                              24.0
1990   1   (30-Sep-90)        0.2               1.9                     15.8                                                                                    /
2   (31-Dec-90)        0.2               2.1                     17.5                              33.0               50
3   (31-Mar-91)        0.3               2.4                     20.0
4   (30-Jun-91)        0.3               2.7                     22.5                              42.0               40
1991   1   (30-Sep-91)        0.3               3.0                     25.0
2   (31-Dec-91)        0.3               3.3                     27.5                              52.0
3   (31-Mar-92)        0.3               3.6                     30.0                                            >    2                         J=                P
4   (30-Jun-92)        0.4               4.0                     33.3                              61.0                                                    Profil esttif dm
1992   1   (30-Sep-92)        0.3               4.3                     35.8
2   (31-Dec-92)        0.3               4.6                     38.3                              70.0
3   (31-Mar-93)        0.4               5.0                     41.7
4   (30-Jun-93)        0.6               5.6                     46.7                              77.0                  87    88        89      90      91      92        93      94   95
1993   1   (30-Sep-93)        0.7                o,3                    52.5
2   (31-Dec-93)        U.9               7.2                     60.0                              84.0                                   Fiscal Years/An8és budgétaires
3   (31-Mar-94)         1.1              R.3                     69.2
4   (30-Jun-94)        0.9                9.2                    8^.?                              89.0
1994   1   (30-Sep-94)        0.3               20.0                     83.3
2   (31-Dec-94)        0.6               10.6                     88.3                             94.0                A_eawnd date of Credit effectiveuesi for Januzy 19871
3   (31-Mar-95)        0.4               11.0                     91.7                                                 xiae en vigueu  du Cr8dit envisagée e  janier 1987
4   (30-Jun-95)        0.5               11.5                     95.8                             98.0
1995   1   (30-Sep-95)         0.3              11.S                     98.3
2   (31-Dec-95)        0.2               12.0                    100.0                            100.0
WAPED
September 1986



IB3RD 20043
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a P. or,.I                                                                  7
|   '\ bLGERIA                                                  B Pqdo; od)                                              ENE9A
B"UrisAû=lN^><>X*Hf  21 Dagara i9                                      ar                                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
aIaSRLA   si   /   !   i X   >             _                                                          Retrlonal Inspectorates~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l..pctrae
SIMBA~` /\X8NGA >'                                                                                                                       fo v.w .1  o o2Ri9o oud
R    <  --<  LiwSUGAt  +   /    nCpen7     g                                               0  2G  50  E  20 rO,E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rg oalf-e..rt.
M"our    g/FJL;TR;1222   %5t5aS    ,tV  g    |4                                                  rt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ahulCa,tl
j~~~~G                                                                                         mat..                    Dpt.r I  .. d   MAL
\~ ~ ~~HE "^'U'    TH,BELS:-'  D-/                     -o       
DAK                                Y('ZKLAÇg                                                 
E* _ «*Bgro.2                  )   ehiu(            __        __z      _    .    _jMbeouoi
__ #»-- -~~~~~oum%{r\     
`-                                                                 TABoO                        TAMBAINCHOR                                  J  , GIE-ISUESA  )  UNA>'`;SPER18
"for   ï                                                                     r_ 51*âo'    '                                                      |SPEBR18



