Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22956-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
(US$14.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
COMMUNICATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
October 30, 2001
Africa Regional Office
Policy Division
Global Information and Communications Department
Country Department 2



CURRENCY EQUIVALF\ I S
(Exchange Rate Effecti- . :\&.clber 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Meticais (MZM)
MZM 1 = US$0.000044
US$1 = MZM 22,747
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM         - Aeroportos de Mo,cambique - Airport Management Company
CAS         - Country Assistance Strategy
CDM         - Mozambique Post - Correios de Mo,ambique
EMP         - Environmental Monitoring Plan
EMPSP       - Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
EU          - European Union
FMS         - Financial Management System
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOM         - Government of Mozambique
GSM         - Global System for Mobile Communications
IIPC        - Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICT         - Information and Communication Technologies
IDA         - Intemational Development Association
INAC        - Instituto Nacional de Avia9tAo Civil- Civil Aviation Authority
INCM        - Instituto Nacional de Communica,ces de Mo,ambique -
Telecommunication and Postal Regulatory Authority
ISP         - Intemet Service Provider
ITU         - Intemational Telecommunication Union
LAM         - Linhas Aereas de Mocambique - National Airline
MIA         - Maputo Intemational Airport
MPF         - Ministry of Planning and Finance
MTC         - Ministry of Transport and Communications
NAFTA       - North America Free Trade Agreement
NGO         - Non-Govemmental Organization
OMR         - Output Monitoring Report
PMR         - Project Management Report
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
PRSP        - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RPRP        - Railway and Port Rehabilitation Project
SADC        - Southem African Development Community
TA          - Technical Assistance
TDM         - Telecommunica,ces de Mo,ambique
Public Telecommunication Company
UGTPC       - Unidade de Gestelo dos Projectos de Transporte e Comunica,ces
Project Management Unit
VAT         - Value Added Tax
VSAT        - Very Small Aperture Terminal
YD          - Yamoussokro Decision
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:    Darius Mans, AFC02
Sector Manager:      Pierre Guislain, CITPO
Task Team Leader:    Mohammad Mustafa, CITPO



MOZAMBIQUE
COMMUNICATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          14
3. Benefits and target population                                                         15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies             17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                    18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                       19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              21
2. Financial                                                                              22
3. Technical                                                                              22
4. Institutional                                                                          23
5. Environmental                                                                         24
6. Social                                                                                26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                     27



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       27
2. Critical risks                                                                       28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       30
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              30
2. Other                                                                                30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            31
l. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           44
Annex 4: Overview of the Telecomnmunications Sector                                        45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       54
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              58
Annex 11: Financial Management Action Plan                                                 60
Annex 12: Letters of Sector Policy                                                         64
Annex 13: Sector Overview                                                                  74
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 29996



MOZAMBIQUE
Communication Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
CITPO
Date: October 30, 2001                            Team Leader: Mohammad A. Mustafa
Country Director: Darius Mans                     Sector Manager: Pierre A. Guislain
Project ID: P073479                               Sector(s): CC - Telecommunications & Informatics, TY -
Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Telecom & Infonnatics; Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant       [ ] Guarantee    [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 14.9
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.50           0.00          0.50
IDA                                                             2.50          12.40         14.90
Total:                                                          3.00          12.40         15.40
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
Address: P.O. Box 275 - 336, Martires de Inhaminga Av.
Contact Person: Mr. Joao Jorge
Tel: (+ 258) 420 233          Fax: (+258) 431 028            Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005      2006
Annual    2.10        3.80       4.20       3.10       1.70
Cumulative    2.10        5.90      10.10      13.20     14.90
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD Fa r: R , AZO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to improve access and quality of efficient and affordable communications services
by creating an enabling environment for competition and private participation in key sectors deemed critical
to facilitate national and regional market integration, i.e., telecommunications, postal and air transport
infrastructure and serices.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a. Progress towards the development objective will be monitored with the following key performance
indicators:
Impact/Outcome indicators
Telecommunications and Post
*   Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile) to at least double from 0.8 (2000) to 1.6 lines per 100
inhabitants by 2006 as increased competition and new licensing regime induce accelerated network
build-out.
a   Telephone density in rural areas to double from 0.012 lines per 100 inhabitants (2000) to at least
0.024; number of pay phones and other community access points (cybercafes, telecenters) to
communications services to increase once the rural and universal access strategy developed under
this project is implemented.
* International tariffs, mobile tariffs, cost of leased lines and internet access costs to decrease to
regional standards by 2006 as competition increases throughout the sector.
Air transport
D  Passenger and freight traffic volume to increase in line with average regional Southern Africa
Development Community (SADC) growth rates by 2006.
D   Airport services at Maputo International Airport (MIA) to improve through a reduction in airside
fees in line with average aeronautical fees in competing regional airports and an increase in the
number of connections at least equal to that of the average regional connection by 2006.
*   Cost of international and domestic airline tickets to be reduced in line with published economy and
charter fares for competing destinations and similar distances (such as Johannesburg/Mauritius) by
2006.
*   Freight costs to be reduced in line with regional competing destinations by 2006.
Output Indicators
Telecommunications and Post
* The Governmnent shall submit for the approval of the Assembly a new pro-competition
telecommunications law conducive to a multi-operator environment by the second quarter of 2002.
* The Government will enact key telecornmunications secondary legislation by the fourth quarter of
2002.
*   The telecommunications and postal regulator (INCM) is fully operational by the fourth quarter of
2003 and has established monitoring procedures acceptable to the International Devetopment
Association (IDA) to ensure compliance with new legislation and guarantee a level playing field for
sector operators.
-2 -



*   A tender to invite entry of at least two private firms to provide cellular mobile services is launched
and carried out in compliance with transparency and competition rules acceptable to IDA:
- Tender documents released by the fourth quarter of 2001
- Mobile license(s) awarded by the second quarter of 2002
*   Privatization transaction for Telecomunicacoes de Moqambique (TDM) is launched and carried out
in compliance with transparency and competition rules acceptable to the IDA:
- Bids to call for TDM privatization launched by the fourth quarter of 2002
*   The Government adopts a rural and universal access strategy by the second quarter of 2003 and
launches first round of competitive bidding for allocation of limited subsidies to catalyze private
investment in rural service provision by the second quarter of 2004.
*   The Government adopts a postal policy by the first quarter of 2003, postal regulation by the fourth
quarter of 2003 and modemization plan for Correios de Mocambique (CDM) is prepared by the
second quarter of 2004.
Air transport
*  The Government will enact key decrees empowering the Civil Aviation Authority (INAC) to
oversee technical and economic regulation, establishing air transport regulation permitting
immediate entry of charters, and multidesignation of intemational scheduled air services by the
second quarter of 2002.
*   The Government will enact a complete set of secondary legislation by the first quarter of 2003.
*   The INAC is fully operational by the fourth quarter of 2003 and has established monitoring
procedures to ensure compliance with technical and economic regulations, and national
environmental rules acceptable to IDA.
-   Privatization transactions are launched in the time frame below in compliance with transparency
and competition rules acceptable to IDA:
- Bids for MIA are launched by fourth quarter of 2001 and a concession is awarded by the
third quarter of 2002.
- A strategic action plan for introducing private participation in the other airports in the
development corridors is developed by the second quarter of 2002 and adopted by the
third quarter of 2002 by GOM.
- A strategy to invite private participation in Linhas Aereas de Mozambique (LAM) is
adopted by the fourth quarter of 2001 and a tender to invite private participation in the
company is launched by the fourth quarter of 2002.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: IDA/R2000-76 (IFC/R2000-80)    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 1, 2000
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): One of the three main objectives of the 2000 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) is to increase economic opportunities through acceleration of private sector led growth.
The Government's recently adopted Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) (IDA/SecM2001-0550
discussed on September 25, 2001) confirms the importance of this objective in reducing substantially
poverty and improving the living conditions of the population. The project supports the goal of improving
economic opportunities by contributing to the creation of an enabling environment for increased
competition and private investment flows in infrastructure identified in the PRSP as a key constraint to
poverty alleviating growth. In addition, through improving communications routes, the project will foster
the economic integration of the country's remote areas and isolated communities. In that context, the project
supports "second-generation" macro-economic and structural adjustment reforms identified in the Country
- 3 -



Economic Memorandum (CEM: Mozambique: Growth Performance and Reform Agenda (2000)) aimed
at removing impediments to private sector led growth and creating an attractive framework for market
entry; and, at the same time, correcting market failures by appropriate Government intervention, if
necessary.
In telecommunications and post, the CAS envisages IDA assistance to support the development of a new
national telecommunications policy and the preparation of a new law. The project will specifically address
the issues discussed in the CAS, namely the need to open the market to new cellular operators, and at the
same time, seek a private sector equity partner for the state owned telecommunications company to provide
for crucial capital investments and to improve access to services throughout the country. It will also
support the development of a rural and universal access strategy based on "smart-subsidies" to correct for
any market failure and assure increased access to communications and information services for underserved
populations, especially isolated communities in remote areas.
In air transport, the project will directly support the CAS objective of expanding and improving efficiency
of transportation services considered the main constraint to domestic and regional integration and to
tourism development, a sector targeted for its high growth potential. Specifically, the project will achieve
this objective by accelerating de-monopolization of the air transport sector. Liberalization of air services
through the enactment of appropriate policy and legislation, the concession to private operators of the main
airport infrastructures in development corridors and private alliances in the airline business will encourage
increased private sector investments, competition, and facilitate expanded access to high quality and
competitive services. The project will also support the formulation and execution of a strategy to provide
critical social air links and last resort access to remote enclave areas.
This project has been prepared in close coordination with the Structural Adjustment Credit: Economic
Management and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) under preparation. Through supporting reforms in
the air transport and telecommunications sector, the project will also provide technical assistance needed to
meet liberalization and privatization conditionalities under EMPSO.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
a. Inadequate service provision
Mozambique is a large country with an area of approximately 800,000 km2 and a population of 17.3
million. More than two thirds of the population live in absolute poverty, and most of the poor live in the
country's vast and isolated rural areas, where infrastructure and communications are scarce. Only 3.2
percent of the rural population have a public telephone in their own village, while the post office is
available only to 2.7 percent of rural population. Even though, air transport remains the essential vital link
to various parts of the country prone to natural disasters and stretching over more than 2,000 km of coast,
air transport services are characterized by very limited frequency, delays and high cost.
Telecommunications: Telephone service provision in Mozambique is inadequate and uneven.
Mozambique's teledensity of 0.5 main fixed lines per 100 inhabitants (2000) is not only well below to that
of developed countries, but it is also low when compared to other African countries with comparable
geographic and economic conditions. This illustrates the difficulty of the public incumbent in keeping up
with market demand and population growth. In the end of 2000, the fixed network had a switching capacity
of about 128,000 lines from which 86,000 were in service. Real demand is estimated to be well above the
- 4 -



official waiting list of 21,000 lines reported by TDM. There are only about 2,000 public phones. The
network is basically fully digitalized. However, Mozambique ranks low in Africa in terms of quality with
80 faults per 100 main lines (2000).
The urban areas have 99 percent of the telephone lines, while only 1,340 lines are available in rural areas,
which have a population of about 11 million. Large areas are without any communications service with the
nearest telephone and post office hundreds of kilometers away, and 26 of country's 128 districts are
without a single telephone. Mean distance to nearest telephone and post office in rural areas is about 50
kilometers.
Just as in other countries, subscribers of cellular services launched in 1997, have grown exponentially to
reach 62,000 in the beginning of 2001 and are expected to exceed the number of fixed subscribers by end
of the year. As a result of the introduction of pre-paid services, the subscriber base grew by more than 350
percent just within the year 2000. However, the GSM network coverage is limited to Maputo, Beira, and
recently Nampula, the main roads towards South Africa and Swaziland ("the corridor"), Xai-Xai and
Zimbabwe. This leaves about 15.6 million inhabitants uncovered. The unsatisfied demand for mobile
services is estimated to be at least 600,000 by the existing cellular operator, although the total market size
in a competitive market is expected to be even larger.
Despite the fact that Mozambique was the 4th country in Africa to connect to the Internet in 1994, intemet
subscribers are still below 10,000 (although the number of users can be three-four times higher as several
people use one account). There are only few public Internet access points - three cybercenters in Maputo, a
telecenter in Manhica and another one in Namaacha. The main bottlenecks to internet development in
Mozambique remain lack of long-distance transmission facilities, high prices of leased lines, low PC
penetration, limited computer literacy and illiteracy, high prices faced by low income users and lack of
local language content.
Post: During the war many post offices were closed and although some have been recovered during the
1990s, the number of post offices have not yet reached the pre-war level. There are only 10 full-service
post offices located in the provincial capitals, and 450 postal stations, which sell stamps and process mail
throughout the country. The number of mail items delivered per capita per year has been stagnating around
0.4 during the period of 1997-1999, which is very low compared to international standards (7 in Morocco).
The official figure on average mail delivery within a district is three days, but increases to seven days
during the rainy season due to poor road network worsened by floods. In rural areas the delivery times
might be much longer.
Air Transport: To date, Mozambique cannot adequately rely on an air transport system which is efficient
and competitive to (i) meet booming demand from the tourism sector, capture significant tourism flows
estimated to reach US$52 billion by 2010 region-wide, improve domestic opportunities in tourism related
services, a sector targeted for its higher growth potential; (ii) facilitate domestic and regional market
integration, in particular increase regional linkages through the development corridors, and improve trade
logistics of products from distant agricultural areas to commercial markets; and (iii) link remote rural areas
of the country.
Difficulties in current provision of air services are reflected in the leveling off of air transport activity not
due to lack of demand as above-mentioned, but resulting from inadequate service. Air transport provision
from Mozambique is relatively costly, limited in frequency, and uneven in coverage throughout the country.
On the regional segment where competition is becoming more acute, the difficulties in providing efficient
air transport services capable of competing within the region for tourism and trade flows have recently been
- 5 -



reflected in the decelerating traffic levels. Given Mozambique's stellar economic performance with average
10 percent GDP growth levels, air traffic growth should be at least twice these levels. Cost of service
(CASK) is approximately 30 percent higher than air services registered in competing destinations. Tariffs
on similar distance are on average 20 percent higher than those of competitive regional operators.
Stagnation in traffic growth rates can also be accounted partly by the fact that cost of airport services and
aeronautical fees charged at MIA are substantially higher (US$72 per passenger) than competing airports:
Johannesburg (US$29.95), Harare (US$49.57) or Lilongwe (US$54). In contrast to other airports, ADM
relies heavily on aeronautical charges (landing, runways, aircraft parking and passengers fees) for its
revenues (94 percent). The current trend for airports worldwide is to increase the landside charges
(commercial revenues from boutiques, malls, office leasing, car parking etc.), which are less price sensitive
and reduce dependence on aeronautical revenues, which in turn increases airport competitiveness in
attracting other airlines.
On the domestic routes, which are being operated under quasi monopoly, there is low frequency of flights
and the cost of service (CASK) is 30 percent higher than that of competitors on similar distances. The
national carrier LAM enjoys the highest load factor (71 percent) among operators in the region and
registers repeated long passenger waiting list averaging 40 percent of available seats. This indicates that
there is a significant unsatisfied demand and a need to review fleet adequacy. Difficulties in providing
adequate service coverage throughout the country are also illustrated by airport statistics which point to
low traffic volumes 780,000 passengers and 13,352 tons of freight in 2000 and reveal that service is mainly
provided in certain pockets of the country.
Three international airports Maputo, Beira, and Nampula handle the majority (80 percent) of traffic,
whereas the rest is split among the various sixteen principal airports. MIA alone accounted for
approximately 400,000 passengers in 2000. These traffic levels are much lower than the minimum volumes
for efficient air transport infrastructure and operations. Although, Maputo is the biggest airport of the
country, there is room to reach generally accepted economic threshold volume of 1 million passengers for
an airport. Mozambican airports are primarily single-carrier airports as the majority of traffic is handled by
LAM. Most national airports are affected by the limited frequency and high cost of service of the national
carrier (revenue per employee relatively 25 percent lower compared to other regional carriers), resulting
from operations of an expensive fleet and the lack of strategic alliance to spread fixed costs, marketing and
information systems, and upgrade operations.
As a result of the current characteristics of service coverage with an unbalance between passenger demand
and aircraft movements, there is a risk of international and regional traffic being diverted to other
destinations and the regional hub-and-spoke airport Johannesburg (where 11 million passengers can make
up to 30 connections a day) instead of capitalizing on increased linkages with the development corridors
and feeding the domestic market with increased traffic flows, which will ultimately result in increased
frequencies, spreading fixed costs and improved affordability of services.
b. Weak legal framework and regulatory capacity
Legal and regulatory arrangements have not been conducive for effective development of the
telecommunications, postal and air transport sectors. Liberalization and market entry has been slow and
limited to few market segments such as internet, express mail or non scheduled flights on selected domestic
routes. In addition, the newly established regulators, Instituto Nacional das Comunicac6es de Mocambique
(INCM) for teleconmnunications and post; and the Instituto Nacional de Aviacao Civil (INAC) for air
transport are inexperienced in regulating sectors in which competitive private participation is sought. In
-6 -



particular, these authorities lack a degree of independence, as well as financial and human capacity to
effectively oversee multi-operator sectors.
Telecommunications: In November 1999, the Assembly passed Law 14/99 on telecommunications to
accelerate the modernization and liberalization of the sector. The law abolishes restrictions on foreign
participation and opens the way for the privatization of Telecomunicacoes de Mocambique (TDM). The
law also establishes Instituto Nacional das Comunicac6es de Mocambique (INCM) as a separate agency
from MTC (created earlier by Law 22/92 and Decree 23/92 as a department of MTC) and grants it
financial and administrative autonomy. However, the law fails to provide sufficient clarity about INCM's
independence, statute and organization in order to assure that policy and regulatory functions are truly
separated. In addition, while the law opens the mobile segment to competition, it provides for a
"transitional" monopoly on fixed national and international services to TDM until its privatization and for
a minimum of 5-year period after that. Furthermore, its treatment of some vital issues including price
regulation, interconnection, licensing; and convergence of technologies and markets is not satisfactory.
Key secondary legislation, which is critical to establish a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework
still needs to be prepared. The Government has already drafted, although not yet finalized, decrees relating
to: (i) organization and functioning of INCM, (ii) interconnection and (iii) licensing. Other secondary
legislation relating to (iv) tariffs, (v) dispute resolution, (vi) universal service, (vii) frequency spectrum
management and frequency fees, (vii) numbering and (ix) competition still needs to be prepared.
In preparation to competition in mobile services, INCM undertook an evaluation of spectrum use and
prepared a frequency spectrum allocation plan allowing for a multi-operator market. It now needs to
enforce this plan by ordering TDM, who currently uses 50 percent of the channels in the 900 and 1800
MgHZ band, to free sub-bans allocated to potential new operators. An assessment is needed to review the
frequency management system and defme the equipment needed to monitor its use.
INCM lacks financial, human and technical resources to effectively carry out its mission. The regulator
estimates its annual budget needs to be around US$2 million per year, but currently its only source of
revenue is a yearly contribution from TDM in the amount of approximately US$0.4 million. INCM's
budget needs to be reviewed and sources of funding secured if the regulator is to become financially
independent. INCM has inherited administrative staff from the Ministry and a few technical staff from
TDM. It lacks staff with telecommunications and postal regulation expertise. Training, professional
development and outside assistance is much needed.
Post: In 1982, postal services were separated from telecommunications and in 1992, Decree 24/92
transformed the Post to a state owned company, "Correios de Mocambique" (CDM). However, no Law
governing the postal sector has been prepared. INCM was established at the same time to regulate both
postal and telecommunications sectors, but it has no department responsible for overseeing postal sector or
postal expertise among its staff. A proper postal legal framework and regulatory capacity needs to be
developed if the sector is to open up to competition and attract private capital into service provision.
Air transport: In 1996, GOM adopted a Transport Policy aimed at reorganizing sector operations into
commerically oriented autonomous entities and at introducing competition in the domestic market. The
policy was later completed with a set of regulations in August 1998 (Decree 39/98 of August 26, 1998)
organizing the sector as follows: Airport management was entrusted to Aeroportos de Mo,ambique (ADM)
which was incorporated as a limited liability company by a Decree 3/98 of February 10, 1998. The
national carrier Linhas Aereas de Mocambique (LAM) was restructured as a limited liability company and
granted a 5-year monopoly in selected domestic routes as a transition to privatization by Decree 69/98 of
- 7 -



December 23, 1998. This transformation was a reflection of the withdrawal of the State from commercial
functions and part of the Government's overall program of restructuring and privatization of the air
transport sector.
Regulations pertaining to safety and aircraft/carriers licensing were only partially developed. On technical
regulation, Decree 39/98 of August 26, 1998 was enacted to set up a Civil Aviation Authority, "Instituto
Nacional de Aviacao Civil" (INAC). Safety procedures were updated with new procedures in line with
international technical and safety standards (ICAO norms). However, actual operationalization of the civil
aviation authority and technical procedures has not taken place yet. The key barriers to entry remain on the
economic regulation side where series of government authorization and approvals are required for route
allocation, licensing procedures, fare setting and revisions. This approval process has significantly impeded
private sector entry into the sector.
Despite initial efforts towards commercialization of airports, airline operations, and setting up of safety
regulations, the full impact of the liberalization process has not been felt primarily because of the web of
economic regulations, tedious approval process and LAM's dominant position. These barriers to entry have
neither been conducive to traffic development, as illustrated by current decreasing growth rates in the
traffic in the aviation sector and financial difficulty of the main carrier, nor are they in line with GOM's
stated objective of rapid expansion of efficient services. To effectively promote these objectives, the
Government is preparing a far reaching liberalization policy to supervise and monitor charters operations
and multidesignation of carriers on international scheduled flights.
The trend worldwide is towards the adoption of open sky agreements whereby one country (unilateral Open
Sky as the United Arab Emirates, Singapore), two countries or a set of countries (EU, Mercosur, NAFTA)
agree to lift all restrictions on the number of carriers, number of frequencies and type of aircraft. Under the
Yamoussokro Decision (YD), endorsed by the heads of African states in July 2000, a region-wide Open
Sky initiative calling for lifting of flight restrictions (number of carriers, frequencies) within the African
continent will be implemented according to a phased implementation schedule.  Implementation of the
decision has been left to the sub-regional groups.
In Mozambique, implementation to YD will be done under the umbrella of SADC liberalization, which
conforms to YD agreement. The timeframe for implementation by SADC of YD is currently being
discussed in the region. In the meantime, GOM has already initiated this process by adopting an air
transport policy, which is conformed with not only the scheduled and non-scheduled inter-regional air
traffic liberalization principles but also goes beyond towards adopting mutlidesignation for inter-continental
air traffic. Both, the letter of air transport sector policy (Annex 12) and the Civil Aviation Policy, clearly
state that the reform aims at complying with liberalization arrangements which have been agreed under
SADC. Mozambique's air transport legislation needs to be amended to reflect this far reaching continent
reform, and to allow the set up of an environment which will allow Mozambican air transport to take
advantages of the opportunities of this expanded market. Mozarnbican legislation and regulation need to be
enacted to (i) remove all obstacles to licensing charters, carriers and aircrafts; (ii) clarify responsibilities of
each player in the sector and strengthen their oversight ability, and; (iii) clearly define financing
mechanisms for a sustainable development of air navigation services, air services and critical airport
network and social routes.
c. Lack of competition, private investment and know-how
Restrictive legislation and weak regulatory capacity inhibit competitive entry into most of Mozambique's
communications, postal and air transport market. At the same time, the incumbent operators have failed to
- 8 -



provide satisfactory service and are increasingly facing highly competitive environment abroad (e.g.,
TDM's highly priced international telephony service from countries with lower tariffs, Maputo
International Airport from the Johannesburg hub) and substitution at home (e.g., internet telephony, private
courier services or the new Maputo-Johannesburg road) due to lack of commercial management and
sufficient capital.
Telecommunications: The dominance of the incumbent on practically all segments of the sector constitute
a significant barrier to entry for other operators. TDM, the 100 percent state owned operator, is the sole
provider of local, long distance and intemational fixed telephony services in Mozambique. TDM is also the
only provider of mobile services. For the last five years, it has been offering mobile services through an
informal ten year management arrangement (not license) with a joint venture Telecomunicacoes M6veis de
Mocambique (TMM) operated by Detecon (assets are 100 percent TDM owned), but is currently in the
process of establishing a separate wholly owned company to run its mobile business. In addition, TDM has
joint ventures in line installation and maintenance (Televisa is 50 percent owned by Visabeira, a Portuguese
holding company), in cable TV (TVCabo is 50 percent owned by Visabeira), in data, internet, paging and
VSAT services (Teledata, the largest commercial Internet service provider, is 50 percent owned Portugal
Telecom International), as well as in customer premise equipment, consulting, and directory services. TDM
is a profitable company (net profits in 2000 were about US$5.8 million) with revenue per line of about
US$1,300, which is very high compared to the low income country average of US$300. This reflects
TDM's monopoly rent and the low level of penetration.
Post: According to the 1992 Postal decree the Post has a monopoly on basic postal services (collection,
transport, distribution of mail, issue and sale of stamps, telegram and fax services to the public) except
parcel processing. The decree has no specific reference to express mail, but several operators, DHL, FedEx
or Shy, have been authorized by INCM to provide the service. The Post faces increasing difficulty in
retaining its already reduced market share (20 percent) in this profitable market segment; and despite the
Post's exclusive right to deliver basic service, some competitors have started providing regular mail
services. At the same time, the 100 percent state owned postal operator lacks resources to finance even
basic investments, let alone technological improvements or the introduction of new services. Currently, very
few of the post offices provide new products such as public telephone, fax, e-mail, sale of stationary or
financial services, such as money-wiring and government payment delivery (e.g., pensions). While the post
office has been breaking even thanks to end of the year real estate sales, cash donations, provisioning for
foreign exchange losses and extreme budget scrutiny, it finds it more and more difficult to operate and
maintain its oversized network, basically subsidized by the Maputo operations. All postal offices, except
the one in Maputo and Tete, are in deficit and a quarter of the post offices have not registered any revenues
at all since 1995, i.e., their activity has been limited to collecting and distributing mail, with no commercial
service.
Air transport: LAM, a limited liability company (SARL), was created by Decree 69/98 of December 23 by
the sale of 20 percent of the share capital to the current managers, technical staff and employees. The
airline has been enjoying a dominant position on the domestic segment in the country, transporting 55
percent of passengers on domestic routes. It has been facing increasing competition on the regional and
international routes, transporting 11 percent of passengers on regional routes and 14 percent of passengers
on intemational routes. It has also been the quasi sole provider of whole range of services as it integrates
various business areas, with different profiles of strategic positioning and critical factors of success:
Passenger transport; Cargo transport; Light aviation; Maintenance; and Handling. The segment with the
greatest growth levels between 1996 and 2000 were the regional (10.9 percent) and the domestic (8.9
percent). Investments are critically needed in air transport operations so that the provision of air services
can be aligned with the intemational standards to provide competitive services within the SADC region to
-9-



boost both domestic and regional traffic revenues. In comparison to other airlines, LAM has very limited
market presence in the region to capture premium traffic from regional and international travellers.
Without strategic alliance to a major airline group and adequate capital inflow, the airline does not benefit
from economies of scale as a feeder to other international or charter airlines or the presence of a hub and
spoke airport in the country to serve traffic connections from international and regional airports both in and
through Mozambique. In addition, Maputo International Airport operates in a very competitive
environment with the proximity of several international airports and a hub in Johannesburg located within a
radius of less than 400 km from Maputo. LAM does not benefit either from economies of scope in terms of
marketing, information and reservation systems, frequent flyer programs and other electronic commerce
amenities, all of which are sought by today's travelers when selecting an airline. These resulting high costs
of operations make it difficult to face competition and attract more traffic. As a result, LAM is currently in
financial distress with a US$2 million loss for 2000 and a 20 percent decrease in its share of capital and is
unable to finance critically needed investments to support development of air services in line with the
growing demand.
Government Strategy
Telecommunication: The Ministry of Transport and Communication (MTC) is in the process of developing
a new telecommunication policy, that will be guided by the following main principles: (i) promotion of
competition to meet growing demand through the liberalization of the telecommunications market and
awarding new mobile telephony licenses, (ii) ensuring that the govermment divests its interest in the
state-owned telecommunication entity, TDM; and (iii) promoting universal access to communications
services. The Cabinet adopted the policy on October 30, 2001. The Government is also committed to enact
necessary laws and regulations in support of the implementation of the telecommunication policy and to
ensure effective competition and strong and independent sector regulation. A letter of sector policy
embodying these underlying principles has been prepared and sent to Bank management on August 15,
2001 (see Annex 12).
Information and Communications Technologies: An Information and Communications Technologies (ICT)
Committee has been established under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister to prepare a national ICT
strategy for Mozambique. The draft strategy prepared highlights six priority areas: education, health,
human resources, universal access, information infrastructure and government, in which coordinated
public-private action is needed to foster ICT use and development. The draft strategy was presented at a
conference in October 2001 bringing together various partners active in the area.
Post: MTC intends to define a new postal sector strategy to ensure that accessibility to reliable postal
services is improved, while at the same time taking the opportunity to develop new services (e-mail,
marketing or financial services) and to rationalize the network to allow commercial viability of the postal
entity in an open environment. Different options of private entry (e.g., through private partnerships,
management contract, concessionning) into the main postal operator will also be considered to bring private
capital, management skills, technology and know how into the currently inefficient entity.
Air Transport: Cabinet has enacted a new air transport policy on October 30, 2001 to (i) promote
immediate liberalization of the skies; (ii) promote private sector led competition and investments to upgrade
air services, air navigation services and airport infrastructure to meet fast growing demand, (iii) privatize
the main carrier and airports to attract traffic flows and reduce tariffs, and; (iv) provide expanded access
throughout the country for social routes. The main principles of the new policy will be to evolve the sector
from its current regulated structure to a liberalized environment in compliance with the regional
- 10-



liberalization agreements reached under the YD umbrella and implemented under SADC agreement. The
new policy is aimed at reconciling possible conflicting legislation, enacting the necessary new legislation &
regulation, and promoting standardized regional licensing procedures. Facilitating a friendly environment
for investments will allow the sector to expand and align Mozambican air transport to the key drivers of
competitiveness in air transport worldwide. Under a deregulated environment, the government will apply
economic regulation only to prevent and/or revert the abuse of any monopolistic control of the market,
dumping, and/or predatory practices. This withdrawal of the State will encourage private sector
participation in the provision. A letter of sector policy stating the key principles of the new policy was
finalized and was sent to the Bank management on August 15, 2001 (see Annex 12). A seminar to discuss
the new proposed air transport policy among stakeholders was held in Maputo 12-13th of September and
was attended by 85 delegates from the public, private sector and civil society.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed by the proiect
The project will assist the Government in its telecommunications, postal and air transport sector reform
efforts. It will address two key set of sector issues:
Establishing a legal framework and strengthening regulatory capacity to implement a pro-competitive
environment:
*   Establishment of a modem regulatory framework to lay the foundation for open, market-driven
telecommunications, postal and air transport sectors.
•   Implementation of a telecommunications liberalization policy starting with the award of two new
mobile licenses to private investors and removing legal barriers to competitive provision of
international services.
*   Promotion of ICT development and use in Mozambique through enabling legislation.
3   Development of a postal sector policy and modernization strategy for the postal operator aiming to
introduce new services and attract private management and investment.
*   Implementation of an air transport liberalization strategy to promote competition for long-term
sustainable development and upgrading the sector sub-components: air navigation, air services,
infrastructure of the air transport sector.
*   Formulation and implementation of a strategy to improve safety and security in air navigation.
*   Enacting decrees to empower INCM and INAC as autonomous regulatory agencies, responsible to
oversee both technical and economic regulations in the telecommunications and postal; and air
transport sectors, respectively.
*   Building capacity both at the policy and the regulatory level by supporting training and providing
expertise to MTC, LNCM, and INAC throughout the project.
Promoting private sector led investments:
*   Design and implementation of a privatization strategy for TDM, private participation in the airport
system and LAM.
*  Development of a rural communications strategy, as well as establishment and provision of seed
financing for a universal access fund to support market based allocation of "smart subsidies" to
stimulate private capital for the provision of rural information and communications services.
*  Promotion of financing mechanisms for the sustainable development of the critical airport network,
social routes and air navigation services in line with recent regional Open Skies initiatives such as
the Yamoussokro Decision and SADC.
- 11 -



*   Defining and clarifying the roles of various authorities in the telecommunications, postal and air
transport sector - MTC, INAC, INCM and ADM - to achieve the most efficient and transparent
regulatory framework to attract maximum participation from private operators.
Stratesic choices
GOM has developed comprehensive telecommunication, postal and air transport policies and has already
sent to Bank management "Letter of Telecommunications Sector Policy" and a "Letter of Air Transport
Sector Policy" sumnmarizing the main objectives and actions envisaged. The following key strategic choices
have been already been made and are reflected in the policies and project design:
Degree of liberalization of telecommunications sector:
International access: The Government has examined the benefits of opening up international services to
competition and the possible negative effects on TDM's revenues. Competition is expected to result in
better and cheaper services to consumers. Given the fact that TDM has already implemented a tariff
rebalancing program and increasingly relies on revenues from domestic and new (cellular, leased lines)
services rather than on revenues generated from incoming and outgoing international calls (only about 28
per cent of revenues in 2000); the Government is keen on opening up international services to competition.
As a first step, the GOM has decided to remove legal constrains in this regard and to pursue an early
amendment of Article 40 of the current Law 14/99 which currently grants a transitional monopoly to TDM
on international access for a minimum of five years starting on the day of its privatization. This amendment
will enable the regulator to grant licenses for the provision of international services.
Number of mobile licenses and services to be offered: With assistance of consultants recruited under the
PPF, the Government has studied international best practices and the domestic market to determine the
number of mobile licenses to be awarded through the upcoming tender (one or two) and the services offered
(with or without international gateway). Regarding the number of licenses, given the (i) estimated market
size, (ii) availability of frequencies, (iii) benefits to consumers of increased competition and (iv) advantages
in terms of reducing risk of collusion typical for monopoly markets; the GOM has decided to award two
licenses in addition to TDM. Conceming the issue whether future mobile operators should also be
authorized to have their own international access and provide international services, the Government has
decided to ask their advisors to request potential bidders for the mobile licenses to submit two separate
financial bids, one with and another without international services. This will allow the GOM to evaluate its
options in light of the bids received, as well as the outcome of the Assembly's consideration of the
amendment of Article 40 of the Law. In any case, mobile operators will be allowed to build their own
national long distance infrastructure.
Degree of liberalization and private participation in air transport sector:
Sequencing of open sky policy implementation, MIA concession, and private sector involvement in LAM:
To accelerate the reform pace, GOM has already undertaken specific steps to formulate new air transport
policy and to bring in private sector participation in the sector, such as calling expression of interests and
prequalifying international operators for the concessionning of MIA, and LAM entering into a commercial
agreement including code sharing with South African Airways. The sector policy and key regulation for
adequate oversight of sector operations will be enacted prior to the call for final bids for the MIA and the
launch of private participation schemes in LAM. Implementation of the sector policy in conformity to the
SADC and YD agreements will be an important factor to enhance the private sector participation in the air
transport sector. The monopolistic nature of some air transport activities make this sequencing very
- 12 -



important specially in a small market size. In terms of sequencing the liberalization and privatization
efforts, the sector policy, which entails (i) reorganizing the sector along clear lines of responsibilities for
each institution involved, such as the regulator, the airport authority, the private sector; and (ii)
operationalizing economic regulations with award licensing procedures, will be implemented during the
upcoming 12 months. During this period pre-privatization restructuring to stabilize the carrier operations
until privatization closure will take place. Drawing from lessons of successful air transport reforms and the
recent diagnostic conducted by an international firm, the Government will adopt in the fourth quarter of
2001, a restructuring and private sector participation strategy to allow the company to enter into a strategic
alliance either through the transfer of a controlling stake or private management to an airline operator. At
closure of LAM transaction, new entrants in the domestic sector will be authorized with the same
obligations as LAM.
Private versus public ownership: The Government has opted to introduce private capital and management
into the telecommunications and air transport sectors directing public resources into social sectors, which is
fully consistent with its macroeconomic (described under HIPC, EMPSO) and poverty reduction strategy to
place human development at the center of its efforts to boost and sustain the economic and social
development of the country. The GOM plans to gradually liberalize the telecommunications, postal and air
transport sector and create an enabling environment for entry of new private players into these markets
such as cellular operators, internet service providers, mail shipping companies and/or private airlines. In
addition, it is envisaged that the shares of the public telecommunications and air transport operator, with
management control, will be offered for sale to a strategic partner and strategic regional alliance will be
entered between the national airline and private operators.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will have two major components assisting a reform process in telecommunications and post
sectors and in the air transport sector respectively. In addition, the project will assist in strengthening
project management, procurement and financial management capacity to ensure effective project
implementation, as well as assure the effective information dissemination and communication
throughout the project. Two Project Preparation Facilities (PPF) have been used for preparation of
some of the tasks under the components, namely the preparation of telecommunications sector policy,
launching of bidding process for cellular licenses, development of an air transport policy, preparation
of the Maputo International Airport concession package, and carrying out an environmental pre-audit.
The table below summarizes the indicative project costs by component including the Project
Preparation Facilities of US$1.2 million.
Indicative              Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(UPSM)    Total       (US$M)  financing
1. Telecommunication and postal    Telecommnunications    9.70       63.0       9.40       63.1
sector reform                      & Informatics
2. Air transport sector reform     Other Transportation    5.50       35.7       5.30      35.6
3. Project management and                                  0.20        1.3       0.20        1.3
implementation
Total Project Costs                     15.40      100.0      14.90     100.0
Total Financing Required                       15.40      100.0      14.90     100.0
- 13 -



(1) The telecommunication reform component has a total cost of US$9.7 million and includes the following
sub-components:
1.1 Development of a telecommunications policy, strengthening policy    US$0.9
capacity and awarding two cellular licenses to private operators
1.2 Preparation of a comprehensive telecommunications and postal legal  US$3.4
and regulatory framework including strengthening of INCM
1.3 Privatization of TDM                                       US$1.2
1.4 Strategy for market based universal access including establishment of US$3.5
a universal service fund and provision of seed money for rural
operations
1.5 Information and communications technology enabling legislation  US$0.5
1.6 Development of postal sector policy and modernization plan  US$0.2
(2) The air transport reform component has a total cost of US$ 5.5 million and includes the following
sub-components:
2.1 Development of air transport policy and regulatory framework; and   US$0.6
air transport policy unit strengthening
2.2 Strengthening of INAC regulatory capacity                  US$3.3
2.3 Restructuring and private participation scheme of LAM      US$1.0
2.4 Granting airport concessions                               US$0.6
(3) The project management and implementation component has a total cost of US$ 0.2 million and
includes the following sub-components:
3.1 Strengthening project management, procurement and financial  US$0.1
management capacity, including project audit
3.2 Communications campaign, information and dissemination    US$0.1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support key policy and institutional reforms at the core of the CAS and PRSP:
Creation of an improved market friendly business environment:
*   Development of new pro-liberalization policies for the telecommunication, postal and air
transport sectors.
*   Opening these sectors to progressive competition; and awarding of licenses or authorizations to
private operators and service providers on liberalized market segments.
*   Assistance in operationalizing an ICT strategy and designing enabling legislation.
Promotion of private sector participation in key infrastructure sectors:
*   Privatization of TDM, private sector participation in LAM and the airport system through
competitive and transparent bidding process.
*   Design and establishment of a universal access fund; and providing seed financing for rural
connectivity using market based mechanisms to allocate well targeted smart subsidies.
*   Design of a modernization plan for the postal entity examining various options for private
- 14 -



sector participation.
Inproved governance:
*   Build capacity in MTC through establishing sector policy units, and in the Regulators
responsible for effective enforcement of transparent rules of operation through extensive
training and technical assistance.
*   Strengthen project management, procurement and financial management capacity at MTC.
*   Inform and consult stakeholders throughout the project through publications and workshops.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit the population as a whole in Mozambique by increasing the availability and
affordability of traditional and modem telecommunications, postal and air transport services. The
introduction of competition and a more effective regulatory framework will lead to more competitive
services in terms of price, quality and variety. The improvement and expansion of telecommunication,
internet, postal, and air transport services will contribute to sustainable economic growth.
Businesses, especially small and medium enterprises, which increasingly depend upon communications
services to be competitive, will benefit from lower costs and a greater variety of value added services. A
modem telecommunications framework, ensuring market innovations and competition, will make
Mozambique more attractive to foreign investors. For residential consumers, expanding and improving
telecommunications and postal services will help reduce the waiting time to be connected and reduce
information isolation for the population living in remote and rural areas.
In the air transport sector, benefits are expected to be significant for the local private sector as the
improved efficiency of transport services will have a direct impact on tourism-related services and
businesses, a sector where prospects are the highest in terms of growth. The benefits of improved access,
competitive rates, and modernization of airport infrastructure in the development corridor will spill over
through a multiplier effect to boost tourism and increase linkages for regional and national trade. Increased
traffic flows and reduced transaction costs will encourage entry of small local providers of tourism-related
services and thereby job creation in the local market. Reduced transaction costs in trade logistics will create
better trade and market opportunities for certain agribusinesses as benefits will accrue in the form of more
frequent, reliable, and competitively priced air services which can help improve on-time delivery of
products to key markets.
Turning to the potential impact of the project on the poor, there are strong reasons to believe that the
project could improve equity. Numerous studies have demonstrated that telephone and transport access
increases the incomes of and quality of service provision to poor people. Studies also suggest that lack of
telephone access is one factor behind increasing income inequality within countries. By promoting
universal access goals, this project should ensure that telephony is a pro-poor technology in Mozambique.
- 16-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementing agency will be the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). For this purpose
MTC will work in close cooperation with INCM and INAC. The Unidade de Gestao dos Projectos de
Transporte e Comunicacoes (UGPTC) has been assigned as the project management unit within MTC.
UGPTC will be responsible for preparing and implementing all donor funded transport, communications
and postal projects executed under the MTC, including the Communications and Sector Reforrn project.
UGPTC will be headed by a Project Manager who will report directly to the Minister. UGPTC will also be
assisted by several Task Teams on: (i) Telecom and Postal Regulation; (ii) Telecom and Postal Policy; (iii)
Civil Aviation; (iv) TDM-Privatization, (v) LAM-Privatization and (vi) Airport Concessions (a more
detailed description is provided in Section E.4 of the PAD).
The project will be implemented over a four year period from March 31, 2002 to March 31, 2006. The
Project Manager, together with the chairpersons of the various Task Teams, will be responsible for
monitoring progress via performance indicators and preparing periodic progress reports. Monitoring and
evaluation will be guided by the Project Design Summary in Annex 1 and the Borrower's Project
Implementation Manual which specifies reporting responsibilities for each component, and requires the
generation and submission to the Bank of quarterly progress reports.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project approach is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the telecommunication, postal and
air transport sectors, which calls for shifting the government's role from ownership and operations to policy
making and regulation, promoting efficiency and service quality, and increased private sector participation
in investrnents and provision of services.
Limited assistance for mobile license award versus a comprehensive sector reform: The Government's
comprehensive reform plan is consistent with the Bank's strategy. However, given the political pressure to
award a mobile license in 2001, there was a risk that the Government would proceed without first
establishing a proper regulatory framework. Hence, a PPF has been approved in order to (i) respond
rapidly to GOM's request for assistance, (ii) ensure a transparent and competitive bidding process for the
mobile license, and (iii) set up an adequate legal and regulatory framework before implementing the
liberalization policy. The original Government request for limited assistance to design and carry out of the
first competitive bidding process to award mobile license(s) was expanded following extensive discussions
and presentations of lessons learned from international experiences, which demonstrated that the lack of a
comprehensive reform could result in a possible failure of the transaction. After studying these experiences,
the Government decided to develop a sector policy and prepare crucial secondary legislation (i.e., on
INCM's statute and organization, interconnection and licensing) prior to the launching of the bidding
process for the licenses to assure a level playing field and raise investor's confidence.
Assistance limited to telecommunications and transport sector reform versus including the postal sector:
The Ministry of Transport and Comnmunications is determined to implement a comprehensive
telecommunications and air transport reform program. However, the question of appropriate timing for
postal sector reforrn was raised by the Ministry. On the one hand, developing the postal sector in parallel
with telecommunications would allow for exploring the synergies between these networks in ICT service
delivery throughout the country. On the other hand, given the limited capacity in the Ministry and the
Regulator, it may be difficult to implement and secure public support for parallel reforms in
telecommunications and postal sectors, especially since MTC is also overseeing the ongoing air transport
- 16 -



sector restructuring. Therefore, it was agreed to limit assistance to the postal sector under this project to the
development of a postal sector policy, preparation of postal legislation and preparation of a modernization
plan for the postal operator. This will allow the Government to define the strategic directions and legal
framework and to decide on future operations and necessary follow up assistance.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Macroeconomic and structural reformns: Economic Management and
Conditionalities linked to         Private Sector Operation (under
telecommunications and air transport  preparation)
Private sector development: business   Enterprise Development Project  S            S
environment, Commercial Code       (PODE)
Legal and public sector capacity   Legal and Public Sector            S             S
building                           Capacity Building Project
Transport: MTC restructuring, project Railway and Port Restructuring  S             S
management capacity building       Project
Energy: rural access issues        Urban Household Energy             S             S
Project (closed in 1998)
Rural Energy Project (under
preparation)
Education: Community Information    Higher Education Project
Centers and teacher training programs  (under preparation)
Air Transport: Regulatory and      Regional Integration Program
structural reforms in the regional
(SADC) aviation sector.
Other development agencies
USAID                              - Education for Democracy and
Development (leland) Initiative
program supported internet
connectivity in the country
through subsidizing ISPs access
to bandwith
- Internet for Economic
Development (IED) initiative
launched 1998 to help
accelerate the spread of the
Internet in the country
- Ongoing technical assistance
to MTC restructuring and
capacity building
- Regional Telecommunications
Restructuring Project (SADC)
-Air Transport: Regulatory and
- 17 -



structural reforms in the
regional (SADC) aviation
sector.
International Development Research    - Acacia Initiative: Provided
Centre (IDRC), Canadian Government VSAT to link the University in
Maputo to the South African
University internet system
(UNINET)
- Established Telecenters in
Manhica and Namaacha
Agence Francaise de Developpement   Investment in TDM network
World Links Program                Distance education program
Department for International
Development (DFID), based in UK    Air Transport: Regulatory and
structural reforms in the
regional (SADC) aviation
sector.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following lessons were learned and reflected in the project design from:
a. Telecommunication, postal and air transport restructuring projects around the world:
* A clear and reliable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attract private investment into these
sectors.
*   The  establishment  of  self-financed  and  effective  regulatory  entities  to  award
licenses/authorizations, solve disputes among operators and service providers, and protect
consumer interest, is essential for the development of efficient competitive markets.
*   The policy for the telecommunications sector should include a set of incentives to promote access
to services to remote populations and to improve the affordability of services to the poor in both
rural and urban areas. Preference should be given to private sector led initiatives and smart
subsidies to assure sustainability.
*   The implementation of a comprehensive air transport reform  covering all interdependent
subcomponents of the sector is critical in ensuring the promotion of safe and sustainable air
transport services. Liberalization of economic regulation should be accompanied by airport
upgrading to avoid bottlenecks at entry point for new carriers, simultaneously safety procedures
and air navigation services need to be improved.
b. Other infrastructure and/or privatization projects in Mozambique:
*   Examining the experience of the railway privatization (Railway and Port Restructuring Project -
approved on October 14, 1999), and in specific the delays and complexity of the retrenchment
issues, it was felt that such issues are better dealt by the Government using its own procedures
rather than through a technical assistance project. The Government may consider to use part of the
resources received under the structural adjustment credit under preparation (EMPSO) for this
purpose.
*   Experience in the energy sector (Uurban Household Energy Project - approved on June 8, 1989 and
closed on April 30, 1998) with licensing independent rural operators and allowing them to charge
cost-effective tariffs (higher than the uniform tariff offered by the incumbent) has so far indicated
- 18-



that people were able to pay the higher tariffs, and that access stimulated new demand. Under the
rural and universal access component of this project several institutional options will be examined
to leverage on existing demand and bring services to remote areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In the telecommunications sector the Government has already
*   The GOM adopted a Telecommunications Sector Policy on October 30, 2001.
*   Launched a comprehensive telecommunications sector reform geared towards the provision of efficient,
universally accessible, reliable and affordable services.
*  Requested Bank's assistance in this process and a project preparation advance has already been
approved allowing for the financing of upfront activities.
* Appointed international consultant, financed under the PPF, to assist (i) in preparing a
telecommunications sector policy which already been drafted, (ii) drafting key secondary legislation
and (iii) awarding mobile license(s).
*  Established a Telecommunications Policy Unit within MTC.
*   Sent to IDA management a Letter of Telecommunications Sector Policy (Annex 12), which embodies
the following commitments:
Policy and regulation:
-   The GOM will prepare an offer to the World Trade Organization (WTO) that would meet the terms of
the Reference Paper (especially in terms of interconnection, universal service, regulatory independence,
and spectrum) under the 4th protocol of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
e   The GOM  and INCM  will review the regulatory framework and prepare a new pro-competition
telecommunications law to be submitted for the Cabinet's approval by March 31, 2002.
*  In the interim, the GOM enacted decrees on INCM organization, interconnection, licensing.
- The Government will take steps to ensure that responsibility for price regulation in the
telecommunications sector will be moved to INCM.
New licenses
* The GOM has already launched the process to grant two licenses to financially and technically capable
finrms to provide cellular services. The licenses will be awarded through a competitive and transparent
award process. The tender documents were issued and the new licenses are expected to be awarded by
June 30, 2002.
* The Government has studied new trends in international and domestic markets, and decided to revisit
the monopoly on intemational services. It has submitted for the approval of the Assembly an
amendment of Article 40 of the current Telecommunications Law 14/99 to end TDM's monopoly on
the provision of intemational services. The amendment will also allow new mobile operators to build
their own national long distance transmission networks.
Privatization
*   A controlling ownership interest (preferably 51 percent or more) in TDM shall be offered for sale to
private investors in the most transparent manner. This is expected to be completed by the end 2002.
Privatization advisers will be appointed by the GOM by end of 2001.
*   In preparation for the forthcoming competition and TDM's privatization, TDM will establish its
mobile, Internet and international services as separate business units from the rest of its business. The
new business units will have their own separate accounts by December 3 1, 2001.
In the postal sector, the Government has raised the need to assist the post in developing new services in an
- 19 -



increasingly competitive environment and during appraisal an initial assessment has been carried out in
close cooperation with the postal operator. The Govermment will study the findings of this and other studies
to be carried out under the project; and prepare a postal sector policy and modernization plan.
In air transport, the Government has already
*   Adopted an Air Transport Sector Policy on October 30, 2001.
*   Embarked on a comprehensive reform to modernize and improve its air transport system with the
intention to provide safe, efficient and affordable air services to meet country's needs.
*   Requested Bank assistance to assist in the execution of a comprehensive reform  covering all
interrelated subcomponents of air transport.
*   Completed the prequalification phase of the concession for MIA and has prequalified four intemational
consortia in April 2001.
*   Launched in July 2001 the second phase of the concession process with the recruitment of an
international consultant to advise on the Concession closure process of the Maputo International
Airport.
*   Completed by Decree 69/98 of December 23, 1998 LAM's first phase of privatization with
incorporation of the company as limited liability and sale of 20 percent of shares to its current
managers, technical staff, and employees.
* Appointed in May 2001 an international consultant, financed under the PPF to assist in the drafting of
an air transport policy. The draft policy has already been submitted to the government.
*   Established a Civil Aviation Unit within MTC with agreed composition and staff profile.
*   Sent to IDA management a Letter of Air Transport Sector Policy (Annex 12), which details the
following key reform drivers:
Policy and regulation:
The Government will
*   Enact by the second quarter of 2002 key decrees empowering INAC to oversee technical and economic
regulation, revising ADM statutes and enacting ait transport economic regulation, which will permit
opening of all non scheduled traffic to any provider. It will also draft legislation, which will provide
for free licensing for scheduled domestic flights and for multi-designation of carriers for international
scheduled operations.
*   Enact by the first quarter of 2003 a complete set of coherent legislation and regulation to ensure that
clear rules of sector oversight, sustainable financing mechanisms for the sector, in particular for
maintaining the critical airport network, technical and economic regulation including a market based
mechanism for the provision on air services on social routes are being implemented.
Privatization:
*   The GOM has already prequalified four intemational airport consortia for the concession of Maputo
Intemational Airport in April 2001. This first phase was launched in December 2000. The concession
will be awarded following competitive and transparent procedures. Tenders for final bids will be
issued during the fourth quarter of 2001 and the concession will be granted by the third quarter of
2002.
*   GOM has launched an expression of interest in August 2001 for advisory services to develop strategies
to invite private sector participation in the management and investment of the airports in the Northem
development corridors, namely Nacala, Nampula and Pemba.
*   GOM will adopt by the third quarter of 2002 a Master plan to invite private participation in the
airports in the development corridors to upgrade infrastructure to meet expected traffic increases.
* The Govemrnment has launched the second phase of LAM's restructuring and privatization process. A
diagnostic of the national carrier was carried out in June 2001 by an international audit firm. It
- 20 -



concluded on building LAM's strengths in the domestic and regional aviation markets and in the area of
maintenance and handling. In addition, the diagnostic analysis encouraged private participation to
make the airline sustainably profitable and competitive with the upcoming changes in the Mozambican
air transport sector. A restructuring and privatization strategy will be adopted and LAM privatization
advisors will be appointed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is uniquely placed to assist GOM in the provision of support for its planned telecommunication,
postal and air transport reform program, given its: (a) experience in the process of regulatory reform, in
promoting private sector participation in these sectors, and in setting up of accompanying legal and
institutional regulatory framework; (b) regional role, particularly through its support to SADC in
coordination with other donors to ensure that national reforms in the telecommunication, postal and air
transport sectors are in harmony with broader regional objectives; (c) extensive knowledge and experience
in privatization of large public enterprises and project finance of infrastructure projects in IDA countries
and its expertise in designing reform programs encouraging both foreign direct and local investments; and
(d) its proven catalytic role in mobilizing private investment in telecommunications infrastructure and
services in remote areas through establishing universal service funds and providing limited seed money for
operators to extend service to remote areas.
The involvement of IDA facilitates the establishment of a viable framework for sector reforms and
enforcement of regulations necessary to bring about benefit for the country's overall development. Private
sector participants, in telecommunications and air transport projects, would look favorably towards IDA's
support so that there is constructive partnership between the government undertaking and the private
sponsor. This partnership will allow sharing of risks and responsibilities within a well positioned
framework defined by the Government itself. In the context of adverse global investment climate, and
possible adverse consequences on foreign direct investment, IDA experience and large array of products in
risk mitigation can be quickly deployed to reaffirm GOM's commitment and encourage private
participation.
The importance and the strategic focus of IDA's portfolio in Mozambique will bring invaluable benefits in
articulating a liberalization and privatization program of the telecommunications, post and air transport
sectors consistent with broader policy reforms and building on several linkages, particularly in terms of
growth and poverty alleviation; fiscal policy; public expenditure program; education and health reforms;
and environment mitigation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
While a detailed economic analysis may not be necessary given the small size and nature (technical
assistance) of the project, an estimate of costs and benefits can be made given the relative size of the
economy and this project; and the institutional and economic impacts expected.
The project focuses on institutional and policy reforms which, if successfully implemented, will enable
supply, range, quality, and prices of telecommunication, postal, and air transport services to evolve
favorably for consumers. Enacting regulatory framework for ICTs is expected to increase intemet use in
- 21 -



businesses and government. Advanced information services also have wide-ranging applications in health
care and education, and these will become more accessible as network capacity increases and more
affordable as prices fall. Liberalizing the aviation sector will have a direct impact on the tourism industry
and the overall GDP growth of the country. Deregulation and enactment of policy reforms are an essential
step to increase competition from both the domestic and private sector participants to attract more efficient
and quality services.
Beyond the immediate impact of this project through stimulating growth in the telecommunications, postal
and air transport sectors, there will be significant knock-on benefits for the broader economy. Looking first
at the likely fiscal impact, telecommunications, and air transport reforms will increase sector revenues and
so raise fiscal transfers. Further, it is likely that overall employment in these and related sectors (tourism,
information technology, etc.) will rise as multiple private operators enter the market. More efficient ICT
and air transport services will enhance general economic competitiveness over the medium term. Increased
access to international markets will allow for reduced purchasing costs and provide new export
opportunities, especially in the services sector. This efficiency will facilitate the spillover effects through
reducing transaction costs in the rest of the economy. As all industries make use of communications
services in production, lower costs will be reflected in lower producer prices and better competitiveness,
thus fostering non-inflationary output growth.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the small size and nature (technical assistance) of the project, a detailed financial analysis may not
be necessary. However, fiscal impacts can be estimated based on expected revenues and Government
spending.
Fiscal Impact:
The project will have a significant positive fiscal impact as revenues can be expected from Government
divestiture of LAM, the airport system, and TDM (even if part of the proceeds may remain with the
privatized entities in case of capitalization), as well as from various license fees, including for mobile. On
the other hand, possible redundancies resulting from the privatizations may in the short term require
government spending on compensations. Overall fiscal impact is expected to be largely positive in the
medium term as increased private investment and operating efficiency will definitely broaden the tax base
and boost sector revenues, which in turn will result in increased corporate and VAT tax revenues.
3. Technical:
The proposed key performance indicators above, which are detailed in Annex I have been developed on the
basis of Government sector objectives. Depending on the investors market general appetite, actual bids
proposals from private operators and final negotiations, these targets may have to be revisited during the
course of the project to reflect final contractual arrangements reached between the Government and private
operators.
The project will establish an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract and sustain
investment in the telecommunication, postal, and air transport sectors. Under this framework, technology
choices, marketing, and capital investments in these sectors will be market-driven.
With the expanded reliance internationally and in Mozambique in recent years on less expensive and more
cost-effective wireless technologies for provision of mobile and fixed telecommunications services, efficient
allocation of radio frequencies has become a high priority. Currently, INCM lacks the adequate up-to-date
- 22 -



equipment to manage and oversee frequency allocation and its use. Based on the findings of the assessment
of the spectrum management and monitoring needs, the proposed project will finance new radio spectrum
monitoring systems, that will be procured on a cost-effective basis.
4. Institutional:
MTC faces an ambitious schedule for carrying out a set of closely inter-related project activities which are
relatively novel and complex for the Borrower. A draft Borrower's Project Implementation Manual was
prepared at appraisal and defines the project objectives and scope, roles and responsibilities of various
agencies involved, project implementation arrangements, financial management action plan, procurement
plan, reviews and progress reporting, environmental assessment, as well as a timetable to be closely
followed for successful and timely project execution.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) will be the executing agency of this project. For this
purpose, MTC will work closely with other agencies involved such as INCM and INAC. MTC established
a Telecommunications and an Air Transport policy unit, that will guide the strategic thinking in the
communication and air transport sectors. In addition, the Ministry is considering to appoint a public
relations specialist to facilitate information flow and consultations with the different stakeholders, including
TDM, MIA and LAM, during the reform process. In termns of capacity building, local and foreign technical
assistance and training are envisaged for MTC to develop policy skills, for the Regulatory Authorities to
develop their economic, technical, and legal skills; and for the postal operator to help implement the
modernization strategy which will be developed under the project.
4.2 Project management:
The Unidade de Gestao dos Projectos de Transporte e Comunicacoes (UGPTC), the department responsible
for management of donor funded projects executed by the Ministry, will be responsible for project
management. (It supersedes Gabinete dos Projectos Maritimos (GAPROMAR), a current department in
MTC). UGPTC will be headed by a Project Manager and staffed with an economist, a procurement
specialist, a translator and an administrative assistant and two project accountants, one of whom will be
dedicated to the Communications Sector Reform Project. UGPTC will also be assisted by several Task
Teams: (i) Telecom and Postal Regulation; (ii) Telecom and Postal Policy; (iii) Civil Aviation; (iv)
TDM-Privatization, (v) LAM-Privatization and (vi) Airport Concessions. UGPTC has been providing
support for the implementation of several among MTC's Bank-funded projects; and is currently being
strengthened under the Railway and Port Rehabilitation Project (RPRP) through assistance to reinforce its
project and financial management capacity with a special emphasis on on-the-job training. A Project
Management Team including the Project Manager, the heads of the various Task Teams, the procurement
specialist and the project accountant will meet regularly to review project progress.
4.3 Procurement issues:
All procurement will be done in accordance with Bank guidelines. The draft Borrower's Project
Implementation Manual includes detailed arrangements for project procurement procedures. UGPTC will
monitor and coordinate all procurement and financial management related information for project
implementation. UGPTC is already familiar with procurement policies as it has managed Bank financed
projects earlier. A Project Manager and a Procurement Specialist will be appointed at the UGPTC with
experience in the selection, management and evaluation of consultants and procurement of goods. In
addition, the Task Teams (as mentioned above), will be composed of technical, financial, and legal
specialists to execute procurement of goods, works and consultants under their area of expertise in
coordination with UGPTC. An appraisal of the institutional capacity in terms of procurement was
completed in September 2001.
- 23 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
Under the supervision of the Chief of the Finance Department of MTC, a Project Accountant will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to the
Government, the World Bank, and other Cooperating Partners. The principal objective of the UGPTC's
financial management system (FMS) will be to support the Ministry in its deployment of limited resources
with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to
achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS
must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will
enable MTC to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the
achievement of its objectives.
For the Project to fully deliver on the above mentioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in accordance
with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 11. Salient features of the Action Plan
include: (i) the retention of a Financial Management Consultant to prepare the Project's Financial
Management Manual and to advise on the strengthening of UGPTC's present computerized FMS that is
based on Excel, (ii) the appointment of a Project Accountant dedicated to the Communications Sector
Reform Project, (iii) the retention of a Senior Accountant for about 18 months through a firm of
consultants, (iv) the establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register; monthly bank
reconciliations and quarterly reporting of financial information; cash flow management including variance
analysis, (v) the carrying out of an annual external audit undertaken on terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank; and (vi) including on Project Management Team meeting agendas a review of the Quarterly Project
Management Reports (a representative of the Ministry of Planning and Finance will be invited to the
quarterly reviews).
Financial Management Consultants have already been recruited under the Railway and Port Rehabilitation
Project (RPRP) project, which is also managed by UGPTC, to prepare the Financial Management Manual
and set up a financial management system satisfactory to IDA. Although the Financial Management
Manual is being developed initially for the RPRP, it will be expanded to include the Communications
Sector Reform Project prior to effectiveness.
The UGPTC will not have in place by credit effectiveness a FMS that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements. Thus,
in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook,
will be followed, i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments. However, the
appointment of the Project Accountant and the Senior Accountant, coupled with the strengthening of
UGPTC's present financial management system, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within 18 months from effectiveness. In this regard, a financial management review of the
Project will be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of credit
effectiveness to assess progress.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Under technical assistance from this Project, policy, legal, regulatory and institution-building support will
be provided for creating an environment conducive to private participation and competition in the field of
telecommunications, post and air transport. To address potential pre-existing liabilities in the context of the
privatization of the telecommunications company (TDM), the national airline (LAM) and the concessioning
of the Maputo airport supported by the project, an Environmental Pre-Audit report was carried out, with
- 24 -



assistance from a consultant financed under the PPF, to (i) identify the potential risks and potential
environmental liabilities resulting from the companies' past operations, (ii) assess the responsibilities of
each party in meeting environmental compliance and (iii) evaluate whether a full or partial audit would be
necessary.
The report concluded that no audit was required for LAM and TDM and a partial audit would be required
for Maputo International Airport. In addition, the Environmental Pre-Audit concluded that the current
environmental legislation in Mozambique meets World Bank guidelines in terms of environmental screening
for new projects. However, the legislation does not cover the transfer of preexisting environmental
liabilities at privatization. It was agreed with GOM that privatization operations supported by the project
will be conducted under the principle that disposal of former assets will be taken care of by the previous
owner. In addition, all private operators will comply with environmental guidelines and standards for
future expansions and operations.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
For MIA, although an Environmental Audit is not necessary, a partial Environmental Audit will be
prepared for the airport concession, at the time of effective transfer to the private operator, to ensure that
potential environmental concerns can be dealt with within the contractual arrangements of the concession.
The concession agreement will clearly state the agreement reached between the Government and the private
operator as to the responsible party who will correct eventual minor environmental liabilities arising from
past operations, and most importantly, as to the execution of future operations in compliance with
international guidelines.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 27, 2001
For category B project, disclosure and consultation are required at the early stages of preparation. The
findings of the Environmental Pre-Audit, after they were reviewed by the Africa Safeguards Policy
Enhancement Team and the Government, were disclosed in the Infoshop on July 25, 2001. They were
disclosed in the country on August 9, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Environmental Pre-Audit was prepared in close cooperation with MTC, INCM, INAC, TDM, LAM,
ADM and through extensive consultation of the stakeholders during site visits to their facilities. The
Environmental Pre-Audit report and its recommendations have been disclosed in country through the media
(newspapers) allowing for sufficient time to give feedback. In particular, local communities have been
adequately informed about the report's findings. The report was also discussed in detail with major
stakeholders of the companies.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
After the divestiture of TDM, MIA and LAM, a consultant will be hired to monitor compliance and
enforcement by private operators of internationally acceptable environmental standards for the sectors.
While there is no need for a full fledged environmental audit for LAM as the current fleet does not pose any
environment concerns, steps will be taken to start monitoring noise levels in preparation for an upcoming
legislation in the SADC region to regulate noise, ultra-sound and hydrocarbon emission in about four years.
Similarly, while there is no need for an environmental audit for TDM, as the company has already been
able to resolve the main concerns relating to the decommissioning of cross-bar exchanges and other analog
- 25 -



equipment. Decommissioning of certain equipment in some provinces will be carried out after the
de-mining program is completed. For MIA, a partial Environmental Audit will be conducted at transfer of
assets to the private operator and approximately 12 months after divestiture. The consultant will review
compliance to environmental standards in particular for solid and liquid waste management, found by the
Environmental Pre-Audit to be the potential risk factors.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The opening up of the telecommunications and air transport sectors to competition and private sector, and
the development of a postal strategy, with support from this project, are expected to result in increased and
high-level employment in the sector as several new operators enter the market, as well as in other sectors
that rely on improved access and services. However, skill-mix readjustment may be necessary and may lead
to some retrenchment. To facilitate the transition, several measures have been implemented by the
companies to address most of the labor issues and mitigate social risk prior to the privatization. TDM and
LAM have been implementing a retrenchment program with several components: early retirement, mutually
agreed separation, outsourcing some non core-services aiming to reduce staff to acceptable levels. The
Government will address the issue in accordance with Mozambican legislation and procedures, and may
decide to use some of the budgetary support provided under EMPSO for its regular processes of
compensation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The telecommunication, postal and air transport policies have been prepared with involvement of key
stakeholders, i.e., the management and employees of the company, customers and local communities. The
project will help regularly disseminate information regarding the reform process and organize consultations
with major stakeholders by strengthening the capacity of MTC and by helping recruit a public relations
specialist responsible for a communications campaign. Consultations are also envisaged with company
management and unions on social aspects of the privatization process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and rural organizations will be consulted regarding the rural and universal access strategy. In
addition, the ICT strategy has been prepared with active involvement of civil society, under this project
specially to develop relevant applications and content.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Under the rural telecommunications sub-component, a fund will be established to help achieve universal
access goals bringing modem communications and information services to remote areas, where most of the
poor leave. Assistance in operationalizing the GOM's ICT strategy will pay special attention to the use of
information and communications services in the social sectors, such as education and health. Regulators of
telecom, post and air transport will be strengthened to effectively monitor private operators' compliance
with investment and coverage targets, technical, safety and environmental standards.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor outcomes through involvement of key stakeholders at key decision points and
through consultation with the civil society and NGOs.
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental pre-audit has been prepared by the GOM, to identify any possible environmental
implications of the privatization of TDM and LAM; and the concessioning of the MIA. It has subsequently
been reviewed and cleared by the Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement Team and the Borrower, and has
been disclosed in the InfoShop and in country. Upon the report findings, three main provisions have been
built in the project to ensure compliance: (i) contractual agreements with new owners will clearly spell out
the sharing of responsibility between former owners and new owners; (ii) compliance will be reviewed by
an intemational consultant after the divestitures of TDM, MIA and LAM and (iii) public involvement will
be ensured through comprehensive consultations and communications campaign.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
By developing a competitive framework for market-based telecommunications, postal and air transport
service provision, the project will help accelerate investment and improve service levels by new private
operators. Incentives to sustain project objectives include codification of rights and obligations of the
incumbent and new operators, not only in legislation and decrees, but also in licenses. Improved service
coverage and quality at more competitive prices will be sustained as private investment grows in both
infrastructure and services. Empowering the new regulatory authorities to charge levies and fees on
operators will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without dependence on budgetary support.
The project involves substantial risks despite inclusion in the project design of stakeholder feedback and
lessons from other reform programs. The most important risk relate to political pressure from various
stakeholders resulting in a weakening of GOM's conmmitment. Fear of foreign domination and resistance of
local groups with vested interests may result in a slow down of reform pace and reduce transparency. In
addition, weak implementation capacity increases the risk of discretionary process. These risks are being
mitigated upfront by adoption and implementation of clear regulatory frameworks for each sector, precise
procedures for the selection of private entrants with objective and clear selection and evaluation criteria,
requirement for public disclosure of evaluation results and launch of conmmunications campaign.
- 27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to implement the      M         The telecommunications and air transport policy
reform program is not sustained.                      statements provide clear framework for the
development of competitive, market-based
sectors. Adoption of comprehensive policy
documents to the Bank is a condition for Board.
With regard to implementation, early assistance
financed under the PPF helped the Government
to already launch several policy actions such as
the tendering of mobile licenses. Moreover, the
implementation of several telecommunications
and air transport policy actions is envisaged as
part of the overall macroeconomic reform
program, and specifically under the PRSP,
HIPC and EMPSO.
The monopoly granted to TDM under the       M         Government commitment to liberalize the sector
current law is slowing down liberalization,           has been clearly formulated in the
and hence sector development. The                     telecommunications sector policy. Therefore the
telecommunication Law 14/99 has been                  risk is more of legal than of policy nature. The
recently passed (11/01/99) and Assembly               Government will also seek an early amendment
may be unwilling to amend it, or pass a               of Article 40 of the current law which grants
new law if necessary, in order to reduce              transitional monopoly to TDM on certain
the exclusivity period.                               services. This article will be reworded to end
TDM's monopoly on intemational services and
to assure that new mobile operators are allowed
to build their own national long distance
infrastructure.
Weak regulators constrained by operator     S         Regulatory capacity building is one of the core
or political pressure                                 areas of assistance under the project. The
independence and financial autonomy of the
telecommunications and postal, as well as the
air transport regulators will be embodied in
secondary legislation. A detailed organization
plan, budget and training plan will be developed
and its implementation closely monitored.
Weak interest from private investors given  S         In telecommunications, the project will help
global investment climate                             increase legal and regulatory certainty, further
rebalance tariffs, design an appropriate
privatization strategy and undertake a marketing
road show to make the sale more attractive. In
air transport, a new air transport policy is being
adopted prior to airport concessionning and
LAM privatization to enhance market interest.
- 28 -



A diagnostic of LAM was conducted in the
spring 2001 and concluded that core businesses
of LAM are potentially attractive for strategic
alliances on the basis of an early market tests to
assess preliminary investors interest. The
recruitment of an air transport transaction
advisor to implement a quick turn around
pre-privatization restructuring focusing on these
viable businesses, while preparing options for
entering into strategic alliances, will also help
the marketing of the transaction. Finally, market
tests will be perfonned prior to finalization of
tender to get investors interest and feedback and
modify accordingly. Risk mitigation strategies
will also be developed to backstop government
undertakings.
Vested local interests may slow down the      S          In the privatization process, GOM intends to
privatization process or compromise its                  have a balanced participation from both the
transparency                                             foreign and domestic participants to fulfill
interests of the stakeholders. It plans to promote
consortiums with local private developers and
consider all facets of the process. As part of
GOM's telecommunications sector policy,
TDM's majority share will be offered to private
operators in partnership with other parties,
including domestic interests. Similarly, the
creation of a special purpose company for the
airport with a 70% to 75% international private
stake, and the privatization of LAM with local
private interests has been embodied in the air
transport sector policy. GOM has already
started addressing this issue by transferring 20%
of LAM's ownership to its employees and
managers. Under the project experienced
transaction advisors will be recruited to advise
the Government on best practices on
stakeholders strategies.
From Components to Outputs
Social Risk: Labor unions oppose              M          Government to include in its policies a
privatization plan                                       commitment to adopt appropriate safeguard
measures regarding the lay-offs of staff from
TDM, LAM and airport restructuring and
privatization. Further, the Government may
decide to finance some of the social costs of the
reform using the budgetary assistance provided
from EMPSO. TDM has already been
implementing a retrenchment and retraining
program which it believe will solve the labor
- 29 -



issue prior to privatizations. In addition, current
privatization legislation foresees th- allocation
of up to 20% of the shares of privatized
companies to employees. In the case of LAM,
following a capital increase in 1998, employees
have already been given a 20% share. Public
relations campaign will be launched and
sustained throughout the reformn itnplementation
to build consensus.
Linplementation risk: weak technical        S         Upfront agreement on sharing of responsibilities
capacity of institutions involved in reform           within each agency and on organizational
implementation                                        structure. Detailed Project Implementation
Manual prepared. The project will provide
sustained technical assistance.
Resistance of specific groups on            S         Pre-privatization restructuring of LAM will be
sequencing of air transport liberalization            carried out while developing the open sky
and privatization                                     agreement to give the carrier sufficient cushion
to first attract investors and sustain competition.
Sustained communications campaign will be
also widely publicized to explain the reform
process and its benefits
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
A. Borrower to open Project Account (Counterpart Funds Accounts).
B. Borrower to appoint extemal project auditor based on approved terms of reference and satisfactory to
IDA.
C. Borrower to adopt and provide a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA.
D. Borrower to establish a financial management and accounting system acceptable to IDA, including a
Project Financial Management Manual.
E. Borrower to appoint a Project Manager and a Project Accountant with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board conditions:
A. Borrower to adopt a Telecommunications Sector Policy satisfactory to IDA.
B. Borrower to adopt an Air Transport Sector Policy satisfactory to IDA.
- 30 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
3  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable 14nk policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mohammad A.    tafa                        Guislain              4-,l   Darius Mans
Team Leader                        Se  or Manager                J    Country Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring &1 Evaluation    Cntical    umptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve sustainable economic - Increase in Foreign Direct   National Statistics  Stable macroeconomic
growth through increased   Investment as share of GDP                            environment and political
private participation      - Increase in                                         stability
telecommunications and air
transport sectors revenues
generated by private sector
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve                    Telecommunications and     Project supervision and    Continued Government
access to and quality of   Post:                      progress reports.          commitment to develop
efficient and               * Overall telephone density                          private sector participation,
affordable communications     (fixed and mobile) to    ITU and World Bank        competitive market structure,
services through creating an  double from 0.8 (2000) to Development Indicator   independent regulators,
enabling                       1.6 lines per 100      Statistics.                transparent licensing and
environrment for competition  inhabitants by 2006.                               regulation.
and private participation in  * Telephone density in  National sector statistics
telecommunications, postal    rural areas to double from developed and maintained by
and air transport sectors     0.012 lines per 100     the Policy Units at the
inhabitants (2000) to at  Ministry of Transport and
least 0.024, number of   Communications and the
pay phones and other    Regulators.
community access points
(cybercafes, telecenters)  Operational data provided by
to communications      operators (TDM, Post, LAM)
services to increase once
the rural and universal
access strategy developed
under this project is
implemented.
* Reduction in
international, mobile
tariffs, cost of leased lines
and internet access costs
by 2006 as competition
increases throughout the
sector.
Air Transport:
* Passenger and freight
traffic to increase in line
with average regional
SADC growth rates for
passenger and traffic by
2006.
* Airport services at
- 32 -



Maputo International
Airport to improve
through a reduction in
airport fees in line with
regional average
aeronautical fees in
competing airports and
an increase in the number
of connections at least
equal to that of the
average regional
connection increase by
2006.
* Cost of international and
domestic airline tickets to
be reduced in line with
published economy and
charter fares for
competing destinations by
2006.
* Freight costs to be
reduced in line with
competing neighboring
destinations by 2006.
- 33 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          Monitoingi & Evalution t  Crntical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Telecommunications and                              - Progress reports         Timely execution of project
postal sector reforms                               - Supervision report      by Government.
I - New Telecommunications  - Telecommunications sector  - Draft sector policies  Government commitment to
Policy adopted by GOM     policy adopted by Q4 2001.                           adopt key secondary
legislation prior to award of
mobile licenses.
2 - Mobile licenses awarded   - Tender issued by Q4 2001   - Draft bidding documents
to private operators      and two mobile licenses   -. Finalized license agreements Willingness of the Assembly
awarded to private operators  for new operators and mCell  to reduce the time period and
by Q2 2002.                                         scope of the transitional
monopoly granted to TDM
3 - Appropriate legal and  - Issuance of decrees on  - Draft decrees           under the current law and to
regulatory frameworkfor the  INCM statute and                                  end TDM's monopoly on
telecommunications and    organization, interconnection                        international services
postal sector established.  and licensing by Q4 2001.
- Submission for Parliament  - Draft amendment to Article  Regulatory authority has
approval by Q4 2001 of an    40 of current Telecom Law    qualified staff and adequate
amendment of Article 40 of                          financial resources.
current Telecommunications
Law to end TDM monopoly                             Social acceptance of
and allow mobile operators to                       privatization plan.
build own transmission    - Draft telecommunications
networks.                 law (or amendments)       Sufficient interest from
- Approval of a new law on                          private investors.
telecommunications by Q2
2002.
- Establishment of        - Draft secondary legislation
telecommunications
secondary legislation
including organization and   - Consultant reports
functioning of regulatory
authority, competition,
licensing, interconnection,
tariffs, universal service,
dispute resolution, frequency
management and numbering
plan by Q4 2002.
- Key postal regulation
adopted by Q4 2003.
4 - INCM strengthened, and   - Organization and training   - Organizational and training
functioning efficiently as an   plan by Q2 2002.    plan
autonomous regulatory     - INCM is fully operational by
agency.                   Q4 2003 and has established  - Frequency management plan
monitoring procedures
acceptable to IDA to ensure   - Equipment specifications
compliance with new       and bidding documents
legislation and guarantee a
level playing field for sector
- 34 -



operators.
- Frequency management and
monitoring plan by Q3 2002.
- Spectrum management and
monitoring equipment
procured by Q3 2003.
5 - TDM Privatized        - Separation of TDM's      - TDM and separate business
internet, mobile and      unit accounts
international operations as    - Draft and finalized
separate business units with  information memorandum,
own account by December 31, including draft license
2001.                     - Finalized sale agreement
- Transaction advisors
recruited by Q4 2001.
- Telecommunications entity
offered for sale by Q4 2002.
6 - Universal access fund  - Rural strategy finalized by   - Progress reports
operational               Q4 2002.                   - Finalized strategy and
- Establishment of an     implementation plan
universal service fund and
provision of seed money by
Q2 2003.
- First round of market based
bidding for minimum subsidy
by Q2 2004.
7 - Information and                                  - Draft legislation
communications technology   - Information
enabling legislation adopted  technology/e-commerce
enabling legislation adopted
by Q3 2004.
8 - Postal strategy adopted                          - Finalized strategy and
and implemented           - Postal sector policy adopted  implementation plan
by Ql 2003.               - Draft postal regulation
- Postal regulation adopted by - Documents of agreement of
Q4 2003.                  private partnership
- Modernization plan for
postal entity prepared Q2
2004.
Air transport sector reform                          - Progress reports
9 - Legal and Regulatory  - Air Transport Policy
Framework detailing Open   adopted by Q4 2001.       - Draft sector policy
Sky arrangements developed  -Key decrees empowering the
Civil Aviation to oversee
technical and economic
regulation and enacting air
transport regulation
permitting immediate entry of
charters and multidesignation
of international scheduled
operations by Q2 2002.
- Complete set of coherent
- 35 -



secondary legislation enacted
by QI 2003 including all
technical and economic
regulations ( licensing,
pricing, social routes
allocation and minimum
service provision).
IO - Regulatory institutions   - Civil Aviation Authority  - Draft law
strengthened and effectively  fully operational by Q4 2003   - Draft regulations
capable of monitoring and    with established monitoring
enforcing regulations        procedures.
- Core team of professionals
trained in internationally
accepted procedures for
charter licensing, aircraft
certification.
- Established in-house
procedures for monitoring and
enforcing technical, safety
and economic regulation in
line with best practices.
- Established adequate
management information
systems.
- Number of charter licenses
awarded following
internationally accepted
procedures.
11 - Completion of          - Tender for the concession of - Draft bidding documents
transactions to attract foreign Maputo International Airport - Progress reports
direct investment following    launched by Q4 2001 and    - Finalized master plan
acceptable transparent and    awarded by Q3 2002 to a     - Bidding documents
competitive procedures       strategic airport operator to
upgrade airport services and
infrastructure to meet traffic
increase with high quality
services and adequate
capacity.
- Tender for LAM to enter a
strategic alliance is launched
by Q4 2002.
- Strategic action plan for
introducing private
participation in the secondary
airport system adopted by
GOM by Q3 2002.
- 36 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Telecommunication and   US$9.7 million            Project supervision and    Adequate capacity to
Postal Sector Reform                                 progress reports          implement project.
1. I Telecommunication    US$0.9 million             Updated procurement plan    Timely procurement in
policy, strengthening of policy                                                 accordance with Bank
unit and award of mobile                                                        guidelines
licenses to private operators
1.2 Legal and regulatory  US$3.4 million
framework including
strengthening of INCM
1.3 Privatization of TDM  US$1.2 million
1.4 Strategy for market-based  US$3.5 million
rural access including
establishment of a universal
access fund and provision of
seed money for rural
operations
1.5 Information and       US$0.5 million
Communications Technology
enabling legislation
Postal sector policy and  US$0.2 million
modernization plan
2. Air Transport Reform   US$ 5.5 million
2.1 Air transport policy,  US$ 0.6 million
strengthening of policy unit
and regulatory framework
2.2 Strengthening regulatory  US$ 3.3 million
capacity of INAC
2.3 Restructuring and private  US$ 1.0 million
sector participation scheme of
LAM
2.4 Granting airport      US$ 0.6 million
concession
3. Project management and  US$ 0.2 million
implementation
3.1 Strengthening project  US$0.1 million
management, procurement
and financial management
capacity; project auditor
3.2 Communications        US$0.1 million
campaign, information and
dissemination
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
The project will have two major components, each assisting a reform process in telecommunications and
postal sector, and in the air transport sector respectively. In addition, assistance will be provided to
strengthen project management, procurement and financial management capacity to ensure effective project
implementation.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.70 million
Telecommunication and Postal Sector Reform
Sub-component 1.1 - Development of telecommunication policy, strengthening policy capacity and
awarding new licenses (USS 0.9 million)
The project supports the Government's efforts in developing a new telecomnmunications policy through
consultants financed under the PPF. The new policy reflecting the principals of liberalization, independent
regulation, privatization of TDM and universal access, was approved by the Cabinet on October 30, 2001.
Assistance will also be provided to the Ministry of Transport and Conmnunications in building capacity in
sector analysis, policy formulation and monitoring of results, as well as in public relations to better liaise
with international organizations and domestic constituencies throughout the reforrn process. In this respect,
the project will provide training for telecommunications policy unit established under the Minister.
Assistance is also being provided to the Ministry in defining staff profiles and functions of a core team in
this unit.
The Ministry plans to use the new policy as a basis for preparing an offer to the World Trade Organization
(WTO) that would meet the terms of the Reference Paper (especially in terms of interconnection, universal
service, regulatory independence, and spectrum) under the 4th protocol of the General Agreement on Trade
Services (GATS). This sub-component will also assist the Government in preparing such an offer.
The project will also support the implementation of the key policy decision to award mobile licenses to
private operators. International consultants have been recruited under the PPF to assist the Government
with designing and carrying out this process. The consultants already advised the Government on the
number of licenses to be awarded, the type of technologies and service obligations to be included in the
license agreements and the question of intemational access. The Government has decided to go ahead with
two licenses, and to seek an early amendment of the Telecommunications Law to remove legal barriers to
opening up international services to competition. In addition, it will ask bidders in the mobile licenses'
tender to submit two bids: one with and another without international access, to allow the Government to
evaluate the value international investors contribute to the right to provide international services. The tender
was issued and the mobile licenses are expected to be awarded to two private operators by March 31, 2002.
The licenses will allow the new mobile operators to build their own national long distance infrastructure if
necessary.
Sub-component 1.2 - Preparation of a comprehensive telecommunications and postal legal and
regulatory framework, including strengthening of INCM's regulatory capacity (US$ 3.4 million)
- 38 -



The current law on telecommunications (14/99) needs to be operationalized through secondary legislation
and technical regulation to provide a full range regulatory environment attractive for competitive private
entry. This sub-component will provide technical assistance to clarify the existing law and to strengthen the
regulatory regime by preparing elaborate secondary legislation (decrees). Immediate assistance will be
provided under the mobile license consultancy to finalize draft decrees on: (i) INCM's organization and
fimctions, (ii) interconnection, and (iii) on licensing. In addition, the project will also provide assistance to
INCM on the need to draft elaborate and detailed decrees on numbering, radio-spectrum management, price
regulation, universal service, dispute resolution and competition.
In addition, the existing law will need to be amended, or a new law prepared, to address major policy
decisions such as the reduction of TDM's monopoly or strengthening the independence of INCM. This
sub-component will provide technical assistance in order to (i) seek an early amendment of Article 40 on
transitional monopoly granted to TDM (submitted for Parliament approval in September 2001) and (ii)
prepare the draft new law (or amendments to the existing law) in line with the new telecommunications
policy expected to be submitted for the Cabinet's approval by June 30, 2002.
As another step to strengthen the legal and regulatory regime, INCM plans to undertake a major
institutional strengthening program, which will be supported by this sub-component. The main elements of
this program will be support in the areas of: (i) establishing telecommunications and postal regulatory
capacity, (ii) awarding new  licenses; (iii) acquiring radio-spectrum  management equipment;  (iv)
development of a management information system; and (v) training and skills development. A program of
intensive training will be developed under the project to build the INCM staffs ability to exercise their
monitoring functions. In addition, a long-term program will be developed with continuous on-demand
assistance and training. If necessary, consultants with experience in telecommunication regulation and
private sector issues will be recruited on short-term basis with the mandate to reinforce and train the
current team.
Sub-component 1.3 - Privatization of TDM (US$ 1.2 million)
This sub-component will provide the Government with the technical assistance needed to successfully carry
out the privatization of TDM. This includes the hiring of privatization legal and financial advisors that will
assist the government with the transaction. The privatization consultants should be recruited by end 2001
aiming at launching the tender in 2002.
In addition the project will also provide assistance to the Government, if required, to carry out activities in
preparation for TDM's privatization, which include: (i) convert TDM into a Limited Liability Company,
(ii) follow up to the tariff re-balancing program undertaken by TDM, (iii) the preparation and issuance of
licence(s) by INCM to TDM, designating its role and responsibilities in the liberalized market; (iv) the
formulation of a transaction team in MTC that will be the main counterpart of the privatization advisors
and investment banks; and (v) the establishment of TDM's mobile, Internet and international services as
separate business units from the rest of TDM businesses (the new business units will have their own
separate accounts by December 31, 2001).
Sub-component 1.4 - Strategy for market-based rural access, establishment of universal access fund
and provision of seed money (USS 3.5 million)
According to a short rural study undertaken at pre-appraisal, about 70 percent of the population in
Mozambique live in rural areas, while only about 1.5 percent of telephones are available to them,
translating into a rural telephone density of 0.012 percent. The government recognizes the need to
- 39 -



demonstrate quickly that the benefits of sector reform and restructuring, including the liberalization and
privatization in the sector, will accrue to both urban and rural areas. Therefore, to avoid polarization in
service provision between urban and rural areas, the Government will retain the services of an advisory
firm to assist in carrying out a comprehensive rural and universal access strategy, and in designing and
implementation of a rural and universal service fund.
The consultant's work will start with a survey identifying the needs in rural areas all over the country, and
will include an analysis defining the boundaries and priorities of potential rural projects. The results of this
study will be reflected in future policy decisions, as well as in build-out obligations of new licenses to be
issued. In addition, a universal access fund will be established, in accordance with the current law on
telecommunications, to catalyze private investment in rural telecommunication infrastructure and service
provision. Such fund will be managed by INCM, but under this sub-component, a first round of bidding for
"minimum subsidy" will be organized to test and demonstrate the applicability of such strategy in the
Mozambican context. The project will finance part of the up-front investment costs of the winning
operators associated with serving predetermined rural areas. Subsequently, this demonstration round,
modified in light of experience can be replicated to accelerate private provision of rural telecommunication
services.
Sub-component 1.5 - Information and communications technology enabling legislation (US$ 0.5
million)
The Government of Mozambique has established an ICT Committee under the chairmanship of the Prime
Minister and drafted an ICT strategy. The project will help operationalize some of the recommendations of
this strategy and in particular provide technical assistance to improve the regulatory framework for
electronic commerce and information technologies in Mozambique. Consultants will help the Govemment
to review and identify legal areas likely to have an impact on ICT and electronic commerce regulation.
Assistance will be provided in drafting or finalizing key legislation and decrees (data protection, intellectual
property for which a draft law has already been prepared, etc.) and identifying other legislation to be
adapted (such as tax law, commercial law, etc.) in order to have a comprehensive legal framework for ICTs
and electronic commerce.
Sub-component 1.6 - Development ofpostal sector strategy (US$ 0.2 million)
This sub-component will finance consultant services to elaborate a postal policy and a comprehensive
postal development strategy/modernization plan focusing on long term competitiveness, modernization of
the postal network, improving the quality of services, market orientation and new products development.
Consultant services will also: (i) assess the IT needs of the postal networks in light of the new strategy; (ii)
build on the studies available and develop a plan for the expansion and diversification of postal traditional
and possibly financial services; (iii) prepare a managerial and operational reorganization plan, including
staffing and training requirements; (iv) recommend different options of private entry (e.g., through private
partnerships, management contract, concessionning) into the main postal operator to bring private capital,
management skills, technology and know how into the currently inefficient entity. With increasing
competition and private entry in the sector, a proper postal regulatory framework and capacity will need to
be developed. The project will finance consultants to assist with drafting a Postal Policy and key postal
regulations. In addition, this sub-component will also finance hands-on training for the regulator and postal
managers to initiate implementation of the new strategy.
-40 -



Project Component 2 - US$5.50 million
Air Transport Reform
Sub-component 2.1 - Development of an air transport policy and regulatory framework and capacity
building for the Civil Aviation Policy Unit (US$ 0.6 million)
This component provides technical assistance in the form of consultant services, and training to the GOM
for the formulation of a new far reaching air transport policy, establishment of a civil aviation policy unit,
and drafting of the related legal and regulatory framework. The component will fund operating costs for
the set up of the civil aviation policy unit.
To effectively promote a competitive air transport environment and provide efficient, regular, safe and
affordable air services within and from Mozambique, the GOM adopted, on October 30, 2001, a new air
transport policy that removes current barriers to entry (cumbersome regulations for entry, LAM monopoly
on specific routes), which were not addressed in the previous 1996 transport policy. The new policy,
developed under the assistance of an international consultant financed under the PPF, will (i) promote
immediate liberalization of the skies; (ii) promote sector-led competition and investments to upgrade air
services, air navigation services and airport infrastructure; (iii) privatize the main carrier and airports; (iv)
prove extended access throughout the country for social routes.
Assistance will also be provided to the recently created Civil aviation policy unit of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC) in operationalizing the unit (tasks such as the definition of
functions of staff and their profile, development of procedures). Its main functions will be building
capacity for sector analysis, policy formulation and participation in regional and international forum on
policy issues in particular under the SADC umbrella, which conforns to the Yamoussokro Decision.
Under the Yamoussokro Decision (YD), endorsed by the heads of African states in July 2000, a
region-wide Open Sky initiative calling for lifting of flight restrictions (number of carriers, frequencies)
within the African continent will be implemented according to a phased implementation schedule.
Implementation of the decision has been left to the sub-regional groups. The timeframe for implementation
by SADC of YD is currently being discussed in the region. In the meantime, GOM has already initiated
this process by adopting the air transport policy, which conforms not only with the scheduled and
non-scheduled inter-regional air traffic liberalization principles, but also goes beyond towards adopting
multi-designation for inter-continental air traffic.
The project will also support the development of a new legal framework to enact a complete set of coherent
legislation and regulation, which will enable the effective implementation of the new policy. Assistance will
be provided in two phases to update the current legislation. In the first phase prior to private operators
entry and until the second quarter 2002, assistance will be provided to draft key legislation to allow the
operational implementation of the policy and facilitate free private sector entry: in particular to empower
the civil aviation authority with the whole sector oversight, define the Open Sky agreements, licensing
process of new entrants (charters and regular service carriers), pricing mechanisms, the distribution of
sector revenues among the various institutions and the provision of social routes. In a second phase, it is
proposed to draft secondary legislation covering all aspects of the civil aviation sector.
- 41 -



Sub-component 2.2 - Strengthening regulatory capacity of INA C (US$ 3.3 million)
The objective of this component is to provide hands-on support to strengthen the regulatory capacity of the
newly set up independent regulatory agency following the liberalization of the air transport sector. This
agency will function as main enforcer of the aviation framework set by GOM, and will work as an
autonomous entity but together with other agencies such as the ADM. Advisory services, goods, and
operating costs will be funded under the component to strengthen the regulatory capacity of the new
regulatory authority.
Assistance will be provided to jumpstart INAC and will cover: (i) assessment of human, technical and
financial needs, (ii) assistance in implementation of the new structure; (iii) development of operational
procedures; (iv) and initial staff training. A long-term assistance over an 18 month period will be provided
under a twining arrangement to assist the agency in its daily operations of sector oversight, monitoring of
compliance by operators and train the staff to function independently. In particular, this component aims to
improve its efficiency in undertaking technical and economic regulation, and monitoring compliance with
national legislation, sector standards, and IDA policies. In addition, it will build in-house capacity at the
new agency; this support is expected to last for two years, which is estimated time needed for these
autonomous regulator to become self financing from the fees levied from various activities (licensing,
permits, etc.).
Following a technical assessment to identify specific equipment and information system needs, goods will
be provided to develop a comprehensive information management system and telecommunication equipment
to allow the regulator to monitor in a timely and reliable manner traffic throughout the Mozambican space
and main airports. Advisory services will be provided to set up MIS specification, assist in set up and
provide maintenance.
Sub-component 2.3 - Restructuring and private participation scheme of LAM (US$ 1.0 million)
Under this component, technical assistance support needed to carry out the restructuring and privatization
of LAM successfully.
Following an initial diagnostic recently completed by an international consulting firm and on the basis of a
restructuring cum private sector participation strategy to be adopted by cabinet, in September assistance
will be provided to implement a pre-privatization restructuring of the main carrier of Mozambique, LAM to
refocus the company on core business units.
Upon this partial restructuring, assistance will be provided to allow these units to enter strategic alliances
with private operators. Assistance will cover (i) divestment of non core business; (ii) assessment of market
test; (iii) finalization of strategy; (iv) adequate packaging of transaction and preparation of bids documents
for alliances; (v) assistance in tender and award; (vi) assistance in negotiation and closure. Consulting
services in legal, technical, and financial capacity will walk the govermnent through the entire process of
initial analysis on the best structure to reposition the airline for successful strategic alliance. Following the
proposal, assistance will be provided to conduct the private sector participation process step by step to
achieve the best possible result.
-42 -



Sub-component 2.4 - Airport concession (US$ 0.6 million)
Under this component, legal, technical and project finance advisory services will be provided to
successfully carry out the concession of Maputo Intemational Airport (MIA) and develop and execute a
strategy to bring in private participation in the airports in the development corridors, A partial audit will
also be conducted to address some specific environmental issues and potential liabilities.
Recently, GOM has stated its objective of deepening the reform by actively promoting private participation
and competition to develop safe efficient and affordable air services and bring the sector in line with world
wide trends. In early 2001, active steps were taken to accelerate this process and push for private operators
entry into the sector. A pre-qualification process for the Concession of the Maputo Intemational Airport
was initiated. Four consortiums have been pre-qualified. Under the project, assistance will be provided to
assist the Government to finalize and implement a Concession strategy to shift Maputo Intemational
Airport operations to the private sector and to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM) in completing
the selection of the private operators. The main objective of this privatization transaction will be to manage
and upgrade MIA facilities by injecting capital as need be so as to improve the quality of airport services
for all users by reacting to growth demands. A preliminary concession strategy was developed whereby a
special purpose company will be incorporated with a consortium of airport developers and Mozambican
interests such as ADM. Preliminary distribution of share-ownership being considered is 70 percent and 30
percent respectively for the airport developer and local interests. Assistance will include the provision of
legal, technical, project finance advisory services including the formulation of risk mitigation measures to
carry out all work deemed necessary for the successful completion of the concession of MIA to private
operators.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.20 million
Project management and implementation
Sub-component 3.1 - Strengthening project management, procurement andfinancial management
capacity (US$ 0.1 million)
Project management, procurement and financial management capacity has been assessed during appraisal
and a time-bound action plan developed to address existing gaps. This sub-component will finance
technical assistance and training needed to implement some of the recommendations made during appraisal
to assure adequate capacity. This sub-component will also finance an auditor satisfactory to IDA to audit
the project accounts throughout the life of the project.
Sub-component 3.2 - Communications campaign, information and dissemination (US$ 0.1 million)
The project supports structural reforms including privatization of strategic assets in telecommunications,
post and air transport. Information dissemination to the general public and consultations with stakeholders
are crucial for successful implementation of privatizations, enactment of new legislation and carrying out of
key policies such as on universal access. This sub-component will finance some information materials,
workshops and other public relations and consultative activities necessary for the success of the project.
- 43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOZAMBIQUE; Communication Sector Reform Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    us $milion    US $million
Telecommunications and postal sector reform                   1.80           6.80          8.60
Air transport sector reform                                   0.50           4.30          4.80
Project management and implementation                         0.20           0.00          0.20
Total Baseline Cost                                           2.50          11.10         13.60
Physical Contingencies                                       0.30           0.70          1.00
Price Contingencies                                          0.20           0.60          0.80
Total Project Costs'                3.00         12.40          15.40
Total Financing Required                 3.00          12.40         15.40
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US Smiilibn    Us $millio:    US Smillion
Goods                                                           1.80           4.30           6.10
Works                                                           0.00           0.00           0.00
Services                                                        0.80           6.90           7.70
Operating Costs                                                 0.40           0.00           0.40
Project Preparation Facility                                    0.00           1.20           1.20
Total Project Costs'       3.00          12.40          15.40
Total Financing Required        3.00           12.40         15.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 15.4 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 96.75% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-44 -



Annex 4 Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
The proposed project is intended to support a second generation of reform in the telecommunication, postal
and air transport sector. The Communication Sector Reform Project will provide technical assistance to
deepen the reforn impact to improve access, quality and reliability of services to both urban and rural
population throughout the country, as targeted in the key performance indicators (Annex 1).
The support provided under the project will serve as catalyst to create an environment sufficiently
conducive to attract significant capital investments, first class management, and technology. The
investments are expected to bring considerable economic benefits which could be measured in terms of: (i)
increased services and access from new entrants and privatized entities; (ii) cost savings resulting from
competition among service providers and more efficiently managed entities; (iii) additional income from net
job creation; (iv) increased income through reduced transaction costs for the rest of the economy; (v)
increased fiscal transfers; (vi) and consumer surplus. As the project is considered catalytic, the
above-mentioned results are not direct result of the project. A cost benefit analysis was therefore not
undertaken.
-45 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
Years Ending
Fiscal Years
| Year 1  | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  r Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.1        3.8       4.2        3.1       1.7        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          2.2        3.9       4.3        3.2       1.8        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              2.2        3.9       4.3        3.2       1.8        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.1        3.8        4.2       3.1        1.7       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     2.2        3.9       4.3        3.2        1.8       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
Procurement
General:  The project will have two major components, each assisting a reform  process in
telecommunications and post and air transport sectors, respectively. In addition, the project will assist in
strengthening project management, procurement, and financial management capacity to ensure effective
project implementation. The implementing agency will be the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MTC). All goods and services to be financed under the IDA credit would be procured in accordance with
IDA Guidelines (Guidelines. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). All consultant services to be
financed under the IDA Credit shall be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines (Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised in
September 1997 and January 1999). Project elements and their estimated costs and proposed method of
procurement are summarized in Tables A, Al and B.
Procurement Organization and Capacity Assessment: The procurement assessment of the capacity of
MTC for this task was completed in September 2001, according to Procurement Services Policy Group
(OCSPR) guidelines dated August 11, 1998. A preliminary Certificate with an action plan to improve
management capacity has been prepared and discussed with MTC. The Unidade de Gestao dos Projectos
de Transporte e Comunicaq6es (UGPTC) has been assigned as the project management unit within MTC.
A draft Project Implementation Manual including a procurement plan and terms of reference for the first
year of implementation, has been prepared.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained from  the
Government that the following procurement arrangements will apply for the implementation of the project,
and that the final Project Implementation Manual will be finalized by effectiveness. To ensure that
in-house capacity within UGPTC is built up and remains oni the completion of the project, a Project
Manager and a Procurement Specialist will be recruited by effectiveness. The Bank Standard Request for
Proposals (RFPs) for Selection of Consultants (July 1997, and revised in April 1998 and July 1999) shall
be used for consulting services, while the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) shall be used for
procurement of goods and works in consultation with the IDA.
Advertising: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the UN Development Business
Issue No. 559 dated May 31, 2001. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all
outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all International Consulting
Services. In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice is required for all ICB and an Expression of Interest
for all consulting services with a value in excess of US$200,000 prior to the preparation of the short list.
Procurement under the Project
Consulting Services (US$7.3 million) and Training (US$ 1.0 million):
Consultancy services for studies, technical assistance and training requiring the recruitment of firms will be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of these services, among others include for the
telecommunications and postal component: (i) telecommunications and postal policy development and
capacity building; (ii) award of mobile telephony licenses; (iii) telecommunications and postal legal and
regulatory framework; (iv) strengthening the institutional capacity of the telecommunications and postal
sectors regulator (INCM), (v) privatization of TDM; (vi) rural and universal access strategy; (vii)
- 47 -



information communication technology enabling legislations and (viii) development of a postal strategy and
modernization plan. The air transport component includes: (i) air transport liberalization policy
formulation and development of related legislation (ii) development of economic regulation and
strengthening of regulatory capacity of the air transport regulator (INAC); (iii) restructuring and
privatization of LAM and (iv) support for the private concessionning of the main airports. In addition,
consultancy services will be required to conduct the extemal project audit. There will also be Training,
Workshops, and Study tours for the various components of the project.
Selection and appointment of consultants for studies and support of project execution will be carried out in
accordance with the Consultant Guidelines (Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). As a rule, consultant services will
be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be procured through QCBS and advertised in at least one
National Newspaper. Assignments estimated to cost US$200,000 or more should be advertised in the
Development Business as well. In the case of assignments estimated to cost less than USS 100,000 the
assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants,
provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who
wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. For all audit and other standard assignments,
estimated to cost less than US$200,000, least-cost selection may be followed. Consultant services estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of
consulting firms which have expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified. All consulting
services for individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
Goods (US$6.1 million):
Goods under the Telecoms and Postal Reform, and the Air Transport component, will among others include
the procurement of radio-spectrum management system, MIS system for air transportation management,
goods for rural network, etc.
Each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be procured under
ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures
would be used where, there is only a limited number of suppliers. Each contract for goods estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate of US$500,000.00, may be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement for readily available
off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped of less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of USS300,000.00,
would be procured under National shopping (NS) or International shopping procedures as detailed in
paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
To ensure that these limits are observed, each quarterly progress report of the project would include a table
setting out the number and value (in US$ equivalent) of contracts issued through Local, Intemational
Shopping and National Competitive Bidding during the quarter as well as the cumulative total value (in
US$ equivalent) of contract under each of these two procedures from the date of the project start-up.
Operating Costs (US$0.4)
Operating costs will include incremental expenditures incurred under the Project on account of salaries and
allowances of local contractual staff; travel costs and allowances; operation and maintenance of vehicles
and equipment; banking charges; and office rental, supplies and utilities.
- 48 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB           Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods'                             5.00            0.60           0.50          0.00         6,10
(4.90)          (0.40)         (0.40)        (0.00)      (5.70)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00           6.70          0.00         6.70
(0.00)          (0.00)         (6.70)        (0.00)      (6.70)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00           1.00          0.00         1.00
Training                             (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Operating Costs                    0.00            0.00           0.40          0.00         0.40
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.30)        (0.00)      (0.30)
Project Financing Facility            0.00            0.00           1.20          0.00         1.20
=_ _= = _ _._______________      (0.00)           (0.00)         (1.20)        (0.00)      (1.20)
Total                              5.00            0.60           9.80          0.00        15.40
_ =_________________________ .(4.90)               (0.40)         (9.60)        (0.00)      (14.90)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
S Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3/ The capital subsidy is an upfront payment to a competitively selected operator for the provision of rural
services. This is according to Article 3.13 as stated in the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
- 49 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method  ;   ; f :
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFi    LGS        CQ     Other   N BF.  Total Cost'
A. Firms               5.30    0.00    0.00    0.10      1.80    0.00    0.00      7.20
(5.30)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0. 1 0)   (1.80)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (7.20)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.50    0.00      0.50
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)   (0.50)
Total  5.30    0.00    0.00    0.10    1.80    0.50    0.00       7.70
(5.30)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.10)   (1.80)  (0.50)  (0.00)   (7.70)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 50 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA Prior Review:
Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of appendix I of the Guidelines.
Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the
Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals will be subject to IDA prior review. Terrns of reference for consulting services and training will
be subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising their
values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will be subject to IDA clearance. All
training programs will be reviewed and agreed bi-annually, as part of the procurement plan.
Procurement Plans:
The Borrower finalized the detailed Procurement Plan for the first year of the project showing processing
tirne for each component before negotiations. The Procurement Plan, which will be updated yearly, shall
be sent to IDA for clearance not later than three months before the end of each fiscal year.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$)                   Method
1. Works
2. Goods                      $100,000          International Competitive     All mandatory
Bidding
3. Services                   $100,000             QCBS/Consultant            All mandatory
Qualifications
$50,000          Individual Consultant       All mandatory
4. Miscellaneous               Training                   CQ                  All mandatory
Training
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $12.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 51 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement:
The implementing agency would be required to adopt Quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures using
the Special Account facility 18 months after the effectiveness of the credit (i.e., by August 1, 2003 the
latest). In cases where country/project circumstances warrant direct payment special commitment
procedures may be allowed as may be agreed by Loan Department prior to negotiations and clearly
specified in the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 80 percent
of local expenditures for goods, 70 of local expenditures for consultants services, training and operating
costs. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category:       AmountinUS$million            FiInancing Percentage
Goods                                      4.80           100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
Consultant Services and Training            6.80                        100%
Operating Costs                             0.30                70% of local expenditures
Project Preparation Facilities              1.20                         100%
Unallocated                                 1.80                         100%
Total Project Costs                        14.90
Total                                      14.90
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All application to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures
of contracts with an estimated value of less than US$100,000 each for goods, (ii) US$100,000 for
consulting firms, and (iii) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants and training, which may be claimed
on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained by MTC and will be available for review when requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods and services, the Borrower shall open and
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account: the MTC Special Account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment.
Authorized allocation of the special account would be an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures
financed by IDA, i.e., US$800,000 for MTC Special Account. The implementation unit will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for
expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special
- 52 -



account.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a monthly
basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as may be required until 18 months
after effectiveness after which further deposits to the Special Accounts will be on a quarterly basis as
determined through the Project Management Reporting System. All disbursement will be channeled
through Special Account, and in lieu of Special Account, the borrower may choose to pre-fmance project
expenditure and seek reimbursement from IDA. Disbursements will be made under the authorized
signature from a designated representative of the Borrower. The Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
For Financial Management see Annex 11.
- 53 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
Project Sched:ule  _  :; ::    0         :: 0      Planned                     Actual.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10
First Bank mission (identification)              11/15/2000                   11/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     05/15/2001                    06/28/2001
Negotiations                                    09/05/2001                    09/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/31/2002
Prepared by:
The project was prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications with involvement of INCM
and INAC.
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility of US$1,200,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Mohammad Mustafa                  Lead Private Sector Specialist, Task Team Leader
Marie Ange Saraka-Yao             Sr. Financial Officer
Monika Hencsey                    Operations Analyst
Jyoti Azad                        Research Analyst
Kashmira Daruwalla                Procurement Analyst
Lizmara Kirchner                  Program Assistant
Juan Navas-Sabater                Telecommunications Specialist
Yann Burtin                       Operations Officer
David Satola                       Senior Counsel
Jose Janeiro                      Financial Management Specialist/Disbursement Officer
Anthony Martin Hegarty            Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye                  Sr. Environmental Specialist
Francesco Samo                    Lead Procurement Specialist
Jose Paulo Kastrup                Counsel
Eric Haythome                     Senior Counsel
- 54 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Borrower Project Implementation Manual
Draft Procurement Plan
Terms of References for first year of procurement
Project Timetable
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal Back to Office Reports including Aide Memoires
Environmental and Social Data Sheet
C. Other
Telecommunication Services for the Poor - Mozambique Case (prepared by Markku Kaariainen, Epstar)
Mozambican Postal Sector Analysis (prepared by Eric Boissau, La Poste)
Environmental Pre-Audit (prepared by Malic John)
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
23-Oct-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P001806        2002 MZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      0.00      33.60                  0.00        0.00      34.21       0.00       0.00
P001785        2002 MZ-ROADS & BRIDGES MMP                                0.00     162.00                  0.00        0.00     164.50       0.00       0.00
P001808        2001 Mineral Resources Project(NRMCP)                      0.00      18.00                   0.00       0.00      17.29       0.70       0.00
P049874        2000 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                                0.00      26.00                   0.00       0.00      20.05       5.34       0.00
P042039        2000 RAILWAY & PORT RESTR                                  0.00     100.00                   0.00       0.00      90.31      49.71       0.00
P035919        2000 COASTAL MANAGEMENT                                    0.00       5.60                   4.11       0.00       3.65        1.50      0.00
P070305        2000 Coastal and Marine Biodiversity MGMT                  0.00       5.60                   0.00       0.00       4.93       4.33       0.00
P070432        2000 Flood Emergency Recovery Project                      0.00      30.00                   0.00       0.00       0.32       1.46       0.00
P052240        1999 NATIONAL WATERtl                                      0.00      75.00                   0.00       0.00      67.30      12.41       0.00
P001799        1999 AGRIC SECTOR PEP                                      0.00      30.00                   0.00       0.00      22.82      12.85       0.00
P001786        1999 Education SectorStrategic Program(ESSP)               0.00      71.00                   0.00       0.00      61.89      31.99       0.00
P039015        1998 NATIONAL WATER I                                      0.00      36.00                   0.00       0.00      26.78      15.32       0.00
P001759        1997 TRANSBORDER PARKS                                     0.00       0.00                   5.00       0.00       1.36       4.14       0.00
P001792        1996 HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                                   0.00      98.70                   0.00       0.00      31.62      43.38       0.00
P001780        1994 MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                             0.00      30.00                   0.00       3.47       2.81       6.76       6.76
P001804        1994 2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                                   0.00     188.00                   0.00       1.66      28.14      31.00       7.29
Total:        0.00      909.50                9.11         5.12      577.98      220.89      14.05
- 56 -



MOZAMBIQUE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               AEF Bonar                      0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Cahora Bassa               0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Agrimo                         1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996/00            BIM                            0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00
1998               BIM-INV                        0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
2000               BMF                            0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20      0.00    0.00
1997/01            MOZAL                         25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Maragra Sugar                 10.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Polana Hotel                   0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               SEF Ausmoz                     0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CPZ                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CTOX                       0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               SEF Cabo Caju                  0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF ROBEIRA                    0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        41.52    3.00    0.00     0.00     5.16    3.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              SEF Extramnac                     0.42      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              SEF CTN                           0.67      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              BFE                              10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              BIML                              2.00      0.00      0.30      0.00
2001               SEF Grand Prix                   0.44      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       13.53      0.00      0.30      0.00
- 57 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOZAMBIQUE: Communication Sector Reform Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low-
Mozambique       Africa   income      Dlvslopmrsnt diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          17.3       642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       230        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          3.9       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           2.3        2.6        1.9
Labor force (%)                                          2.3        2.6        2.3     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                   capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of popufation below national poverty line)     69
Urban population (% of total population)                  39         34         31
Life expectancY at birth (years)                          45         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 134         92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                26         32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         32         43         64
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                      57         39         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)     71         78         96            -     ozambique
Mate                                                    79         85       102                    Low-income group
Female                                                  60         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               ..       2.3  ,    3.9        4.2
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                             14.8      20.4       35.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicesiGOP                         8.2      11.7       13.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              -15.6        1.7      11.0
Gross national savings/GDP                              -23.5      -3.8        5,2
Current account balance/GDP /a                          -33.0     -20.5      -31.7      Domestc                    1  Investment
Interest payments/GDP lb                                  1.4        1.        15       Savings
Total debUGOP                                           1911      214.3      184.2
Total debt service/exports /b                            25.3      29.0       28.0
Present value of debt/exports lcld                                538.0      202.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03                   Indebtednes
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   -0.9      5.7      12.0        9.0       7.4                 -     Mozambique
GNP per capita                        -3.6      3.6       9.3        6.4       5.1                 --Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         -869     14.2       6.5       863       31.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             too
Agriculture                                              47.4       34.3      31.6      0
Industry                                                 24.3      20.8       24.1     aon
Manufacturing                                                     10.5      12.6
Services                                                28.3       44.9       443 
54   9s   a6   97   us   go
Private consumption                                    104.3       89.0       78.8    -so
General government consumption                           11.3       9.3       10.2                   GD1    -GDP
Imports of qoods and services                           38.6       30.5       37.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                     7.3       4.2        7.0       5.4    60        T
Industry                                       -4.5       8.0      22.9       12.6    40
Manufacturinga                                         164         7.5      16.0
Services                                       10.0       5,7        9.9       7.9    20n
Private consumption                            -2.3       3.2       11.8       8.7      a
General government consumption                 -3.0      -51       32.2        9.3           94 j7  9'   99
Gross domestic investment                       3.2      11.5      29.4       83.9    20
Imports of goods and services                  -4.4       2.2      24.2       55.3                Exports        0Imports
Gross national product                         -1.9       5.9       11.8       8.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 58 -



Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                         e
(% change)
Consumer prices                                          42.1        0.6        2.0    60
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..    47.4         3.8        5.2     __ 7
Government fInance                                                                     20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    ..    16.8       15.7      17.6              94    95    96    97    98
Current budqet balance                             .      2.5        4.3        5.4             -GDP dehlalor  -*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -9.9        -6.5       -6.2
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999       Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                .      105        248       260      1,500
Cashews                                         52       21         41        35
Prawns                                          23       39         73         75     1 000
Manufactures                                    ..        0         14         20
Total imports (cif)                               ..      723        868      1.346
Food                                            ..        ..        32         39      soo        *              JJJ          J
Fuel and energV                                  .         .        84         86
Capital goods                                                      211       307         o
Export price index (1995=100)                      ..      92         95        97             93   94   95   96   97   go   99
Import price index (1995=100)                              89         88        89                  HExports       * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..     103        108       108
:ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mit/ions)                                 1979      1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..      200        534       559       0
Impoots of goods and services                     .      790       1.075     1.579
Resource balance                                         -590       -540    -1.020 59    0
Net income                                         ..    -173       -256      -303
Net current transfers                                                                  -20
Current account balance                            .     -763       -796    -1 322      -30
Financing items (net)                                     760        858     1,375
Changes in net reserves                                     3        -62        -53     -40
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)                    204        625       669
Conversion rate (DEC, localLJUSS)               32.6    744.9   11,850.3  12,691.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998       1999
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..   4.422       8.344     7,682
IBRD                                             .        0          0         0                          G;9
IDA                                                     176      1.338       702                                  1338           1
Total debt service/l .e                                    69        159       214           F 197 |
IBRD                                            ..        0          0         0                                         204
IDA                                                       6         12        16
ComDosition of net resource flows                                                                                          :553
Official grants                                 ..      573        674       428
Official creditors/f                                    147         14       191
Private creditors                                        11         43       344
Foreian direct investment                       ..        3        213       392
Portfolio eguitV                                         ..         ..         ..    |:4,265
World Bank program
Commitments /g                                          197        186       176      A - IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements /g                                         51        134       218      B - IDA    D- Other m.ltilateral  F - Pr-mae
Principal repayments                            ..        5          3         6      C - IMF                       G - Short-ter-
Net flows                                       ..       46        131       212
Interest pavments                               ..        1          9        11
Net transfers                                   ..       45        122       201
Development Economics
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 11
Draft Financial Management Action Plan
A. GENERAL
Reporting to the Minister of Transport and Conmnunications (MTC), the Unidade de Gesta.o dos Projectos
de Transporte e Comunicacoes (UGPTC) will be responsible for preparing and implementing all donor
funded transport and communications projects executed under the MTC. It will supersede Gabinete dos
Projectos Maritimos (GAPROMAR). Under the supervision of the Chief of the Finance Department of
MTC, a Project Accountant at UGPTC will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures will be acceptable to the Government and the World Bank.
The principal objective of UGPTC's financial management system (FMS) will be to support management in
their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in
the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of
Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and
reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise MTC's
overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives. For MTC to fully deliver on the aforementioned
objectives, its FMS will be developed in UGPTC in accordance with the Financial Management Action
Plan presented in Section B below.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Quarterly Review of PMRs by Project Management Team: The project management team meeting,
including the Project Manager, heads of task teams, procurement specialist and the project accountant, will
include on its agenda the review of the Quarterly Project Management Report (PMR). A representative of
the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) will be invited to attend these quarterly sessions. The PMR
will comprise:
*   Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the project management team will review and
approve Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances
between budget/actual figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
*  Project Progress, i.e., Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will
need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative
interpreting the Project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date
relate to those planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the Project by completion.
*  Procurement Management Report (including Goods, Consulting Services and Training).
- 60 -



Staffing: Staff at the UGPTC is planned to include: a Project Manager, a Procurement Specialist, Project
Accountant, an Economist, a Translator, an Administrative Secretary as well as support staff. During the
initial phase of the UGJPTC, the Project Manager will be supported by a firm of consultants financed under
the RPRP project that will provide a Senior Accountant on a long term basis (for about 18 months) and a
series of specialists (lawyers, economists, engineers etc.) on a short term basis. Varying levels of staff
training will be required in financial, management and government accounting; information systems and
computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization of funds (e.g., Special Accounts, SOEs,
Special Commitments, Procurement etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
Accounting System/Financial Management Manual: A Financial Management Consultant has been
retained to prepare the Project's Financial Management Manual (including records management) and to
advise on the strengthening of UGPTC's present computerized FMS that is based on Excel. A Financial
Management Manual will be available by Credit effectiveness. Although the Manual is being developed
initially for the RPRP, it will be expanded to include the Communication Sector Reform Project. Project
activities will be periodically reviewed by the Audit Unit (IGF) at the MPF (Treasury).
Planning and Budgeting: Counterpart Funds will be approved in line with the Government's budget
process. The Project Accountant of UGPTC - in consultation with the Chief of the Finance Department of
MTC and the Project Management Team including the Project Manager - will be responsible for preparing
the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast in line with generally accepted accounting practice.
Government Accounting-Cash Versus Accruals Bases: The UGPTC will meet the MPF's (Treasury)
requirement for cash accounting. This requirement is not expected to change in the short to medium-term.
Thus, for the foreseeable future, project funds will be accounted for on a cash basis. In due course, for
management reporting purposes, the Project Management Team's quarterly session will include on its
agenda the review of PMRs and will decide whether to convert to an accruals basis of accounting (whilst
maintaining a cash basis for Government reporting purposes).
Procurement of Goods, Consulting Services and Training: World Bank and Government procurement
regulations will be observed. The financial management staff will be conversant with those procedures, as
internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concern to
the financial management function. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and
contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the Project Management Team.
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Manual.
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
The UGPTC will maintain 3 bank accounts as follows:
(a) Special Account in US Dollars/Meticais, that will show:
*   Dollar/Meticais cost of transfers to Part I Account;
*   Dollar/Meticais cost of direct payments to suppliers;
*   Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account;
*   Opening and Closing Balances.
(b) Current Account in Meticais (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from the Special Account will be
credited once per month (towards the end of the month) in respect of incurred eligible expenses. Following
the irnnediate payment of those liabilities, the balance on this account should be zero at the end of each
month.
- 61 -



(c) Current Project Account in Meticais (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart Funding will be deposited,
in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement.
In addition, an IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Meticais/SDR will be maintained to
show:
* Cost of transfers;
* Cost of direct payments to suppliers;
*   Opening and Closing Balances.
All bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified difference- will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures for all banking arrangements will be documented in the Financial Management Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements: By credit effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for PMR-based
disbursements (World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998).
Thus, in the short term, existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook will be followed, i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments. However, the
appointment of the Project Accountant and the Senior Accountant (through the firm of consultants),
coupled with the strengthening of UGPTC's present financial management system, should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
In due course, the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (which integrates project accounting,
procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Project
Management Report, as summarized above) should enable the Project to move from voucher-by-voucher
disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Special Account based on the PMR. In that
regard, a financial management review of the Project will be undertaken by a World Bank Financial
Management Specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to assess progress.
Fixed Assets/Civil Works/Consultants: Control procedures will be documented in the Financial
Procedures Manual. A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding
Construction/Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only
for certified work (including physical verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for all
contracts. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments,
will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the Project Management Team.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting: In compliance with Government reporting requirements, UGPTC will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Return (Statement of Expenses - "Prestacoes de Contas") to the MPF
for consolidation into the National Accounts of Mozambique.
Quarterly/Annually: The Project Financial Statements will include:
* A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds showing IDA and Counterpart Funds;
* Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
* Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
* A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA Special
- 62 -



Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds;
*   SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by
the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
*  A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999). In due course, the formats adopted by the Project Management
Team will be documented in the Financial Management Manual.
ExternalAudit: Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved
tenns of reference. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
financial year end. Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance with
International Auditing Standards (IFAC pronouncements), the auditor will be required to include a separate
paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures
and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the Special
Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World
Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the auditor will be required to prepare a
Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements
of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
- 63 -



Additional
Annex 12
Letters of Sector Policy
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President - Africa Region
The World Bank
August 15, 2001
Dear Mr. Vice-President:
This is in reference to the proposed Communications Sector Reform Credit to be provided by the World Bank.
The purpose of this letter is to set out briefly our government's objectives for the development of the
telecommunications sector, to identify the key issues in reforming the sector and the measures the government
intends to take to address these issues, and to convey government's commitments to specific sector policies
that we consider essential for successful implementation of a sustained development of the telecommunications
sector.
1. TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICY OBJECTIVES
The overriding objective of the Telecommunications Policy is to achieve the modernization and rapid
expansion of telecommunications networks and services.This will enhance national economic and social
development, and integrate Mozambique internally as well as into the global economy.Telecommunications
services should, accordingly, be efficient, affordable, reliable and available to all.
Specific Objectives
* Promote widespread access to advanced comnunications services including the Internet and related
capabilities to facilitate the implementation of the government's ICT strategy;
* Enact necessary laws and taking other measures promptly in support of the implementation of the
Telecommunications Policy and to ensure effective competition and strong and independent sector
regulation;
* Ensure that the regulatory framework is sufficiently flexible and forward looking to take advantage of
technological development and the international trend towards convergence of technologies (voice, data
and image) and markets (telephony, intemet and broadcasting);
* Promote competition to meet growing demand through the liberalization of the telecommunications market;
*  Promote efficient use of limited national resources like the radio-spectrum and numbering;
* Ensure that the government divests its interest in the state-owned telecommunications entities, especially
Telecomunicacoes de Mocambique (TDM); and
* Develop and enhance local capacity in telecommunications technology.
- 64 -



MTC formulates broad telecommunications policy. Among its specific functions are:
*   Proposing policy options and recommending to Government such measures as legislation, fiscal incentives,
etc;
*   Establishing policies for promoting universal access to communications in Mozambique as outlined in this
policy
* Representing Government on matters pertaining to regional and international organizations;
*   Liaising with National Assembly on telecommunications matters.
To carry out these responsibilities, MTC plans to establish a Telecommunications Policy Unit at the Ministry
with the necessary competence.
11. INDEPENDENT REGULATION
The Instiuto Nacional das Communicacoes de Mocambique (INCM) shall be the independent regulator of all
technical and economic issues in the telecommunications industry. INCM will have full administrative and
financial autonomy with its own separate budget. INCM will also have an independent board of directors with
defined rules for appointment and removal. It shall be empowered to issue licenses, promote and enforce fair
competition, regulate tariffs of dominant operators, monitor and manage the radio-spectrum, protect
consumers' interest, and regulate all telecommunications licensees and service providers. It is the responsibility
of the INCM to ensure that interconnection is available on a non-discriminatory and cost-oriented basis to all
authorized operators. It shall design and maintain a national numbering plan, and perform such other
regulatory functions as may be consistent with its mandate to promote the development of Mozambique's
communications. INCM will accordingly be restructured so that it can undertake these responsibilities.
INCM shall make its decisions in an impartial and independent manner. It shall be guided by the overriding
objectives of the Telecommunications Policy and the Telecommunications Law, which shall reflect
considerations of fairness, equity, and transparency.  Such rulings shall not be directly influenced by
Government or private industry, except in a transparent and open forum. All deliberations of INCM shall be
undertaken in a transparent manner, subject to the rights of operators to non-disclosure of proprietary and
competitively sensitive information. Parties affected by regulatory decisions, including operators and
customers shall be afforded access to INCM's proceedings and the right to submit opinions in support of their
interests. Parties shall have the right to appeal such decisions through transparent administrative and legal
channels.
III. TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY STRUCTURE
The objective of this policy is ultimately to establish a long-term telecommunications market structure in
Mozambique in which multiple private operators provide services on a competitive basis to the broadest range
of customers. Accordingly, INCM  shall be authorized, pursuant to the telecommunications law, to issue
operating licenses or a registration certificate (depending on the services covered) to all telecommunications
service-providers to participate in all market segments, in accordance with the objectives of the
Telecommunications Policy. Services may be provided, and where necessary licenses issued, according to any
of the following modalities, or such other modality as INCM may be authorized under the telecommunications
law: public tender invitation; competitive bidding; open application with minimum requirements; and
unregulated entry. INCM shall make the establishment of transparent licensing processes a priority among its
- 65 -



functions, with the goal of awarding new licenses within the shortest possible time-frame.
The current telecommunications law (Law 14/99) grants a transitional monopoly to the privatized TDM of 5
years starting on the day of its privatization in certain services. The Government will submit for the approval
of the Assembly a pro-competition telecommunications law to reflect the new sector policy. In the interim, the
Government will enact decrees on INCM organization, interconnection, and licensing as well as submit for the
Assembly's approval an amendment of Article 40 of the current law allowing new mobile operators to build
their own national long distance transmission networks.
IV. PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
The introduction of the private sector to the ownership and operation of all segments of the market is a vital
element of the establishment of an effective and efficient telecommunications sector. The Government will
therefore actively liberalize the telecommunications market and encourage the participation of the private
sector at all levels, with no limits on foreign ownership. The Government plans to divest its ownership in all
telecommunications operators.
The process to privatize TDM should start immediately. The privatization of TDM will be conducted in a
transparent and non-discriminatory manner. Prior to privatization and in preparation for the planned
competition, TDM will be restructured to a corporative state-owned company (i.e., limited liability company)
and will receive a new license (issued by INCM) which, among other things, should specify the company's
service markets, and obligations in a liberalized market. TDM will establish its mobile, Internet and
intemational services as separate business units from the rest of its business. The new business units will have
their own separate accounts.
V. TARIFF AND INTERCONNECTION AND POLICY
Under the competitive industry structure described above, competitive market forces would be the best
detenminant of the appropriate and sustainable levels of prices charged by various carriers for their services.
However, it is likely that for some interim period active competition will not fully develop throughout the
market, leaving one or more dominant operators with the power to control pricing. In these circumstances, it is
appropriate for INCM to establish tariff regulation requirements for such dominant operators, which will
ensure that service prices are cost-oriented, that consumers' and competitors' interests are protected, and that
the industry develops in the most efficient manner possible. INCM will allow TDM to complete the
tariff-rebalancing plan, which it has already started.
The achievement of the goals of market-based competition in telecommunications requires also that every
operator has mandatory access to technically adequate and economically efficient interconnection with all other
operators, especially those operating long distance and local access facilities. It is the responsibility of the
INCM to ensure that such interconnection is available on a non-discriminatory and cost-oriented basis to all
authorized operators. INCM shall therefore establish a transparent set of Interconnection Rules.
VI. EXPANDING ACCESS
The long-term objective of this policy is to enable all the people of Mozambique to have access to all formns of
modem information and communications services. This would support the economic, social, and political
development of the country and its integration into the global information society. Government will encourage
the development of telecommunications and Internet services in the rural areas to promote rapid
- 66 -



socio-economic development. Furthermore, educational institutions will be afforded access to basic and
advanced telecommunications services in order to enhance and sustain educational standards nationwide.
Toward these ends, MTC, INCM and other public agencies, as well as all operators and market participants,
would collaborate on the development and implementation of policies and strategies to achieve these goals as
rapidly and effectively as possible.
MTC shall formulate policies on universal access, including specific targets to be achieved over a given period
of time. The INCM is responsible for promoting specific regulatory and market initiatives, including defining
development targets and other interim and long term goals for national communications access. Any obligatory
contributions to financing universal access by regulated telecommunications operators shall be administered in
a transparent, non-discriminatory, and competitively neutral manner, and shall be applicable to, and imposed
on all participants in the relevant market segments.
A, universal service fund will be established to help support the rapid development of universal access in areas
that are inadequately served by present operator networks, and that may be perceived as uneconomic by the
market. All licensed and authorized telecommunications operators and service providers will be required to
contribute to the development of universal access.
Vii. MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT INTENDS TO TAKE
The Government will undertake an implementation program, which consists of the following core elements:
I. Establish a competent Telecommunications Policy Unit at MTC by June 30, 2001;
2. Adopt the Telecommunications Sector Policy by September 30, 2001.
3. The Government shall submit for the approval of the Assembly, by September 30, 2001, an amendment of
Article 40 of the current telecommunications law (Law 14/99) to end TDM's monopoly on the provision
of international services. The amendment will also allow new mobile operators to build their own national
long-distance transmission networks.
4. The Government shall submit for the approval of the Assembly a pro-competition telecommunications law
by March 31, 2002 to reflect the new sector policy. In the interim, the Government will enact decrees on
INCM organization, interconnection, and licensing by September 15, 2001;
5. INCM will move rapidly to increase competition and large scale private investment in the sector by
authorizing competitive new entry of at least two private firms to provide cellular mobile services with
international access by financially and technically capable firms through a competitive, timely and
transparent license award process, by March 31, 2002. The tender documents for the selection of these
firms will be released by the INCM no later than September 15, 2001;
6. In preparation for the forthcoming competition and TDM's privatization, the Government intends to
assure that: (i) TDM will be incorporated as a limited liability company, and (ii) its mobile, Internet and
international services will be established as separate business units from the rest of its business with their
own separate accounts, by December 31, 2001; and
7. A controlling ownership interest (preferably 51% or more) in TDM shall be offered for sale to private
investors, in the most transparent manner. This is expected to be completed by December 15, 2002.
Privatization advisers will be appointed by the Government by November 15, 2001.
- 67 -



I hope that these details will help to clarify the main strategic directions of our efforts to develop the
telecommunications sector.
Yours sincerely,
Isl Luisa Dias Diogo
Minister of Planning and Finance
Republic of Mozambique
- 68 -



AIR TRANSPORTATION LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President - Africa Region
The World Bank
August 15, 2001
Dear Mr. Vice President,
With reference to the proposed Communications Sector Reform Credit being negotiated with your Institution,
we want to briefly outline the Government of Mozambique's objectives for the development of the air
transportation sector in the country, we also want to identify the key issues in reforming the sector, and the
measures that we intend to take to address these issues.
1. AIR TRANSPORTATION POLICY OBJECTIVE
The paramount objective of the air transportation policy is the development of safe, efficient, trustworthy, and
affordable air transport services in the country; those services shall be able to promote Mozambique's
economic growth while serving as a "social" means of communication for those populations that otherwise
would be isolated.
The policy has necessarily to be harmonious with the national economic policy and also be able to adequately
react adjusting specific objectives to the very dynamic worldwide industry requirements.
Specific objectives
*   Complete liberalization of the sector by reconciling possible conflicting legislation and enacting the
necessary new legislation as well as to allow a friendly environment for investments;
* Ensure the application of internationally accepted safety regulations within a legal framework capable to
be easily adjusted to the world economic and technological developments;
*   Promote the implementation of the regional agreements; in particular those reached under the SADC
umbrella;
*   Promote the development and implementation of the CNS/ATM in the air navigation of the country's
space;
*   Ensure that a small, strong, and very capable independent regulatory body oversees and enforces technical
regulations;
*   Under a deregulated environment, apply economic regulation only to prevent and/or revert the abuse of
any monopolistic control of the market, dumping, and/or predatory practices;
*   Promote competition wherever possible;
*  Withdraw the State and encourage private sector participation in the provision of services;
*   Ensure an explicit subsidy for those users in populations with an aerodrome and not market driven air
transport services, only when there is no other means of transportation and the air transport is the most
- 69 -



economic solution;
*   Support the development of the country in correspondence with the corridors of Nacala, Beira, and
Maputo as well as to use it an option for providing air transport services to the neighboring countries; in
particular to those lanflocked;
II. ROLE OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
The Ministry of Transport and Communications as the specialized body within the Central government has
among its specific functions regarding this area:
*   Formulating the policy of the sector;
*   Recommending policy adjustments to the government;
* Representing the country at international forums;
*   Representing the Executive branch before the National Assembly in air transportation matters;
*   Issuing regulations;
*   Coordinating the accident investigations within the sector;
*  Delegating specific functions to specialized agencies in order to make the policy formulation a reality;
The Ministry shall have a specialized unit (the Policy Unit) to perform such functions.
111. INDEPENDENT REGULATION
An independent and accountable body, the National Institute for Civil Aviation (INAC for its Portuguese name
of Instituto Nacional de Aviacado Civil) shall exercise the role of the civil aviation technical and economic
regulator, applying the policy, overseeing the sector, and enforcing the country's regulations. The INAC shall
be legally established and enjoy financial and administrative autonomy, with own budget and by-laws. Shall
have power to license aeronautical personnel, airlines, airports, CNS/ATM, air work companies, maintenance
centers, and training facilities. Shall also be able to certify adequateness of the related equipment and
installations.
The INAC shall collect and analyze the information generated in the sector, and take the necessary measures to
correct possible deviations if needed. Shall also provide an opportune feedback for the government to use such
information for making policy/regulations adjustments. Will also periodically publish related statistics and
keep a comprehensive registry of the relevant facts and activities in the sector.
The coordination with the Government will be done through the above-mentioned Ministry of Transport and
Communication' Air Transport Policy Unit; however, that does not prevent direct interaction with the any
member of the Government.
- 70 -



The INAC while performing its functions shall always act:
*   Protecting consumers from companies misusing their dominant market position;
*   Promoting demand driven infrastructure investments;
* Allowing the government to better focusing in its duties; and
*   Promoting efficiency.
Neither the regulatory body nor its members shall have conflicts of interest; the regulator and all the entity's
personnel shall be responsible for their actions: and shall ensure that complete transparency is in place when
applying the rules, regulations and procedures. Appealing mechanisms are to be in place in order to guarantee
the operators/consumers right to have their cases reconsidered, both at administrative and legal levels.
IV. CIVIL AVIATION STRUCTURE
The sector policy looks for a complete separation of functions among the different players. The policy
definition and definition of the regulatory and legal framework remaining as a State privileges; the overseeing
and enforcement of the regulations will be INAC's responsibility, and the provision of the services will be
operated by the private sector. Safety and Security regulations are to be implemented at international levels in
such a way that the country will enjoy the confidence not only from the intemational organizations but from
the private sector willing to invest in air transportation.
The domestic air transportation shall be provided by any technically and financially qualified licensed
company, preferably Mozambican based, although airlines from the region may provide the service under
specific arrangements. Regional air transport services shall be ruled by the recommendations to be agreed
under the SADC meetings.
Intemational Operations shall continue to be ruled by bilateral and/or multilateral air services agreements;
however, future negotiations for existing or new agreements shall include provisions oriented to the application
of open skies police among the signatory countries.
Non-scheduled services are to freely provide services within the country as well as across the border, as far as
the service provider follows the Mozambican regulations.
Cargo operations in each segment of the market and type of operation shall follow the same principles outlined
for the passenger operations.
Meteorological services shall be provided to the sector in a timely and reliable fashion; in doing so, an
optimization of the provision of such services for different uses in the country shall be pursued. Regional
cooperation shall also be encouraged.
Private aircraft maintenance centers and specialized training academies are to be encouraged in the country in
order to ensure a comparative advantage while competing under a global market.
Tourism and exports are considered a very important source of revenues in hard currency; therefore, desirable
for contributing to the country's development; the air transport is to focus the attention in increasing such
source of revenues; consequently, facilitation for the development of those activities shall be encouraged. To
this end related activities such as immigration, customs, health, and agricultural procedures will be analyzed
and recommendations for simplification will be issued. Without looking for specific privileges or exemptions
for the sector, taxation policies will be also analyzed and recommendations submitted to the appropriate bodies
- 71 -



in order to provide the adequate signal for the development of the sector and its activities.
The sector is intended to be self-financed and eventually provide via taxes the necessary funds to be used by
the government in social objectives. The principle of service provided-service charged will be applied in all the
activities. Keeping in mind that is not a profit oriented body; the INAC shall apply a reasonable fee to the
users in order to recover the cost of an efficient provision of services. If needed, will allocate part of those
resources to provide an explicit and temporary subsidy to otherwise isolated places. By making explicit these
charges, it is not expected for the overall value of the charges per user to increase; on the contrary, charges
should tend to decrease.
The airports system shall also be able to self-finance its development; a strategy that would allow the system
to achieve demand driven development, shall be developed and applied. A similar approach shall be adopted
for the implementation of the satellite based CNS/ATM in the country.
V. PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
The private sector shall be encouraged to invest in the sector and also to operate, maintain, and develop the
related infrastructure that the government currently owns and cannot be completely transferred to the private
sector due to financial implications. The withdrawal of the State in the provision of services is a key element
that shall allow the government to better focus in its natural functions, the policy making and the enforcement
of the regulations. That scenario shall pave the way for an efficient and competitive sector, which shall
decisively contribute to the growth of the economy.
The process of transferring the operations, maintenance, and development of the Maputo, Nancala and Beira
airports to international specialized private operators shall start as soon as the policy and basic regulations
have been adopted. A strategy shall be identified in order to allow the private operation of the remaining State
owned airports. The transfer processes are expected to be successfully completed utilizing competitive and
transparent procedures. In the sarne trend, private sector participation in the management and ownership of
the national airline Linhas Aereas de Mo9ambique (LAM) shall be implemented. The operation of the air
navigation services shall follow the agreements being developed under the SADC initiative; in doing so, the
need for preparing the country for the satellite based technology shall be present.
VI. SERVING OTHERWISE ISOLATED POPULATIONS
Since the development of the country also means the development of its parts, it is a government duty to
provide means of transportation to the country's population. If under a deregulated market, an operative
airport exists and it is not being served by the private sector and such population has no other means of
physical communication, the governnent shall provide an explicit subsidy for the provision of limited type of
air transportation. To allocate such resources; however, the solution has to probe to be economically and
socially the best option.
VII. MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT INTENDS TO TAKE
* The Government shall enact a pro-liberalization sector policy by September 30, 2001;
*   The Governent shall enact a set of legislation by end 2002 to provide a clear, consistent and harmonized
legal umbrella reflecting clearly the new philosophy of the reforrn to promote deregulation and private
provision of services. In the interim, the Government shall enact key decrees on INAC organization and
financing, ADM, air transport economic regulations before the launch of MIA concession;
* The Government shall also assess the need for the provision of social routes and enact related regulations;
- 72 -



*   The Civil Aviation Authority shall be empowered by end of October 2001 as a small, strong and capable
autonomous body to ensure the supervision and enforcement of regulations.
Yours sincerely,
Isl Luisa Dias Diogo
Minister of Planning and Finance
Republic of Mozambique
- 73 -



Additional
Annex 13
Telecommunications Sector Overview
L. Sector Statistics
Mozambique's teledensity of 0.5 main lines per 100 inhabitants (2000) is not only well below that of
developed countries, but is also low when compared to other African countries with comparable geographic
and economic conditions. In the end of 2000, the fixed network had a switching capacity of about 128,000
lines from which 86,000 were in service. Teledensity in the country has increased 50 percent since 1993, but is
still one of the lowest in the region illustrating the difficulty of the public incumbent in keeping up with
demand and population growth. About 10,000-15,000 lines are connected annually but due to the very high
disconnection rate (two in every three lines installed get disconnected) - which is not only inefficient but costly,
- the incremental increase is much lower. At the same time, waiting lists are high even in some urban areas.
Demand is estimated to be well above the expressed waiting list of 21,000.
Table 1. Basic Sector Indicators
Indicator          1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Installed capacty          92,507   97,347  97,347  103,753  104,556  105,920  113,606   n/a
Main lines in service      55,463   57,490  59,818   61,175   65,696  75,354   78,072   85,057
D1t1saton                   0.68    0.71     0.72    0.91    95%      99%/    99%/a    99%/o
Capacity utlisation         600/a   590/a   61%      59%     63%      71%     69%      n/a
Teledensity                 0.36    0.35    0.34    0.34    0.42    0.46    0.46    0.55
Waiting list                5,164   14,060  14,085   16,626   17,363  15,692   39,686    n/a
Average wainng ume (months)  14       11      19      10       8       7        6      n/a
Mobile Subscribers           5-       -       -        -     200   6,725   12,243   51,065
The network currently extends to 102 (80 percent) of the 128 districts (the administrative units below
provinces). However, it mainly covers major cities and their surroundings and in Tete province only half of the
12 districts have a telephone. Ninety nine percent of lines are in urban areas while only 1,000 lines are
available in rural areas with population of about 1 1 million. Due to lack of terrestrial backbone transmission
network, provincial cities have been connected via satellite to Maputo. To develop the backbone, a 1,000 km
long submarine cable is being laid connecting the second largest city Beira to Maputo, eventually connecting
Zimbabwe with Africa One.
There are about 2,000 public phones, from which about 500 card-operated. The incumbent operator is
currently looking into installing more public phones to tackle the non-payment issue (collection rate is 70
percent) and extend access to areas where residential lines are not economically viable. The network is
basically fully digitalized. In terms of quality of service, with 80 faults per 100 main lines Mozambique ranks
low in Africa. However, most of the faults are in customer premises. An increasing problem is billing claims,
partly due to the fact that the billing system was not designed to fit different payment plans and new services.
- 74 -



Table 2. Quality of Service Indicators
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Rcported faults per I00 lines  86     57      75     85      90     61      80      80
Failts deared wthin 72 hours  65%    62% /    57%    72%    62%    52%    500/0   700/o
Billing faults daimed per t 000 lines  56  27  110    47     50     35      70    108
Billing caims resalved within 30 days  84%    85%    81%    66%    680/o   52%    4G%    35%
II. Lei!al Framework
In 1992, the enactmnent of Law 22/92 (and Decree 23/92) created an autonomous regulatory authority
responsible for post and telecommunications, Instituto Nacional das Comunicacoes de Mocambique (INCM),
under the direct authority of the Ministry of Transport & Communications. The telecommunications law
included provisions for the liberalization of value-added services (i.e., internet service provision) and allowed
the establishment of joint-ventures (JVs) with foreign direct participation up to 50 percent of shares. However,
fixed and mobile services remained under the monopoly of the public company TDM and the establishment of
the regulator was delayed until 1997.
In 1999, the Government enacted Law 14/99 which grants financial and administrative autonomy to the
regulator. The law also opens the mobile segment to competition. However, it reserves a "transitional"
monopoly on fixed national and international services to TDM until its privatization and for a minimum of 5
year period from the day of its privatization. In addition, the law abolishes restrictions on foreign participation
and opens a way for TDM's privatization. The law is a framework law leaving most of the specific legislations
to secondary legislation. Key secondary legislation, which is critical to establish a comprehensive legal and
regulatory framework that allows new entrants to operate in a competitive and transparent environment, has
not to date been finalized and adopted.
Following its establishment, INCM undertook an evaluation of spectrum use and prepared a detailed frequency
spectrum allocation plan. However, the current frequency allocation is inappropriate for a competitive market
environment as TDM's mobile operator (TMM) uses 50 percent of the allocated frequencies in the 900 and
1800 MgHZ band. INCM also issued national standards and norms for telecommunications equipment and
designed a homologation process for importation of telecommunications equipment accepting international
certifications.
INCM has offices in Maputo (50 staff), Beira (5 staff) and Nanpula (5 staff). The excessive staffing is
inherited from the Ministry and is to be revisited. INCM estimates its annual budget needs to be around US$2
million per year. Currently, INCM's only source of revenue is a monthly contribution from TDM in the
amount of approximately US$50,000.
III. Market Structure
1. Telecomunica;oes de Moqambique (TDM)
1.1 Corporate Structure
Telecomunicacoes de Mocambique (TDM), the 100 percent state owned operator, is the sole provider of local,
long distance and international fixed telephony services in Mozambique. Through a ten year management
contract with a joint venture Telecomunicac6es M6veis de Mocambique (TMM), TDM is also the only
provider of mobile services in Mozambique.
- 75 -



Mozambique was one of the first countries in Africa to split telecommunications and postal services of Post,
Telephone and Telegraph (PTT). By decree 23/92 all telecommunications operations were arranged in a
corporatized public company, "Telecomunicac6es de Mocambique (TDM)", while postal operations were
grouped in "Correios de Mocambique". TDM was granted management and operational autonomy, although it
still reports to the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) on operational; and the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MPF) on financial issues. The company has recently prepared an application to be
registered as a Limited Liability Company, which will transform TDM into a share holding company.
Following an enabling legislation regarding foreign investment (see above), TDM entered into a number of
joint ventures and operates as a "quasi" holding company. Table 3 presents TDM's joint ventures/management
agreements. In addition, in 1997 TDM has acquired a small (0.03 percent) equity stake in Portugal Telecom.
TDM has also purchased small stakes in several Mozambican banking and insurance companies, including a 5
percent stakes in Banco Intemacional de Mocambique (BIM) and in Seguradora Intemacional de Mocambique
(SIM). In the development sector, TDM has a 25 percent stake in SDCM, the Maputo development corridor, a
development zone including a highway, electricity and telephone lines between Maputo and South Africa. In
addition to joint-ventures, TDM invests in intemational service entities such as INTELSAT (0.131 percent),
INMARSAT (0.05 percent) and RASCOM (1.6 percent).
Table 3. TDM Joint Venture Structure and Ownership
Joint venture                    Services                          JV Partner
TELEDATA                   Intemet, paging, VSAT, data    50% Portugal Telecom
TELESERVE                  Consumer premise equipment     50% Mauritius Telecom
TMM                        Mobile management company      DeTeCon gets a management fee+ share of
the revenues, assets 100% TDM owned
TV CABO                    Cable TV                       50% Visabeira (Portugal)
TELEVISA                  Line installation and maintenance   50% Visabeira (Portugal)
LTM                        Directory services
TELECONSULTORES            Consulting                     50% Bemt Nilsson (earlier Swedtel)
The policy and supervision of the company is vested in the Board of Directors, which is an executive board.
The Board has seven members renewed every three years: the Managing Director; Operations, Finance &
Logistics, Human Resources and Customer Relations and Informatics Deputy Managing Directors; as well as
a representative of the employees and a representative of the Minister of Planning and Finance.
Since 1989, TDM has been implementing a retrenchment program, as well as training and retraining program
encouraging employees to complete university. As a consequence, the number of employees reduced from
2,486 in 1993 to 2,287 in 2000. TDM plans a further decrease reaching 2,000 prior to privatization planned
for 2002. At the same time, the company faces a highly competitive labor market for skilled workers. Only 10
percent of TDM's employees are university (master or bachelor) graduates, many recruited in their fourth year
of studies. In addition to regular employees, the company has about 800 contractual staff for security, cleaning
and other non operational activities, which it plans to divest into a separate TDM owned companies (possibly
with a private partner). According to the Privatization Law employees are entitled to up to 20 percent of the
stock.
1.2 Financial Performance
TDM's accounts are regularly audited since 1992 (first by KPMG and since 1996 by Emst& Young). The
company has been implementing the auditors recommendations, including on inventory and revaluation of
- 76 -



fixed assets. The Balance Sheet of December 31, 1999 shows an increase in total assets of 22 percent
compared to 1998, fundamentally financed by own funds, which increased by 24 percent compared to the
previous year. Arrears in accounts receivable are 6 percent of total, mainly due to late and non payment of
some government agencies. While TDM increasingly raises money from commercial banks, it still relies on
grants and soft loans (European Union, Japanese Government, Agence France de Developpement, BADEA,
South African Development Bank, African Development Bank) for financing some of its investments, mainly
for rural operations, but also for building out the highly profitable cellular network. With medium and long
term debt at around $60 million in 1999 (and $67 million in 2000), TDM has reached the debt level authorized
by the state. The company has therefore submitted to Government a position paper on a debt restructuring
proposal.
Table 4. Summarized Balance Sheet for 1999
US$
Assets
Current assets              64,329,225
Fixed assets               197,805,837
TOTAL        262,135,062
Liabilities
Short term                  55,728,357
Medium and long term        50,227,501
TOTAL        105,955,857
Shareholders Funds
Capital                    102,262,098
Net profit for the year      4,849,637
Other                      107,111,734
TOTAL        156,179,205
TDM's gross revenues amounted to MZM 1,240,019 million in 1999 (US$93 million) representing an increase
of 20 percent over the previous year. The breakdown of revenues demonstrates the changing business
environment and the tariff rebalancing undertaken by the company since 1998.
Table 5. TDM Revenues from Operations
Revenues                                              1998                1999
Services                       US$        %        US$        %
Sales of mnaterial                                  96,575   0.10/0     98,427   0.1%
Fixed line local national and international outgoing calls)   59,902,930  70.2%   64,623,480  69.3%
Installation and monthly fee                      7,188,352   8.4%   7,754,818   8.3%
Public phones (attended and cards)                2,576,238   3.0%   3,291,862   3.5%
Mobile telephony                                  7,842,459   9.2%    12,196,560  13.10%
Telex                                              352,870   0.40/,    138,430   0.1%
Leased lines                                      1,584,489   1.9%   1,648,300   1.8%
Settlements received from incoming international calls  12,044,210  14.1%   10,953,023  11.7%
Other                                              979,864   1.1%      290,319   0.3%
Gross revenues                                   85,379,634  100.0%   93,240,400  100.0%
Revenues from mobile and data versus fixed telephony: Fixed telephony continues to be the main source of
income, having generated MZM 859,438 million in 1999 (US$64 million) corresponding to about 70 percent
of the total gross income. However, mobile telephony replaced settlement revenues (received from foreign
operators for terminating calls to Mozambique) as the second most important income generator in 1999.
Income from the provision of mobile telephony reached MZM  162,204 million in 1999 (US$12 million), an
- 77 -



increase of 71 percent compared to the previous year, representing 14 percent of total income of TDM for
1999, against 10 percent in 1998. Revenues from leased lines, although still low, have also increased and
reached MZM 21,921 million (US$1.6 million), representing 1.8 percent of the total income of the company
and a growth of 14 percent in relation to the previous year.
Revenuesfrom national versus international calls: The composition of fixed telephony revenues also reflects
a changing pattern. In 1999, revenues from fixed telephony were 70 percent from national (including
installation, monthly fee, local and national long distance) and 30 percent from international traffic, compared
to 64 percent and 36 percent in 1998 respectively. Although during 1999 outgoing international traffic on fixed
lines increased by 10 percent totaling 20,792 thousand minutes, compared to a mere 1.5 percent increase in
national traffic to 600,721 thousand impulses, falling international and rising national tariffs have resulted in
the relative greater increase of revenues generated by national versus international traffic.
Table 6. Distribution of Revenues from Fixed Line
1998                  1999
Services                    US$         %          US$    |   %
Local and national long distance calls     31,149,524    52%      37,481,6181  58%
International outgoing calls               21,565,055    36%      19,387,044   300/a
Installation and monthly fee                7,188,352    12%       7,754,818   12%
Settlement revenues: Net settlement revenues, calculated by the difference between settlements paid to TDM
by foreign operators for completing calls to Mozambique and those paid by TDM to international operators
for completing calls generated in Mozambique, were showing a positive balance in 1999 in favor of TDM of
MZM 62,014 million (US$3.6 million) as more people call Mozambique than call abroad from the country.
However, developing countries are under pressure by foreign operators and Government to reduce the
settlement rates they charge. For instance, the United States Federal Communications Commission has
demanded that Mozambique reduced its settlement rate vis-a-vis US operators to US$0.23 in 2002, which is
below the current rate of SDR 0.3 (US$0.39). As a result, a reduction in net settlement revenues is expected,
which will reduce foreign exchange resources of TDM.
Table 7.Settlement Revenues (US$)
l    1997          1998         1999
Settlements received from foreign operators    12,226,299    10,971,746    8,593,350
Settlements paid to foreign operators          7,642,376     6,649,818     4,934,926
Net settlements revenue                        4,583,923     4,321,927     3,658,424
In summary, the share of revenues generated by outgoing and incoming (net settlement revenues) international
calls today is only 28%, compared to 34% in 1998. This is low when compared to other monopoly operators in
the region who typically eam about 70% of their revenues from intemational service as they have not
undertaken tariff rebalancing like TDM. As a result, TDM is less dependent on international calls and is well
prepared to face competition in this area.
-78 -



Graph 1. Distribution of TDM revenues
TDM  Revenues 1998                                           TDM  Revenues 1999
7S%                                             6%                         E Installation, monthly
10%                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fee, local and national
14%                       ~~~~~~~~~~~traffic
* International traftic and
net settlement
49%
52%      r3 Mobile
O3 Other
Note: "Mobile" includes revenues from international calls made from mobile phones.
1.3 Tariff Rebalancing
In 1997 a three-year tariff rebalancing plan has been agreed between the TDM and State Commission on
Salaries and Prices. (Since the general price liberalization in Mozambique, SCSP has been responsible for
price regulation of services under monopoly, although the Law on Telecommunications of 1999 lists tariff
regulation as one of the functions of INCM). The plan (presented in the below table) envisages an increase of
39% of monthly fee and 80% of local and national usage charges and a reduction of 40% of installation and
39% of international charges over the course of four years.
Table 8. Tariff Rebalancing Plan (US$)                                         __-
Service        Oct-97 Jar98 Ap r-98      8 Oct-98 Jan99 Ap r-99 ul99 Oct-99 Sep-00 Mar-C
Installation           50     50    50    45       45     45     45    40      40     35    30
Monthly fee           6.99    7.5   7.75    8       8     8.2    8.4    8.6    8.7    8.8   9.75
Impulse               0.048  0.053  0.059  0.065  0.071  0.076  0.082  0.086  0.091  0.088  0.09
Calls to:      SADC  0.78   0.74    0.7   0.67   0.63    0.6   0.57   0.54   0.52   0.49   0.49
Africa Group I  1.46   1.39   1.32   1.25   1.19   1.13   1.07   1.02   0.97   0.92   0.92 l
Europe/Rest of Afica  2.6   2.47   2.35   2.23   2.12   2.01   1.91   1.82   1.72   1.64   l.64
Asia/Amercias/Oceani:  2.92   2.47   2.35   2.23   2.12   2.01   1.91   1.82   1.72   1.64   1.64
Note #1: SADC includes South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe
Note #2: On local calls one impulse equals three minutes. On national long distance calls the corresponding minutes to an impulse
vary with the distance. For calls to localities (i) closer than 50km a pulse equals 1.5 minutes,
(ii) between 50-250 km away a pulse equals 24 seconds; and (iii) further than 250 km a pulse equals 15 seconds.
TDM has implemented most of the agreed plan, although there has not been effective monitoring of the
agreement. hiternational charges have been reduced by an average of 35 percent since 1997, but are still high
compared to international standards. Installation fee has also been reduced to as low as US$24. With regard to
- 79 -



the monthly fee and local usage charges, depreciation of the MZM has made it difficult for TDM to fulfill the
plan. The monthly fee has been increased from 90,067 MZM in 1997 to 114,000 MZM in 2000, however has
decreased in dollar terms from US$7.8 to US$6.7 over the same period. Local and national usage charges were
increased by 17 percent in MZM, but increased only slightly in dollar terms. Further increase of the monthly
fee and local usage charges is necessary to allow for effective rebalancing. Once this plan has been
implemented TDM plans to fix tariffs in US dollars.
Table 9. TDM's Tariffs (US$)
1997  1 1998    1999        2000
Installation                 49       45        34       24
Mond-ly fee                  7.8      7.8       8.4      6.7
Local and national (impulse)    0.061    0.070    0.088    0.071
Calls to:           SADC   0.79       0.71     0.58     0.52
Africa Group I]  1.49     1.34     1.13     1.00
Europe/Rest of Afica  2.64     2.38     1.99      1.77
Asia/Amercias/Oceani   2.96     2.38      1.99     1.77
2. Telecomunica,ces M6veis de Mo,ambique (TMM)
The provision of cellular services began in 1997, marketed under the brand name mCel, and is practically the
monopoly of TDM. TDM signed a 10 year management contract with TMM, a joint venture between TDM
(74%) and DeTeCon (26%), owned by Deutsche Telecom. TDM owns the mCells network infrastructure
(switching and transmission, billing system) and other assets such as buildings and shops; and is responsible
for investment. TMM has its own sales staff. In addition to a management fee paid to TMM based on a
revenue sharing agreement between TDM and DeTeCon (DTC), dividends are paid out in the proportion of the
joint venture ownership. Revenues from mobile telephony are reflected in TDM's accounts.
T'he GSM network has 2 switching nodes and 50 cell sites. In the South, the coverage is Maputo and the main
roads to South Africa and Swaziland (the corridor), as well as towards Xai-Xai in the North. In Central
Mozambique, the network covers Beira and parts of the main road to Zimbabwe after inauguration of a second
switch in Beira in November 2000. Beira is linked via satellite to Maputo, whereas base stations west from
Beira have been connected with terrestrial links. Coverage of Northem Mozambique is planned for the second
quarter of 2001 with an introduction of a third switch in Nampula connected via satellite to Maputo. Overall
the cellular network reaches I million people in Maputo, 500,000 in Beira and about 100,000 in the rest of the
areas covered.
Just as in other countries, cellular subscribers have grown exponentially and reached 62,000 in February 2001.
A pre-paid service, branded under the Giro name, was introduced in September 2000. As a result, in 2000 the
subscriber base grew by more than 350 percent within a year. However, traffic per customer has reduced as
pre-paid customers are more price conscious using the service less and making less intemational call. Average
revenue per user (ARPU) in the mobile network is about US$40 per month. Currently, 95 percent of the
cellular subscribers also have a fixed phone. However, with pre-paid mobile services (which usually do not get
disconnected after the six months period indicated) some substitution is expected as people may increasingly
subscribe to receive calls without paying the monthly fee charged on a fixed line.
Graph 2. Service Penetration (1993 - 2001 estimates)
- 80 -



Fixed, Mobile and Internet Penetration (1993-2001)
120,000 -
100,000 -
,.-        | +~-*- Fixed
80,000 -
Mobile
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Internet
60,000 -  ¢         - . Cable TV
40,000 -           *  Public phones
40,000; 
20,000 -
0     X .     x K W-, --e
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Cellular tariffs are still high. Subscription is 400,000 MZM (US$22), monthly fee is 509,000 MZM (US$28)
and local calls cost 4,520 MZM (US$0.25) in peak time. Pre-paid starter kit costs 150,000 MZM (US$8) for
30 days, 300,000 MZM (US$16) for 45 and 600,000 (US$32) MZM for 90 days. Usage charge is 9,740
MZM (US$0.5).
International calls are charged the local cellular tariff in addition to TDM' s international call prices.
3. Televisa
Televisa is a JV company 50 percent owned by TDM and 50% by Visabeira, a Portuguese holding company
with 10 years Mozambican presence. The company started operations in 1999 on a contractual base with
TDM for whom it installs and maintains the access and support network (cable, microwave, etc.). TVCabo,
the cable operator used to use Televisa's services but currently installs and maintains its network itself
Televisa's turnover was about US$13 million in 2000. The company has 700 employees from which 85
percent are local.
4. TVCabo
TDM set up a cable TV operator in 1998, as a 50 percent owned joint venture with Visabeira. TVCabo has an
administrative Board with representatives from both shareholders with the chairmanship rotating between
them. The board nominates the General Director who then appoints the technical and financial managers. The
company has 30 employees, including two expatriates.
TVCabo built its own infrastructure, including a fiber optic link to the head end, instead of leasing it from
TDM, as the latter would have taken too much time. In its second year of operation, TVCabo has 5,000
customers. It has cabled 19,000 households in Maputo out of the 26,000 it estimates to be potential customers
(households with electricity and sufficient income). As the most prosperous clients are already cabled,
- 81 -



TVCabo is moving into the poorer areas of town. The company is also planning to extend its coverage to
Nampula and Beira (installing a new head end).
TVCabo plans to expand its services to include broadband Internet access and eventually interactive TV. The
company uses network design and technology (asymmetric, hybrid fiber and coaxical, bi-directional cable),
which will allow it to grow and offer broadband Internet services. This market however is constrained by low
PC penetration (about 10,000-20,000 in the whole country). TV penetration is estimated to be higher (100,000
in Maputo), but would require an expensive set top box to be able to connect to the Internet.
5. Teledata
Teledata, the largest commercial Internet service provider in Mozambique, was established in 1989 as a joint
venture between TDM (50 percent) and Portugal Telecom International (50 percent) with a paid in capital of
US$750,000. Its executive Board comprises three Portugal Telecom and two TDM representatives. It employs
60 employees in addition to contractors. Tumover in 2000 was around US$3 million, compared to US$0.5
million in 1997, which can mainly be attributed to the rising demand for data communications services by the
financial sector.
Teledata started out as data service provider for banks and businesses, but has since extended its services to
offer Internet, paging and VSAT services. Its Internet infrastructure consists of 19 points of presence, at least
one in each province. Teledata owns a direct 64kbit link to Portugal, where traffic is routed to its final
destination. It has about 3,500 subscribers equally divided between business and residential users. Customers
pay US$25 a month for an account with unlimited usage in addition to the 8 cents/three minutes local call to
TDM (same price as for voice). Teledata also operates an Internet cafe and plans to open one in each province.
Usage in the Internet cafe is charged at 55 cents per quarter hour (10,000 MZM).
Originally, Teledata relied solely on TDM's infrastructure. In 2000, VSAT service was introduced to secure
the network and to expand service where TDM's infrastructure does not extend. So far 16 VSAT terminals
have been installed in the greater Maputo area, but the network allows for 300 and Teledata plans to extend
coverage in the whole country. Teledata offers VSAT connection using X.25 and frame relay.
6. Other ISPs
Mozambique was the 4th country in Africa to connect to the Internet in 1994. However, internet subscribers
are still below 10,000. There are eight ISPs in Maputo, including the University, Teledata (about 3,500
subscribers), Virtual Connections (2,500 subscribers), Tropical (2,000 subscribers), Computer Connections,
ENIL, and other small ISPs (all together about 1,000 subscribers). Most of them use TDM's international
gateway, while Teledata has its own link through Portugal and the University through South Africa. Virtual
Connection is in the process of installing its own infrastructure and gateway. Teledata is the only ISP with
nation wide points of presence. Connecting from Beira through the other ISPs requires a long distance call to
TDM's Maputo gateway.
To increase access, three public Internet access points have been established in Maputo, one run by Teledata,
one by a small ISP and one by TDM itself for business travelers. There are also telecenters in Manhica north
from Maputo and Namaacha near Swaziland border. Apparently, a teleradiology connection has been tested
between Beira's and Maputo's hospitals with unsuccessful results due to limited bandwidth.
In 1997, the University received funding from the Canadian Development Agency to build a VSAT network to
link to the University of Rhodes, part of South African University internet system (UNINET). In addition, the
- 82 -



University received World Bank financing to set up its 384 kbps link (voice and data) for video conferencing,
including 64kbps for data and Internet for the World Bank (DAMA). Today the University connects to MCI
Worldom. A bottleneck for the university is long wait for the access lines from TDM as its 100 circuits have
been exhausted. In 1997, the USAID Leland initiative financed a 128 kbps line connection to the Internet for
TDM. In exchange, TDM gave free access to emerging ISPs for six months. As a follow up, USAID plans to
give a 200,000 grant to Virtual Connections to build its own international gateway and extend its services to
three provincial capitals: Beira, Nampula and Quelimane. While these projects are good to jump-start the
market, in the long run they may distort competition. The university for instance not only gives access to
faculty members but offers the service to outside people on commercial terms. In that respect they should be
treated as any other ISP.
Leased line prices are high: a local 64 kbps leased line costs US$280-2,200; an international 64 kbps line costs
US$2200-4700 per month. Tariffs paid by users are also high: an Internet account costs anything between
US$25-40 a month. ISPs are thinking of establishing an association in order to discuss issues such as peering
and the possibility of establishing an Internet exchange point to aggregate traffic and negotiate more preferable
bandwidth prices. However, there is a substantial mistrust among them and the regulator is weak to facilitate
data collection or discussions. Another important area for all ISPs is local content development. The main
Mozambican portal imensis.co.mz is connecting to Teledata. Finally, the regulation of Voice over IP (VOIP) is
of common concem to both the Regulator and the ISPs.
- 83 -



Air Transport Sector Overview
I.    Sector Statistics
To date, Mozambique cannot adequately rely on an air transport system which is efficient and competitive
to (i) meet booming demand from the tourism sector and capture significant tourism flows effectively
estimated to reach US$52 billion by 2010 region-wide; (ii) facilitate domestic and regional market
integration, in particular increase regional linkages through the development corridors, and improve trade
logistics of products from distant agricultural areas to commercial markets; and (iii) link remote rural areas
of the country. Difficulties in current provision of air services is reflected in the leveling off of air transport
activity not due to lack of demand but resulting from inadequate service.
Chart 1:
Percentage Distribution of Passengers
in Year 2000
Regional
27%
Domestic
63%
Intercontin
ental
Others    9%
1%
The total air traffic in Mozambique in 2000 was 774,875 passengers. Out of this 273,158 (35%) was
international traffic (27% regional and 9% intercontinental), out of which LAM transported 14%. The
remaining 496,173 passengers were domestic traffic, out of which LAM transported 425,540 (55%).
Passenger traffic growth rate has averaged 10% per annum over the past three years, volume increases
originating mainly from domestic and regional markets but the aircraft growth has averaged only 8%,
resulting in a mismatch of supply of air transport services and demand from increasing passenger traffic.
Table 1: Main traffic indicators from Mozambican airports 1993-2000
Item        1993     1994      1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000
Aircraft    73,581    78850    34,146   32,814   36,800   36,645   40,915    47,823
Passengers  746,764  831,605  523,519  519,978  576,389  597,783  689,645  774,875
Cargo       23,271   24,220   5,651     5,825     6,294    5,445     6,657     13,252
(tons)       I__      _   _     I__      _   _      I_ _     I_ _      I_ _            I
Analysis of traffic volume shows a clear segmentation between the regional & domestic traffic, where the
bulk of traffic growth is registered and long-haul traffic, where the growth has been very low (10 percent).
- 84 -



Recent figures in movement of aircrafts (See chart 2) also suggest leveling off of regional air traffic growth
and deceleration of intercontinental air traffic growth. In contrast, the trend of passenger traffic (See chart
3) as seen in the distribution over the past year, has been an increase in regional and intercontinental traffic
patterns.
Chart 2: Distribution of movements of aircrafts & Chart 3: Distribution of passengers by destination
Regional Distribution of Movements of Aircrafts  500000   Distribution of Passengers by Destination,
30000-                                              450000
400000-
~~~ 25000                             o~~~~~~~~~~~ ~350000~
;R20000                                            w 300000-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 250000
O15000 -                                           200000
E                                                 .00  1500000
LUI                     ~~~~~~~~~E
00 
500                                                 50000 
Domestic  Regional  Intercontinlental  Others       Domestic   Regional    Intercontinental  Others
031998           E1999            02000             0 13 98          *1999020
These trends can probably be explained by the fact that (i) international traffic and recently regional traffic
are increasingly diverted to the region hub-and-spoke airport Johannesburg (where I 1 million passengers
can make up to 30 connections a day) and that (ii) Mozambican airports are primarily single-carrier
airports as the bulk of their traffic comes from one carrier LAM (more than 2/3rd of scheduled traffic),
operating a network primarily domestic and regional.
Table 2: Numbers of passengers transported by LAM in Year 2000
2000      %  of total passengers in 2000
Domestic                                         425540                  54.92%
Regional                                          79243                  10.23%
Intercontinental                                  26320                   3.40%
Intemational (Regional + Intercontinental)       105563                  13.62%
Total                                            531103                  68.54%
Both the regional and the intercontinental traffic have been regulated until recently by bilateral air transport
agreements between Mozambique and the respective contracting states. These agreements incorporate
mechanisms to control traffic capacities, frequencies etc. and are periodically renegotiated at ministerial
level. The domestic scheduled air transport in Mozambique has been operating under quasi monopoly, with
the consequence that the route network and aircraft types in use have been dictated by the operator, not by
demand. The lack of effective competition on the domestic segment has probably enabled LAM to enjoy a
very high growth rate under a monopolistic umbrella.
Table 3: Distribution of Passenger transported on LAM by Region and selected Airports
- 85 -



1999    2000       2000 LAM/ 2000 Total Passengers in...
Maputo        225684  248064                       56.51%
Domestic           136528   159136
Regional            72811    72062  _____
Intercontinental    16345    16866
Beira        107095  131395                       89.61%
Domestic           103551   114967
Regional            3544    6974
Intercontinental      0       9454
Nampula         53969   58198    _                 96.27%
Domestic            53969   58198
Regional              0        0
Intercontinental      0        0
Quelimane        38.7    41145                      94.46%
Domestic            38.7    41145
Regional              0        0
Intercontinental      0        0
Total        386787  478802                      69.43%
As can be seen, the main element of Mozambique's domestic air transport is LAM's scheduled route
network. On the domestic routes, which are being operated under quasi monopoly, there are low frequency
of flights and the cost of service (CASK) 30 percent, higher than that of LAM's competitors in similar
distances. The national carrier LAM (LM) enjoys the highest load factor (71 percent) among operators in
the region and registers repeated long passenger waiting list averaging 40 percent of available seats.
Chart 4: Loadfactor comparison with other regional airlines
80%1
70%_                                                           67 O7%69 I Y
60%-                     N7O/% 6586%/6
50%- 48%
43%/43 %
40%'
WT SD SW Z9 TC QMGH GN 4Z ET. H L6_MDRIK  MKQN       M I AT MN AH VR TU MKTM
This indicates that there is a significant unsatisfied demand and a need to review fleet adequacy.
Sb6



Difficulties in providing adequate service coverage throughout the country are also illustrated by airport
statistics which point to low traffic volumes 780,000 passengers and 13,352 tons of freight in 2000 and
reveal that service is mainly provided in certain pockets of the country.
Table 3: Distribution of passengers movements by airports
1998              1999               2000
Maputo                          333,149           391,040            443,295
Beira                           105,119           119,420            146,630
Nampula                         51,460             56,210            60,450
Quelimane                       38,240             43,985            43,560
Tete                            15,249             18,674             19,070
Pemba                           20,201             22,677             18,760
Lichinga                         8,689             9,973              9,210
Inhambane                        1,085             2,632              10,620
Vilankulo                       17,947             13,785             12,980
Chimoio                          1,217              1,819             1,250
Others                           5,427      _      9,430              9,050
Total                           597,783           689,645            774,875
II.    Current Legal Framework
In 1996, the Government of Mozambique (GOM) adopted a Transport Policy aimed at restructuring the
sector and introducing competition in the Air Transport sector. A set of regulations was enacted in August
1998, with the intention of separating policy formulation, technical and economic regulation and sector
operations.
Policy formulation was under the responsibility of MTC whereas technical regulation was entrusted to a
new civil aviation authority INAC, to be set up as an autonomous agency under the tutorship of MTC.
Economic regulation in particular routes allocation, licensing award procedures, fare setting and revisions
was entrusted to MTC and the Council of Ministers. The management of 19 airports was entrusted by
Decree 3/98 to Aeroportos de Mocambique (ADM), which operates under supervisory authority of
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) as an autonomous public company. In addition, the
main carrier, Linhas Aereas de Mocambique, E.P. (LAM) was incorporated as a limited liability company
with State and employees as shareholders. The domestic market was opened to competition on all routes
except the main air transport routes. In addition, exclusivity was granted to the main carrier, LAM for a 5
year period.
The 1996 air transport policy was effective in structuring the sector institutions along more defined
responsibilities. The initial market opening had a limited effect as the rules of entry remained cumbersome
and subject to series of Government authorizations. This web of regulations is not conducive to rapid
traffic development and is not in line with the GOM's stated objective of rapid expansion of efficient air
services. The trend worldwide is towards the adoption of open sky agreements whereby one country
(unilateral open sky as the united Arab Emirates, Singapore), two countries or set of countries (EU,
Mercosur, NAFTA.) agree to lift all restrictions on the number of carriers, number of frequencies, type of
aircraft.
- 87 -



III.   Market Structure
1.    ADM
Currently all 19 major airports are managed by ADM. ADM is a public company created by Decree 3/98
of 10 February and the result of the transformation of ADM E.E. a parastatal that had been established by
Decree 10/80 of 19 November. The transformation from a parastatal to a public company was a reflection
of the withdrawal of the State from the commercial functions and part of the GOM's overall program of
restructuring and privatization of the previously centralized and state-controlled economy.
2.    International Airports
Three international airports Maputo, Beira, and Nampula handle the majority (80 percent) of passenger
traffic and 70 percent of aircraft traffic, whereas the rest is split among the various sixteen principal
airports. Maputo International Airport alone accounted for approximately 400,000 passengers and 23,000
aircrafts in 2000. These traffic levels are much lower than the minimum volumes for efficient air transport
infrastructure and operations. Although, Maputo is the biggest airport of the country, there is room to reach
generally accepted economic threshold volume of 1 million passengers for an airport.
Table 4: Movements of aircrafts by airport cities
City                         1998                 1999                2000
Maputo                      15,614               17,344               22,733
Beira                       5,624                6,560                9,140
Nampula                     2,405                2,447                2,210
Quelimane                   3,268                3,002                2,060
Tete                        1,028                1,408                1,260
Pemba                       1,456                1,578                1,180
lichimga                     999                 1,052                 1,010
Inhambane                    320                  720                  1,410
Vilankulo                   3,972                3,930                3,800
Chimoio                      364                  545                   40
Others                      1,595                2,330                2,610
lotal                     36,645               40,916               47,453
As a result of the current characteristics of inefficient service coverage, there is a risk of international and
regional traffic being diverted to other destinations and the regional hub-and-spoke airport Johannesburg
instead of capitalizing on increased linkages with the development corridors and feeding the domestic
market with increased traffic flows, which will ultimately result in increased frequencies, spreading fixed
costs, and improved affordability of services.
Price of service indicators
Traffic volume is also affected by the fact that aeronautical fees charged at Maputo Intemational Airport
are substantially higher (US$72 per passenger) than competing airports: Johannesburg (US$29.95), Harare
(US$49.57) or Lilongwe (US$5,392). In comparison with other airports, ADM relies heavily on
aeronautical charges (landing, runways, aircraft parking and passengers fees) for its revenues (94 percent).
- 88 -



The current trend for airports worldwide is to increase the landside charges (commercial revenues from
boutiques, malls, office leasing, car parking etc.), which are less price sensitive and decrease aeronautical
revenues to increase airport competitiveness in attracting other airlines.
Table 5: Price of Service Indicators
TDomestic           | Regional            International
Comparison of Passenger Service Charges fUS$)
Maputo              5.00                 10.00                20.00
Harare              2.63                 20.00                20.00
Johannesburg        3.03                 8.71                 8.71
Lilongwe            3.16                 20.00                20.00
Com arison o fAeronautical Fees per Passenger (US$)
Maputo              22.90                32.90                72.38
Harare              5.65                 47.44               49.57
Johannesburg        9.62                 24.21               29.95
Lilongwe            6.43                 46.95                53.92
Maputo International Airport's structure
The Maputo International Airport (MIA) is located approximately 3.5 km north of Maputo City. Due to
its location and traffic volumes, it is the most important airport of Mozambique, serving not only the
Capital but the areas in the South of the country. The terminal building and other operational facilities
were built more than 30 years ago, but are inadequate for the current traffic flow and passenger demand.
3.    LAM
LAM, SARL was created by Decree 69/98 of 23 December transforming the legal status of the company to
a limited liability company (SARL). On this occasion the first privatization phase of the company took
place, by means of the sale of 20 percent of the share capital to the current managers, technical staff and
employees. Simultaneously with the transformation from a public company to a SARL type company, the
State promoted the financial sanitation of the company by pardoning the existing debts and assuming the
bad debts. This operation allowed for an improvement in LAM's own capital from (US$12,244,000) in
1998 to US$11,900,000 in 1999.  Currently, the share capital is 156,000,000 million meticals
(approximately US$9,200,222 at an average exchange on 31 December 2000), of which 80 percent and 20
percent are held by the State and employees respectively. LAM integrates various business areas, with
different profiles of strategic positioning and critical factors of success: Passenger transport; Cargo
transport; Light aviation; Maintenance; and Handling.
Airlines operations
The servicing of Mozambican skies is primarily through LAM which is the designated carrier currently for
10 traffic rights. The carrier has been actively using 4 traffic rights to Portugal, Johannesburg, Harare, and
Dubai. The carrier also operates an extensive domestic network. The company has entered several joint
ventures with ADM for groundhandling services and catering businesses. In addition, the company holds
various equity participation in major tourist ventures (POLANA (20%), AVIS (49%), CARDOSO (20%),
ROVUMA). A few number of local airline companies operate scheduled (TTA) and unscheduled services.
SAA operates daily flights whereas TAP, Air France, Air Mauritius, Kenya Airways also operate weekly
flights to Maputo.
- 89 -



Table 6: Distribution of Aircraft traffic by type of operators
1998       1999       2000           Total
Domiesic Commerial             2 .897   0;25,8       31,188      79,769
LAM                                  8,777      10,243     11,754  .30,774
TTA/Aier Servico                       92         810       1,322       2,224
Sabinair                             3,783      4,406       4,389      12,578
Others                               10,245     10,225     13,723   .34193
ReRional Commercial            12,09      13,701   13,336        39,056
LAM                                   1,695      1,837      1,872       5,404
TTA/Aier Servico                       10          8         1 1         29
Sabinair                              141        287         100         528
Others                               10,173     11,569     11,353      33,095
Intercontinental             347         233        410         990
LAM                                   105         83         228         416
TAP                                   144         126        182         452
Air France                             98         24          0          122
Others                                  1          0          0           1
Non -comril                 5138        1          2           5. 569
Voos Militares e Stae                  71         152       1,530       1,753
Aeroclubes e Locais                   1,311      1,146      1,359       3,816
Tota; f:>jl : 0t-  0     360000Xt 645  40916 ^\f; SAk47:ptt 0;s4 023  123
The company's most profitable businesses are handling and catering and its sales on the domestic and
regional market. The primary debt of the company relates to the financing of a B767 ( US$36 million
outstanding out of US$72 million) which weighs heavily on the company's income statement as the load
factor (utilization rate) is very low given LAM domestic and regional network. The company is currently
negotiating with various partners CATV and Alliance to lease the B767. Whereas 1999 was a good
financial year for LAM as a result of the reevaluation of assets and recapitalization (income levels reached
US$2 million), in financial year 2000, a serious decline was registered in LAM's financial situation as a
result of high fuel costs (dollar priced), depreciation of the local currency in which most revenues are
invoiced and the financial drain of the B767.
- 90 -



Chart 5: Revenue per employee for LAM (TM) is very low in comparison to other regional airlines
5180-
$160-                                                         151 $153
$140-                                                     $138
$120-                                             Sll 112
$100                                    $950050
$80                         $2  7  $77
S60           $58 $60 $61 $61
$40-
$20-
I  TM QM AH TC UM BP SD TU MD KQ SW  4Z RK HM AT MN SA MK
Table 7: LAM's Description of Operational Profits 1998-2000
1998               1999                2000
Audited (US$       Audited (US$       Unaudited (US$
'000)             '000)                '000)
Domestic services                21,335             20,767               24,415
Regional services                5,921               7,286               7,950
Intercontinental services        10,122             10,169               9,833
Sales of other services          3,022               2,117               3,114
Sales of trading stock             35                 30                   50
Trading stock produced            134                 38                   17
Other profits                    6,781               6,603                1,189
Total                            47,349             47,009               46,568
These resulting high costs of operations make it difficult to face competition and attract more traffic. As a
result, LAM is currently in financial distress with a US$2 million loss for 2000 and a 20 percent decrease
in its share of capital and is unable to finance critically needed investments to support development of air
services in line with the growing demand. The deterioration of the results in 2000, and the negative
estimates for 2001, place the companies book shareholders fund on a descending trend.
- 91 -



Chart 6: LAM's own share of capital
12 -             LAM's own share of capital
10 
C6
.4-
2-
1999         2000        2001 (est)
E] Own capital at year end
The domestic traffic generates more than 55 percent of passenger traffic. The segments with the greatest
growth levels between 1996 and 2000, were regional (10.9%) and the domestic (8.9%).
Table 8: Percentage growth ofpassenger traffic traveling in LAM
1996        1997        1998         1999        2000        96/00
Long haul     14.6%        7.5%        6.1%         0.3%       36.8%        3.4%
Regional       9.2%       24.9%        19.1%       24.4%        0.0%        10.9%
Domestic       0.1%        13.2%       3.7%        14.5%        13.8%       8.9%
Total         3.8%        15.4%        6.8%        16.3%       11.1%        8.9%
IV.   Conclusion
Without strategic alliance to a major airline group and adequate capital inflow, the airline does not benefit
from economies of scale as a feeder to other international or charter airlines or the presence of a hub and
spoke airport in the country to serve traffic connections from international and regional airports both in and
through Mozambique.  In addition, Maputo International Airport operates in a very competitive
environment with the proximity of several international airports and a hub in Johannesburg located within a
radius of less than 200 km from Maputo. LAM does not benefit either from economies of scope in terms of
marketing, information and reservation systems, frequent flyer programs and other electronic commerce
amenities, all of which are sought by today's travelers when selecting an airline.
The impact of these barriers on traffic development is best illustrated by a comparison of yield per mile for
various destinations. It costs US$0.7 /mile to fly from Europe to Maputo compared to US$0.2/mile from
Europe to the US, US$0.3/mile from Europe to Asia and US$0.4 - US$0.5/mile from Europe to West
Africa and South Africa. Unless specific actions are taken to liberalize effectively the sector, there is a risk
of traffic being further diverted to neighboring competing tourists destinations with less restrictive
regulations and airports infrastructure under expansion.
- 92 -



MAP SECTION






-'  Ot'CCBNGO         BANDed      , , NZA             f                                                                                                           5,   S::0    00
TANZANIAPAM
/ANG OLA    J   -9                                                    I
CC»                          1                                                                                                     ,! /  \A0 0 ;   :  3 --' '  '  S NGOD4i  /'T/ MecrbeA ,,/NANGA
0 F;CA, 7 {                                                                            '-  )f    _    S r'    '7~-            MOSPE *4 MACD        W' O ossetC -
DJ~  '~s INRMARRr *.
Z A M B I A 0                                                                                  -D *A1
i \"\5'                                            p-                       /.    PIALL  CA  M UBE CAN        CUiSS
_- ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     - j. .MTPRA\D?j                      EA EL A  D)                  PE,
sotmi~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt
M IFRBR                                  f CHEMBA               Mt }0
C' 'o~~~~~~~EC*
| xARINGUE) (A~~~~~IA,SS                                                      D EOPEIA D 0A AaL
I                                                                                   S s4                  CH ARE jr'! -NCN
ZAMBIA                                                                                                                          NAsN
84.'.............. X '   NIPAPE                                                                                                                          i, , GOJA\ '  M CAPZA M51fA
Z I~~~~~~~ \MBANuiB~   Wp    ME ..... .                                                                     : jCRiA  GO,D9U5,  '    FEUBR  AN    L  O   7- \
=~~.'                  \     HITuNLAC     (     JMUANCA  N       ,  
LLAMAS                                          CI  A =             I; j0A.0S                             ClU 0t   /%                                   t WDo
A                                                                                       P4,0,        -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pl   1, -
!: f :;_           _ _ _ _                                             .                            20; SCSS   :CAG
T ET AE   LA/
MASSE! H; - t T 0 ;;  0    I jg;,  f -D * P; ETE MACHAZE  . .
10~~~~~~~~~~~~  A~~~~~~~~~~~  ( ~           ~            ~           ~            AA
;tw_' =d=rtl! ; k>~~~~fet   MAbE)I5oRotiz                                                 CISEA          -etlynooperaton 2
,          o -M A CC\CU|A                                    -        te        i
t > a; '\, ~~~Choge  t-  ""..... ;                                                            ......, \t....... .Pcice caURAo
-,-E. 5mi_5r-   ;- <w  1 ;    ,---                 FUNHIIMOUOA 
.5,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
1= ,,, .~ARINJE) .HAI ' .DE
-                         j      ,.    )         ->,       -                 AHiNDE                       M  CLAM  B .O    Z3
ZIMBA1WE                                ,7MlI
L: . : D /: | g MnItipadan                  erlb BeA,npdofrob  W o   l MHANCAGW,y
-;:                                                                   =2 :r BUgrrdorlfnrnroyoeyntr_
Ks                                        35P 5 \ D 19., n .- 3e ; f ! 3Main roads
:4,
Rail corridors:
Operational
Currently non-operational                             22'-
CHCAAUI               IN    AMt  A NE                                                 Selected cities
,  ~ ~ ~   /      ONHSSINGA    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                           Province capitols
K       EUNHACOURO    7A\                                 ®       ~~~~~~~National capital
___    District boundaries
-  -  /                               ktkaetane          ----         ~~~~~~~Province boundaries
SOWTK:   '        <                 NHRRBHE                               '---   ~~~~~~~~~International boundaries
a.ti tpde e Repy, enha part ef Th. Won/S Bank G-pn ey
Ifsnela  slgl ltso n  ertn~o  e.dnanee



