Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3577 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Communication Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3577 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower letters dated August 
15, 2001 and October 31, 2001, respectively, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve reforms in the telecommunications, postal 
and air transport sectors of the Borrower (hereinafter collectively called the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ADM" means "Aeroportos de Mozambique" created by Decree 3/98 of February 
10, 1998;
(b)
"BM" means Banco de Moçambique, the Borrower’s central bank;
(c)
"CDM" means Correios de Moçambique, created by Decree 24/92;
(d)
 "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Special Account (hereinafter 
defined) respective Eligible Categories;
(f)
"ICT" means Communications and Information Technologies;
(g)
"INAC" means Instituto Nacional de Aviação Civil, the air transport 
regulatory authority defined by Decree 39/98 of 26 August 1998; 
(h)
"INCM" or "Instituto Nacional da Comunicações de Moçambique" means the 
Borrower’s communication sector regulatory agency created by Decree No. 22/92 of 
September 10, 1992;
(i)
"Initial Deposit" means the deposit specified in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(j)
"LAM" or "Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique" means the Borrower’s airlines, a 
limited liability company created by the Borrower’s Decree No. 69 dated December 23, 
1998;
(k)
"Meticais" means the Borrower’s currency;
(l)
"MIA" means Maputo International Airport;  
(m)
"MTC" means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of transport and 
communications;
Page  3
(n)
 "Project Financial Management Manual" or "PFMM" means the Borrower’s 
manual containing detailed arrangements regarding the financial management of the 
Project;
(o)
"Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the Borrower’s manual 
dated November 30, 2001, containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation 
of the different activities under the Project, including, inter alia, the 
institutional responsibilities, reporting structure, review and monitoring, 
procurement and disbursement, as may be amended from time to time with the prior 
consent of the Association;
(p)
"Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed on behalf of 
the Association on January 17, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on February 6, 2001;
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(t)
"TDM" or "Telecomunicações de Moçambique" means the Borrower’s  
communication company established pursuant to Decree 23/92; 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2012, and ending September 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2021, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United  States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, health and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  5
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account (the Project Account) in Meticais, in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter make an initial deposit in Meticais of an amount 
equivalent to $70,000 (the Initial Deposit) into such account to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project; 
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by the first day of each 
quarter each year during Project implementation such amounts as shall be required and 
agreed upon with the Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the 
amount of the Initial Deposit; and
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports,  the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
 Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to 
in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
consisting of three separate, but coherent reports of which:
(i) 
the financial report: (A) sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
the status report: (A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets, as the case may be; 
and
(iii) the procurement report sets forth the status of procurement under 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event are specified: 
(a) 
the Borrowers’ Telecommunications and Air Transport Letters of Sector 
Policies,  adopted on August 15, 2001, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project; and
(b) 
the Borrower has enacted any new legislation or regulation that may 
affect materially and adversely the Project. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory  to 
the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed to MTC a Project Manager and a Project 
Accountant, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has established within MTC a financial management and 
accounting system acceptable to the Association, including the PFMM;
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
retained, as provided in such Section and in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(e)
the Project Account has been opened.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro, 1679, P.O. Box 423
Maputo
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MOBANCO
6355/BMMO
258 1 42 19 12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Ismael Valigy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox   
Acitng Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Goods
   3,750,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
   5,300,000
100% 
services and
training, including
audits
(3)
Operating costs
     200,000
70% of local expenditures
(4)
Refinancing of Project 950,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   1,400,000
TOTAL
  11,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  9
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred under 
the Project on account of salaries and allowances of local contractual staff, travel 
costs and allowances, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, Special 
Account banking charges, office rental, supplies and utilities, but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for consultants firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) training; and (e) operating costs,  all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment 
made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures, as 
the case may be.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Page  10
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
Page  11
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the amount of  $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) reforming and 
restructuring its telecommunication, postal and air transport sectors to attract 
private management, know how and capital; (ii) developing an institutional and 
regulatory framework designed to promote competition and private investment in the 
telecommunication, postal and air transport sectors; and (iii) develop a strategy for 
increasing access to communication services in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A.
Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform
1.
Legal and Regulatory Reform
Development of a legal and regulatory framework for the telecommunications and 
postal sector including the revision and preparation of: (i) a new Law on 
Telecommunications; (ii) a set of telecommunications economic and technical 
regulations including on numbering, radio-spectrum management, price regulation, 
universal service, dispute resolution, competition and ICT development enabling; (iii) 
a tender to award two mobile licenses to private operators; (iv) model licenses and 
authorizations for the provision of telecommunications services;  (v) an offer to the 
World Trade Organization on a list of commitments pertaining to telecommunications 
services; and (vi) a new sector policy and related economic and technical regulations 
on the postal sector; all through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
Strengthening of: (i) telecommunications and postal policy making and sector 
analysis capabilities of MTC, (ii) telecommunications and postal regulatory, 
monitoring and licensing capacity of INCM, and (iii) MTC’s project management, 
procurement and financial management capacity; through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and equipment, including for frequency management and 
monitoring.
3.
Public Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization
(i)  
Privatization of TDM, including the preparation and issuance of its 
licenses; and (ii) preparation of a modernization strategy for CDM, through the 
Page  12
provision of technical advisory services.
4. 
Rural and Universal Access Strategy
Carrying out of the design and implementation of a rural and universal access 
strategy, including: (i) drafting of a rural strategy; (ii) regulation on universal 
access establishing a universal service fund; and (iii) support of rural network 
build-out and service provision through the provision of technical advisory services,  
training and equipment.
Part B:
Air Transport Sector Reform
1.
Legal and Regulatory Reform
Development of a legal and regulatory framework for the air transport sector 
including: (i) INAC technical and economic regulation supervision powers; (ii) 
revising ADM statutes; (iii) enacting air transport economic regulation; and (iv) 
provision of free licensing for scheduled domestic flights and for multi-designation 
of carriers for international scheduled operations; all through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
2.
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
Strengthening of: (i) air transport policy and legal formulation capabilities of 
MTC; (ii) air transport regulatory and monitoring capacity of INAC; and (iii) 
preparation of an open sky policy, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and equipment, including management information systems.
3.
Public Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization
(i)  Concessioning of the Maputo International Airport with private sector 
participation; (ii) developing a master plan to invite private participation in other 
airports in the Maputo development corridor to upgrade the infrastructure; and (iii) 
restructuring and privatization of LAM, through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  13
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more but less than $100,000, and estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$50,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  14
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project auditors and other audits or standard assignments 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
Page  15
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Project shall be coordinated by MTC.
2.
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
carrying out the Project, apply the annual work programs satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than three months before the beginning 
of each year, furnish to the Association for approval the draft annual work plan for 
the Project; (ii) by January 1 of each year, furnish to the Association the final 
annual work plan as approved by the Association, and carry out the activities for the 
year in question on the basis of such work plan; and
(c)
the Borrower shall, commencing six months after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Association semiannual reports on Project implementation including 
financial information, not later than one month after the end of each semester.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30 in each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31 in each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
4. 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the PIM in a form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and  (ii) shall not amend it, suspend it, abrogate it, repeal it or 
waive it so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or MTC 
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
The Borrower agrees that Project performance will be measured by the Indicators 
below, unless otherwise agreed by the Association:
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, INCORRECT FORMAT
