                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000930



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-35770 IDA-3577A)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.6 MILLION
                       (US$14.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                     FOR A

                COMMUNICATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT



                                             2009




Global Information and Communications department
Policy Division
Country Department 2 (AFCS2)
Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                       Currency Unit =
                       1.00 = US$ [ ]
                       US$ 1.00 = [ ]

                       FISCAL YEAR


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

$        United States Dollars
A/C      Aircraft average landing fee per ton in US$
ACSA     Airport Company of South Africa
ADM      Aeroportos de Moçambique
         Airport Management Company
ARPU     Average revenue Per User
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDM      Correios de Moçambique
         Mozambique Post
CMC      Community Multimedia Center
CSRP     Communication Sector Reform Project
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EASSy    Eastern Africa Submarine System
EMPSO    Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Management Report
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNSS     Global Navigation Satellite Systems
GSM      Global System for Mobile Communications
IACM     Instituto da Aviacao Civil de Mocambique
IATA     International Air Transport Association
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
INAC     Instituto nacional de Aviação Civil
         Civil Aviation Authority
INCM     Instituto Nacional de Communicações de Moçambique
         Telecommunication and Postal Regulatory Authority
ISR      Implementation Supervision Status
IT       Information Technology
ITU      International Telecommunications Union
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
         German government-owned development bank
KLM      Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij
         Royal Dutch Airlines
KPI      Key Performance Indicators
LAM      Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique
         National Airline
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEGCIP   Mozambique eGovernment and Communnication Infrastructure
         Project
MIA      Maputo International Airport
MTC      Ministry of Transport and Communication
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present value
OECS     Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAX      Passenger fees (domestic, regional, international) in US$
PDO      Project Devlopment Objectives
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation facility
PPIAF    Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSC      Project Steering Committee
RCIP     Regional Communications Infrastructure Program
RF       Results Framework
RNAV     Area Navigation
SADC     Southern African Development Community
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SEACOM   Privately funded venture which builts, owns, and operates a
         submarine fibre optic cable connecting communication carriers in
         South and East Africa.
TDM      Telecommunicações de Moçambique
         Public telecoomunication Company
TTL      Task team Leader
UGPTC    Unidade de gestão dos Projectos de Transporte e Communicações
         Project management Unit
USA      United States of America
UTICT    Unidade Técnica de Implementação da Política de Informática
WB       World Bank
     Vice President: Obiageli Ezekweseli
   Country Director: Luiz Pereira da Silva
    Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier
Project Team Leader: Isabel A.S. Neto
  ICR Team Leader: Isabelle Huynh
                                     REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                Communication Sector Reform Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 31
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Mozambique:
Country:                Mozambique              Project Name:             Communication Sector
                                                                          Reform Project
Project ID:             P073479                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-35770,IDA-3577A
ICR Date:               12/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
                        XDR 11.6M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 10.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Transport and Communications
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/20/2000     Effectiveness:                              06/14/2002
Appraisal:            07/02/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/27/2001     Mid-term Review:                            05/02/2005
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2006       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                              36                  37
Postal services                                                       24                      3
Telecommunications                                                    40                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                50                  33
Regulation and competition policy                                     50                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Luiz Pereira Da Silva                Darius Mans
Sector Manager:            Philippe Dongier                     Pierre A. Guislain
Project Team Leader:       Maria Isabel A. S. Neto              Mohammad A. Mustafa
ICR Team Leader:           Isabelle Huynh
ICR Primary Author:        Isabelle Huynh


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve access to and quality of efficient and affordable communications services by
creating an enabling environment for competition and private participation in sectors
deemed critical to facilitate national and regional market integration, i.e.,
telecommunications, postal and air transport infrastructure and services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile) to double from 0.8 (2000) to 1.6
Indicator 1 :     lines (2006) per 100 inhabitants - measured in # of subscribers per 100
                  inhabitants
Value
quantitative or   1.37%                    1.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2000               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Change in number of internet users per 1000 people
Value
quantitative or   1.64
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Change in annual average number of air transport passengers
Value
quantitative or   394671
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of rural population covered by GSM (%)
Value
(quantitative   2.7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %



                                                iii
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Change in number of public payphones
Value
(quantitative   3105
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                (a) Cel: cost of local 3 min call in US$ during off peak
                (b) Fixed: Change in price basket for res fixed line
Indicator 3 :
                (c) Interntl: cost of 3 min call to US in US$
                (d) Internet: Price basket USmonth
                (a) 0.33
Value                                       (a)
                (b) 14.6
(quantitative                               (b)
                (c) 6.21
or Qualitative)                             (c)
                (d) NA
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Annual airport tariff /fees
Value
                PAX: 5/10/20
(quantitative
                A/C: 15.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Annual number of (a) domestic and (b) international origins/destinations
Value
                (a) 6.75
(quantitative
                (b) 6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Annual average of number of seats available weekly (capacity)
Value
(quantitative   20653
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    06/25/2002         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/30/2002         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     1.25
  3    05/22/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     2.69
  4    12/04/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     4.05
  5    06/04/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     4.64
  6    11/29/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     5.38
  7    06/29/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     6.72
  8    12/01/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     6.93
  9    09/01/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     8.96
 10    03/17/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   10.53
 11    10/31/2007         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            13.33
                                                  Moderately
 12    05/30/2008         Satisfactory                                          13.91
                                                Unsatisfactory
 13    06/11/2008         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            13.91
                                                  Moderately
 14    12/22/2008         Satisfactory                                          14.44
                                                Unsatisfactory
 15    06/17/2009         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            15.42


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. At the time of project appraisal in 2000, Mozambique had a population of 17.3 million
(21 million today) with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP)/capita below US$ 500. About
70% of the population was living in rural areas. The political context was still bearing the
consequences of a long the civil war (16 years) that ended in 1992. The country's
economic strategy was geared towards the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the
economic and social issues. The economy was largely led by the State.

2. In this context, the project was designed in line with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) objectives of June 2000. One of the three main pillars of the CAS was to increase
economic opportunities through acceleration of private sector led growth. The project
supported the goal of improving economic opportunities by contributing to the creation of
an enabling environment for increased competition and private investment flows. On the
telecommunications and postal sector, the project was designed to specifically address
issues discussed in the CAS such as the need to open the market to new cellular operators
(to use private sector investment and competition to lower prices for end-users and
increase coverage/availability of phone services) and to seek a private sector equity
partner for the state owned telecommunications company to provide for capital
investments and to improve access throughout the country. In addition, it aimed at
supporting the development of rural areas through a universal access strategy based on
"smart-subsidies" to make up for market failures and assure increased access to
communications and information services in remote areas. On the air transport sector,
the project supported the CAS objectives by accelerating the de-monopolization of the
sector.

Main sectors issues at Appraisal:

3. The three sectors (telecommunications, postal and air transport) were characterized by
similar shortcomings: inadequate service provision, weak legal framework and regulatory
capacity, and lack of competition and private investment.

4. Telecommunications: the low teledensity was mostly due to the lack of competition and
lack of incentives to invest in infrastructure and services. In 2000, Mozambique had a
teledensity of 0.5 main fixed lines per 100 inhabitants, 62,000 mobile subscribers, high
prices (a 3 minutes call to the US cost US$6, 21) and less than 10,000 internet
subscribers, all numbers that placed Mozambique not only well below that of developed
countries, but also below most African countries with comparable geographic and
economic conditions. In the postwar environment, the low level of access and
prohibitively high prices, together with an inadequate legal and regulatory framework,
were the main issues that needed to be addressed through a revamping of the legislation,
and through the introduction of competition and increased private sector participation.
The Law 22/92 preserved the monopoly of Telecomunicações de Moçambique (TDM) on

                                                                                           1
fixed and mobiles services, and opened the value added services to competition. It had
little impact in promoting new entry of private operators and the establishment of the
regulator was delayed until 1997. In 1999, the Government enacted a new law intended to
accelerate the liberalization process. Law 14/99 opened the mobile segment to
competition, provided a monopoly on fixed services to TDM for a 5 year period from the
day of its planned privatization and abolished restrictions on foreign participation1. Still,
in the first years of 2000, the absence of competition kept the state-owned incumbent
operator (TDM) unable to meet up with market demand and population growth.

5. Post: the weak public postal system led to a severe decline in service provision and the
development of informal competition. Service provision was limited to 10 full-service
post offices located in the provincial capitals. 450 postal agencies were selling stamps,
whereas the number of mail items per capita per year had been stagnating around 0.4
during, which was extremely low compared to international standards (2 in Ghana, 7 in
Morocco, 45 in Brazil, and 170 in Portugal). Overall Correios de Moçambique (CDM)
was a poorly performing organization and private sector operators had entered the
market, especially in the express segment, to meet businesses' needs. In 1992,
decree24/92 transformed the Post into a state-owned company. However, no sectoral law
had been prepared, and Instituto Nacional das Comunicações de Moçambique (INCM) in
charge of also regulating the postal sector, had no department responsible for it

6. Air transport: costly, limited in frequency, and uneven in coverage throughout the
country the air transport system needed further reforms and modernization. In spite of a
forward-looking policy adopted in 1996 and a set of regulation in 1998 that provided for
the introduction of competition and the modernization of the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework, key barriers to entry remained that were not conducive to traffic
development. At the same time the historical carrier, Linhas Aeras de Moçambique
(LAM), was facing severe financial difficulties. Further reforms were needed to liberalize
the sector (authorizations and approvals for route allocation, licensing procedures, fare
setting and revisions) and provide opportunities to LAM and Aeroportos de Moçambique
(ADM) to be more competitive at the regional level.

Rationale for Bank's Involvement

7. Government showed strong willingness and commitment to reforms in the
communications sectors, and requested Bank's assistance in their implementation. The
Bank was uniquely placed to provide assistance to the Government of Mozambique
(GoM) for the implementation of its planned telecommunication, postal and air transport
reform program, given its: (a) experience in the process of regulatory reform, in
promoting private sector participation in the telecommunication, postal and air transport
sectors, and in setting up of enabling legal and institutional regulatory framework; (b)
regional role, particularly through its support to Southern African Development
Community (SADC) in coordination with other donors to ensure that national reforms in

1
  While TDM was never privatized, its exclusivity expired on December 31, 2007, thanks to a new sector
law approved with the support of the project in 2004.


                                                                                                         2
the telecommunication, postal and air transport sectors were consistent with broader
regional objectives; (c) extensive knowledge and experience in privatization of
government undertakings in International Development Association (IDA) countries and
its expertise in designing reform programs encouraging both foreign direct and local
investments (d) its proven catalytic role in mobilizing private investment in
telecommunications infrastructure and services in remote areas through injecting limited
seed money into universal access funds. The involvement of the International
Development Agency (IDA) provided a renewed confidence in GoM's commitment to
establish a viable framework for sector reforms and enforce the legal regulations
necessary to bring about benefit for the country's overall development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8. The project objective, as spelled out in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was to
improve access to and quality of efficient and affordable communications services by
creating an enabling environment for competition and private participation in key sectors
deemed critical to facilitate national and regional market integration, i.e.,
telecommunications, postal and air transport infrastructure and services.2 It is important
to highlight that improved access through increased geographic service coverage and
lower prices were the main objectives of the project, with the enabling environment and
private sector participation being the means to it. This was reflected in the main
indicators chosen to measure the impact of the project.

9. Based on the project logical framework (logframe), the project development Key
Performance Indicators (KPI) included:

(i) Telecommunications and Post:
· Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile) to at least double from 0.8 (2000) to 1.6
     lines per 100 inhabitants by 2006 as increased competition and new licensing regime
     were expected to accelerate network build-out;
· Telephone density in rural areas to double from 0.012 lines per inhabitants (2000) to
     at least 0.024; number of pay phones and other community access points (cybercafés,
     telecenters) to communications services to increase once the rural and universal
     access strategy developed under the project is implemented;
· International tariffs, mobile tariffs, cost of leased lines and internet access costs to
     decrease to regional standards by 2006 as competition increases throughout the
     sector.

(ii) Air Transport:


2
  In the Credit Agreement, the objective of the Project is defined as follows: "to assist the Borrower in: (i)
reforming and restructuring its telecommunication, postal and air transport sectors to attract private
management, know-how and capital; (ii) developing an institutional and regulatory framework designed to
promote competition and private investment in the telecommunication, postal and air transport sectors; and
(iii) develop a strategy for increasing access to communication services in rural areas."


                                                                                                             3
·   Passenger and air freight traffic volume to increase in line with average regional
    SADC growth rates by 2006;
·   Airport services at Maputo International Airport (MIA) to improve through a
    reduction in airport fees in line with average aeronautical fees in competing regional
    airports and an increase in the number of connections at least equal to that of average
    regional connection increase by 2006;
·   Cost of international and domestic airline tickets to be reduced in line with published
    economy and charter fares fro competing destinations and similar distances (such
    Johannesburg/Mauritius) by 2006;
·   Freight costs to be reduced in line with regional competing destinations by 2006.

10. Overall the PDO focused on outcomes for which the project could reasonably be held
accountable. The objectives were clear, realistic and meaningful for the country however
the PKI were somewhat loosely defined with no quantitative baseline or target indicators.

1.3 Revised Key Indicators and Justifications

11. The result framework was adjusted to reflect the latest World Bank guidelines and
improve the quality of the indicators. The Government and Bank team tried to monitor
the original results framework throughout the project life, but it became apparent that the
ability to collect and track indicators on the government side was limited. Hence, during
the third extension of closing date of the project in early 2008, the team suggested
revising the result framework, for the remaining life of the project, and mostly for
purposes of the ICR. This revision was aiming at reconciling the differences between the
PAD and the Project's Development Credit Agreement (DCA), reflecting the latest
format adopted by the Bank for reporting results (Table 1), and selecting indicators that
the government could possibly collect and available from international organizations
sources (International Telecommunication Union -ITU-, International Air Transport
Association -IACA-/International Civil Aviation Organization -ICAO-).

12. The original results framework documented in the DCA was largely focused on
output monitoring and not aligned with the PAD's logical framework (logframe) used as
a standard results monitoring format in 2001. Implemented revisions included: (a)
transforming the logframe into a Results Framework (RF), (b) selecting only outcome
and intermediate results indicators originally proposed in the logframe for the use in the
RF; (c) dropping two indicators measuring change in price of airline tickets; (d) dropping
indicators for air freight traffic, (e) adding an indicator at the PDO level measuring
increase in air traffic by change in number of air transport passengers.

13. There were four main justifications for the revisions: (a) the logframe was no longer
used by the Association for results monitoring, therefore the current format of Results
Framework was adopted; (b) the logframe consisted of a mix of outcomes/results and
large number of progress monitoring outputs; (c) the indicators measuring change in price
of airline tickets and air freight had not been monitored by the client during the last five
years of implementation (in addition, given the fluidity and confidentiality of airline
pricing and measurement of freight traffic, historic data is not available); and (d) the

                                                                                          4
project did not envision any major investment into improvements of freight traffic,
making the intermediary indicator measuring increase in freight traffic useless.

Table 1: Updated results framework (March 2008)
PDO Outcomes ­ Logframe (2002-              Outcome Indicators (2008-2009) ­ Results Framework
2008)
Improved telecommunication services         Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile) to double from 0.8
(fixed, mobile and internet)                (2000) to 1.6 lines (2006) per 100 inhabitants - measured in # of
                                            subscribers per 100 inhabitants

                                            Change in number of internet users per 1000 people

Improved passenger air transportation Change in annual average number of air transport passengers
Intermediate Outcomes                 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component 1: Telecommunications and postal sector reform
Improved telephone density in rural   % of rural population covered by GSM
areas

Improved access to pay phones               Change in number of public payphones

Reduction in international and local    (a) Cellular: cost of local 3 mn call (US$, off peak)
mobile tariffs, cost of leased lines, and
                                        (b) Fixed: change in price basket for residential
internet access costs                   (c) International: cost of 3 minute call to US in US$
                                        (d) Internet: price basket for Internet (US$ per month)
Component 2: Air transport sector reform
Improved airport services at MIA        Annual airport tariff /fees
through a reduction in airport fees in
line with regional average aeronautical
fees in competing airports

Improved number of connections              Annual number of domestic and international origins/destinations
                                            Annual average of number of seats available weekly (capacity)

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

14. The project was designed to target the population as a whole in Mozambique by
increasing the availability and affordability of traditional and modern
telecommunications, postal and air transport services.

15. Businesses, especially small and medium enterprises, were to benefit from lower
costs and a greater variety of value added services. A modern telecommunication
framework encouraging market innovations and competition was meant to make
Mozambique more attractive to foreign investors. For residential consumers, expanding
and improving telecommunications and postal services would help reduce the waiting
time to be connected and reduce information isolation for the population living in remote
and rural areas.

16. In the air transport sector, the expected benefits were the improved efficiency of
transport services, with direct impact on tourism related and business services. The
benefits of improved access, competitive rates and modernization of airport infrastructure
in the development corridor were expected to boost tourism and national/regional trade,

                                                                                                            5
which in turn were expected to encourage the entry of small local providers of tourism
related services, creating jobs, trade and market opportunities for agribusinesses.

1.5 Project Components

17. The project had three main components, as follows:

Component 1: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform (US$9.70 million)

1.1: Development of telecommunication policy, strengthening policy capacity and
awarding two new cellular licenses to private operators (US$0.9 million)
1.2: Preparation of a comprehensive telecommunications and postal legal and regulatory
framework including strengthening of INCM (US$3.4 million)
1.3: Privatization of TDM (US$1.2 million)
1.4: Strategy for market based universal access including establishment of a universal
service fund and provision of seed money for rural operations (US$3.5 million)
1.5: Information and communications technology enabling legislation (US$0.5 million)
1.6: Development of postal sector policy and modernization plan (US$0.2 million)

Component 2: Air transport reform (US$5.5 million)

2.1: Development of air transport policy and regulatory framework, and air transport
policy unit strengthening (US$0.6 million)
2.2: Strengthening of INAC regulatory capacity (US$3.3 million)
2.3: Restructuring and private participation scheme of LAM (US$1.0 million)
2.4: Airport concession (US$0.6 million)

Component 3: Project management and implementation (US$0.2)

3.1: Strengthening project management, procurement and financial management capacity,
including project audit
3.2: Communications campaign, information and dissemination.

1.6 Other significant changes

18. The project went through three extensions in April 2006 (for 18-months), in October
2007 (for 5 months) and in March 2008 (for 13-months), and two disbursement category
reallocations. While the first extension was foreseen as early as the mid-term review of
the project (May 2007) and was justified by a number of delays experienced in several
components of the project, the second and third extensions were mostly aimed at
allowing the telecommunication and internet rural access component (US$ 3.5 million),
and the air transport GNSS to be completed (US$ 0.6 million)3. The funds reallocations


3
 The GNSS equipment was not in the original design of the project; it was introduced at a later stage,
partly as a consequence of the post-9/11 emphasis on air transport security and safety.


                                                                                                         6
resulted in the changes in Table 2, showing that unallocated funds were mostly shifted to
Consultants' services. The balance between components did not vary significantly
throughout the life of the project.

Table 2: Reallocations (October 2007, December 2008)
   SDR equivalent            Original allocation   Reallocation 2007      Reallocation 2008
Goods                            3,750,000            4,900,000              3,800,000

Consultants' services and        5,300,000             6,000,000             7,100,000
training, including audits

Operating costs                   200,000              240,000                240,000

Refinancing of project            950,000              460,000                460,000
preparation advance

Unallocated                      1,400,000                0                      0

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19. Project preparation was swift and characterized by strong Government's commitment
to reform. The project identification took place in October 2000, followed by the pre-
appraisal in February 2001 and appraisal in July 2001.The project was effective in June
2002 and by then, four technical assistances had been identified under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) to prepare a telecommunication policy, an air transport policy,
the second mobile license tender, and an environment pre-audit.

20. The background analysis was sound. Both sectors (telecommunication and post, and
air transport) suffered from limited development by international as well as regional
standards, low penetration in telecom, low level of traffic volume for air transport. In
both sectors, quality of service was low and prices were relatively high.

21. The project design was traditional for the telecommunication sector. The
telecommunication component covered sector liberalization, regulatory capacity building,
and divestiture/privatization of incumbent, and was a relatively standard package of
assistance. At the time, the WB was implementing successfully several other similar
projects in the telecom sector (Organization of Eastern Caribbean States -OECS-,
Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, Mauritania, Malawi, and Algeria) and was in a good
position to advise GoM on similar reforms. As in other World Bank projects, the
telecommunication component covered two additional sub-components (i) information
and communications technology enabling legislation (e-legislation), and (ii) postal sector
policy and modernization plan. Those two small subcomponents were added to meet the
Government's request, with a view to help complete their policy definition.

22. In a more unusual way, the project scope covered the air transport sector. This can
be explained by the fact that both sectors were under the same line ministry, the Ministry

                                                                                           7
of Transport and Communication (MTC). As described in the background analysis the
needs for reform in the air transport sector were similar to those in the telecommunication
sector, and the air transport component was designed in a similar way as the
telecommunication component (with subcomponents on policy, regulation, privatization
of the incumbent airline company). The Maputo airport concession was an ambitious
objective in a country like Mozambique at the time of project preparation, however both
the privatization of LAM and the concession of Maputo international airport were
perceived as feasible.

23. Overall the project components were well designed and oriented towards achieving
the project objectives.

24. In terms of project institutional design, MTC was the only executing agency, with five
implementing agencies (TDM, CDM, INCM, LAM and Instituto Nacional de Aviação
Civil -INAC- later called Instituto de Aviação Civil de Moçambique -IACM-; and later
on Unidade Tecnica de Implementaçaõ da Politica de Informatica -UTICT- got involved
for the e-legislation activity). There was no provision made for a project steering
committee. At the time, this organization seemed sound, provided the executing agency
and project implementation unit would be adequately staffed with qualified and
experienced staff.

25. The government's    commitment was strong. For the telecommunication and air
transport sectors, the government's commitment to initiate structural reforms and allow
for more private sector participation in an enhanced regulated environment, seemed
strong. It was illustrated by the new policies adopted swiftly during project preparation.
At the start of project preparation the role played by the Economic Management and
Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) budget support also helped to sustain momentum for
these policy reforms. MTC had also initiated the privatization ofthe railway public
company4, demonstrating that the government was moving ahead with reforms in the
infrastructure sector.

26. The assessment of risks and mitigation actions were adequate. With regard to the
three risks identified as high (weak regulators constrained by political or political
pressure, weak interest from private investors, vested local interest slowing down the
privatization process or its transparency), the team defined and implemented adequate
mitigation actions, with heavy regulators' capacity building programs, international
advertised tenders and sector consultations to address investors' queries. The
government's commitment to reform was strong and perceived as a "modest risk". The
mitigation actions, while adequate (clear regulatory framework, international tender
following World Bank procurement guidelines for new private operators), however,
proved to be insufficient to maintain the reform momentum throughout the project's life,
once a new Minister less committed to reform and private sector participation came to
office.
4
  As it turned out, privatization of rail activities did not occur until 2005 for the most part, and to-date, only
4 out 23 lines have been privatized.


                                                                                                                8
2.2 Implementation

Key achievements

27. During its 7.5 years5, the project achieved important and sustainable results:

       a. The project supported the award of the second telecommunication mobile license
          to Vodacom in 2002. Competition gave a major boost to the sector, causing a
          rapid acceleration in the take up of services (market penetration jumped from less
          than 1% in 2000 to over 20% in 2008) and a drop in prices of 75%6. The
          introduction of competition triggered a major investment effort7 and strategic
          repositioning of mCel as well as TDM to be able to respond to a changing market
          reality. After 6 years of operations, Vodacom was holding about 30% of market
          share in June 2009.

       b. New sector policies were adopted for the telecommunication, postal and air
          transport sectors; they allowed increased private sector participation and led to
          sector restructuring and growth in telecommunication, and one new entrant in the
          domestic air transport industry8.

       c. New legal and regulatory frameworks were adopted and started to be
          implemented in the telecommunication and the air transport sectors. The project
          assisted government in the preparation of a new Telecommunications Law,
          adopted in 2004, and a Civil Aviation Law, adopted in 2009. The Postal law has
          also been recently completed, and its adoption is forthcoming. The project also
          helped the government prepare air safety regulations, and regulations for airport
          and aerodrome certification. These new regulations allow for a level playing field
          and increased customer protection through better service quality oversight by the
          regulatory institutions whose capacities have also been reinforced through the
          project.

       d. Capacity building in the new regulatory agencies (INCM and IACM), including
          training, equipment with IT network, specialized equipment and technical
          assistance, interconnection study for INCM, Global Navigation Satellite System
          approaches -GNSS- for IACM), have contributed towards strengthening their
          effectiveness and their credibility vis-à-vis sectors' stakeholders.



5
 The Development Credit Agreement was signed in December 2001, the project was effective in June
2002 and closed in June 2009.

6
    Cost of local 3mn call in US$ during peak.

7
    US$ 100 million in TDM's backbone.

8
    Air Corridor has since terminated its operations;

                                                                                                   9
      e.    A new spectrum management equipement was acquired (one station in Maputo
           and two mobile stations outside Maputo). It has allowed a better allocation of the
           spectrum, control of bandwidth usage, and dispute resolution in case of users
           complaints.

      f. Internet rural universal access strategy and pilots were successfully implemented
         in 4 districts.

      g. The project supported the gradual liberalization of air services between Maputo
         and Johannesburg.The opening up of the domestic market where a second carrier
         (Air Corridor) was allowed to compete with the LAM, translated into an increase
         of domestic traffic.

      h. RNAV (Area Navigation)/GNSS equipment (non precision approaches) for eight
         airports9 has increased security and safety in regional airports. These approaches
         have been published in the relevant publications. ICAO will determine early next
         year whether MIA meet international safety and security standards.

      i. Project's contribution to update the airport infrastructure has helped the
         Government to seek alternative funding and favored a phased approach for private
         sector participation.

Four main shortcomings

28. While the project has contributed significantly to the communications sectors, four
main shortcomings characterize project implementation, when compared to the original
project components:

      a. The privatization of the telecommunication incumbent and of the air transport
         company did not happen as originally planned: following a change in policy after
         the 2004 presidential elections, the government decided to cancel plans to
         privatize TDM and LAM.

      b. While the project had foreseen launching a third mobile license, this license was
         not awarded as the market conditions were considered deterring. Government is
         now advancing to launch the tender for a third mobile operator. Implementation
         of this activity is being supported through a follow-up operation (the Mozambique
         eGovernment and Communications Infrastructure Project) recently approved in
         July 2009.

      c. The Maputo International Airport concession failed. After entering negotiations
         with Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA) that had been selected after a
         competitive tender process, the government and Bank teams concluded that the
         proposed and negotiated concession terms were not in the best interest of
         government at that time, and the negotiations for a concession to ACSA were
9
    Pemba, Lichinga, Tete, Quelimane, Vilanculos, Inhambane, Nampula, and Chimoio

                                                                                           10
        terminated. The government instead conducted a study evaluating financing
        options for the airport infrastructure system in Mozambique, covering Maputo
        airport along side with other provincial airports. The objective was to ensure
        understand the financial capacity of the airport infrastructure to finance operations
        on a sustainable basis, and to evaluate the needs for external capital to finance
        improvements and expansions. The findings of the study initially received limited
        attention. Nevertheless, the findings of the study subsequently served as input for
        the preparation of the government's transport strategy review, and for medium
        and long-term financial planning of the airport infrastructure system

     d. The telephony component of the universal access strategy was unsuccessfully
        tendered. A first tender was organized in February 2007 and failed. There were
        several reasons invoked for the low turn-out, ranging from the 1-year delay in
        launching the tender (triggered by the delay in the adoption of the universal
        access policy by the government and the enactment of the universal access
        decree), to company specific reasons, to pilot design issues, bidding documents
        requirements, and sector lack of effective competition (there were only two
        potential bidders for the telephony component, while TDM, the third potential
        candidate, was unlikely to be interested in deploying fixed technology in remote
        areas). The lack of competitively priced backbone access in particular has
        constituted a severe barrier for operators. A second tender was organized in
        October 2007 after in-depth consultation with the operators to redesign the
        bidding documents. It was successful on the internet component, but failed again
        for the telephony one. Again, the lack of sector competition together with the
        changing policy environment and government policy are the main identified
        factors of this outcome. Following this partial failure, the project financed a study
        to look at the options for Universal Access going forward. The recommendation
        of this study will be used during the recently approved Mozambique
        eGovernment and Communications Infrastructure Project (MEGCIP) project for
        the setup of up to 20 Community Multimedia Centers (CMCs) throughout the
        country.

29. After 2005 when the Government policy took a different course and the privatization
of TDM, LAM and MIA were set on the side, the Team prepared successive extensions
and credit reallocation in an effort to implement as fully and efficiently as possible the
project to reach the objectives of improved access to and quality of efficient and
affordable communications services. However the possibility of a formal project
restructuring was not brought up by the Team or the Government.

Key implementation factors

30. The political commitment lessened with time. During the project, three ministers
succeeded at the head of MTC10. The successes under this project were mainly initiated
in the earlier phase of project implementation when the Minister was a determined

10
  Minister Tomaz Salomao until 2005, Minister Antonio Munguambe until 2008, and Minister Paulo
Zucula until today.

                                                                                                 11
champion of reform. The project experienced a tangible change in 2005 with a new
minister, following the 2004 presidential election, which resulted in a perceived less
liberal economic policy, with direct impact on project implementation. This is
particularly illustrated by the changes in government's intentions with regard to the
privatization of TDM and LAM, and more broadly in its position with regard to private
sector participation as a strategic input to sector development. With lessened political
commitment to a private participation driven agenda, project implementation efficiency
decreased and delays increased with time11.

31. The implementation schedule was overly optimistic. For instance the new telecom law
was enacted in June 2004, whereas it was initially planned for March 2002; the universal
access telecom strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2006, one
year after the initial plan. In addition, the implementing agencies were slow in providing
inputs to UGPTC. It is possible that at this time, had there been a Project Steering
Committee (PSC) headed by the minister to oversee project implementation and give
incentives to the implementation agencies, project implementation may have experienced
a more sustained pace as it would have brought the successive ministers to regularly and
personnally be involved in the oversight of the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32. While the PDO determined in the PAD (see 1.2)12 was illustrating adequately what
the project was aiming at achieving, the indicators selected in the PAD, as well as those
in the ISR, did not provide quantitative baseline and target indicators against which
progress towards objectives could be easily assessed. This triggered a revision of the
result framework, as explained in section 1.3 above.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33. Procurement and financial management were generally adequate during the 7.5 years
of the CSRP implementation. One major issue was that UGPTC did not submit financial
management reports (FMR) throughout most of the project life, despite numerous
reminders, and the presence of a Bank FMS in the field to follow up. However, the


11
  Implementation efficiency was relatively high in the first two years of the project, benefiting from strong
political commitment and good participatory processes. key actions had been taken prior to project
negotiations, partly through a PPIAF grant which funded a first set of draft strategies and through the
project preparation facility (PPF) which funded some telecommunication and air transport policy advice
(which allowed the Government to finalize its letters of sector policy that were included in the PAD) and
the preparation of the 2nd mobile license tender process. This momentum faded with the change of
government that took place in 2005 after the 2004 general election.

12
   The project objective was to improve access to and quality of efficient and affordable communications
services by creating an enabling environment for competition and private participation in key sectors
deemed critical to facilitate national and regional market integration, i.e., telecommunications, postal and
air transport infrastructure and services


                                                                                                           12
annual audits of the project's financial accounts showed adequate management of funds.
At the end of the project, the PIU provided the cumulative FMRs.

34. .With regards to safeguards, an environmental pre-audit had been prepared by the
government in 2001. It was the only safeguard policy that applied to the project. It
provided three sets of provisions relative to the divestiture of TDM, MIA and LAM.
These divestitures did not occur and no specific safeguard issues aroused during the
project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

35. Telecommunications: Sector work supported through the project is being
complemented with activities to be financed through a follow-up project. The follow-up
project, the MEGCIP, is part of the Regional Communications Infrastructure Program
(RCIP). RCIP has been developed in the region to complement private sector
investments that have, for the first time ever, brought submarine fiber cables to the East
coast of Africa13, with potential to reduce communication costs by a factor of 8-10 times.
In Mozambique, MEGCIP will continue the work developed under CSRP to support the
launch of a third mobile operator, continuing support to the regulator, and follow-up to
the implementation of a rural access strategy through the setup of CMCs as mentioned
earlier.

36. Recognizing that limited institutional capacity has been a bottleneck during CSRP,
the new project is using a different institutional setup and counterpart ministry, and
providing a number of experts to work with the agencies and resources for the project
management unit, for the duration of the project.

37. Air transport: A new transport strategy was approved by the government in the spring
of 2009, demonstrating the government's commitment to continue to reform this sector.
In the short term, IACM is preparing for the ICAO during their Universal Safety
Oversight Audit, which is planned for January 2010. The previous audit dates back 2001,
but IACM is confident that with the new aviation code, revised safety regulations, the
enhanced capacity for regulatory oversight, and with new infrastructure, such as the
GNSS system in place, the audit will be successful. Ongoing capacity building at IACM
remains a major concern. The government, recognizing that that IACM was suffering
from limited resources, agreed last March to channel 9.5% of the air navigation services
fees to IACM in order to allow it to hire, train and retain new professionals. However,
one of the prime challenges in most developing countries is the large spread between
public sector salaries with the private sector, which is very evidently for flying personnel
(e.g. flight operations inspector versus an airline pilot).

3. Assessment of Outcomes


13
  The SEACOM submarine cable was connected to Mozambique shoreline in June 2009, and the EASSy
submarine cable is expected to be connected to Mozambique by July 2010.


                                                                                             13
                                                                                 14
38. The CSRP has allowed the telecommunication sector to take a "giant step" forward.
Sector liberalization, update of the legal and regulatory framework, and regulatory
capacity building have allowed a strong and lasting development in the
telecommunications sector. In the air transport sector, the project has contributed to set in
place the building blocks of a better enabling environment, and an improved security and
safety framework.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39. The introduction of competition financed under this project proved to be the most
decisive enabler for the telecommunication sector development. The sector liberalization
had a significant and sustainable impact on sector growth on the mobile segment:

           a. The sharp increase of penetration (going from 0.8% in 2000 to 20.6% (in
              2008) places Mozambique in the group of best reform performers (Annex 2).
           b. The market structure shows that competition was effectively introduced:
              Vodacom today holds about 30% of market share, and a third mobile license
              is now planned to be awarded in the coming months.
           c. Another important element of competition introduction is the fast
              restructuring of TDM and its ability to face its new liberalized environment by
              investing in its network, diversifying its range of products and services, and
              attempting to improve its quality of services.
           d. The drop in prices has also been tangible (cost of local call, mobile, dropped
              by 75% between 2002 and 2008) and the services are now reaching a lower
              income population (Vodacom's average revenue per user -ARPU- dropped by
              67% between 2003 and today.

40. The increase in coverage has also been significant (from 3% of the population at
project start to 44% today).

41. Privatization is a key element of any liberalization program to fully leverage private
sector investment. The delayed privatization of TDM may have slowed down but has not
prevented tangible sector improvements, adoption of new services, and increasing
availability, quality and affordability for citizens. The government has reiterated
informally its intention to privatize TDM (although no such intentions have been
officially announced), which will be eased by a better enabling environment. This would
also need to be accompanied by a further wave of liberalization, especially for the use of
the national backbone currently owned and operated on a monopoly basis by TDM ­ this
will be key if Mozambique wants to have lower high-speed Internet access and leverage
the forthcoming competition in international submarine cable capacity made possible by
the arrival of both SEACOM and EASSY submarine cables.



14
     As praised by H.E. Minister Zucula during the July 2009 ICR mission.

                                                                                          14
42. On the air transport component, the WB project contributed in increasing domestic
traffic through the introduction of competition and in improving the regulatory, oversight
of the sector, which focuses on safety and security. The original design of the component
was quite different, and had an even wider, less focused design. However, after the events
of September 11, 2001, the international standards for security oversight in air
transportation have been significantly strengthened by ICAO. The same process
happened with improving and tightening operational safety standards of the sector, which
even led to the decision to release the results of ICAO safety audits to the public. As a
consequence of these developments during the course of the project, the project
component was redesigned to address specifically the necessary elements to comply with
tightened regulatory oversight responsibilities of the government.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43. As mentioned above, and for purposes of the ICR, the project performance is assessed
based on a revised Results Framework approved in 2008. Table 4 shows that the project
has mostly achieved or surpassed its objectives. In particular, on the telecom and internet
PDO indicators, the significant increase in penetration can largely be attributed to the
project, through the award of the second mobile license and the internet pilot for rural
access. On the air transport PDO indicator, the project contributed indirectly to the
increase of passenger traffics, through improved operational safety standards, which are a
basic requirement to maintain and develop international air services. In addition, the
continuous policy dialogue with the government on the necessity of liberalizing both, the
domestic as well as the international market, contributed to the governments gradual
liberalization of air services between Maputo and Johannesburg, and the opening up of
the domestic market where a second carrier was allowed to compete with the state owned
operator.

44. The original monitoring and evaluating framework (PAD) had only two quantitative
targets, making the project implementation evaluation virtually impossible. The new
result framework adopted in 2008 does not include targets given the short time horizon
before project end. Overall telecommunication and internet penetrations reached
respectively 20.6% and 16.0 per 1000, substantially surpassing the original target (Table
4). The increase in the number of passengers was +50% over this period. While this level
of increase is below the GDP growth over this time period (87%), it compares very
favorably to international references, and can largely be attributed to liberalizing traffic
with South Africa, and the domestic market.

Table 4: Achievement of PDOs
                                           Baseline*        Targets**       Results (2008)
PDO indicators:
· Overall telephone density            1.37              1.6% (2006)     20.6% (2008)
· Change in number of internet users   1.64 per 1000                     16.0 per 1000 (2008)
· Change in number of transport        394,671                           589,579 (2006)
   passengers

Intermediate outcome indicators:
· % of rural population covered by     2.7%                              44.0% (2007)

                                                                                             15
       GSM
·      Change in number of public                 3,105                              4,239 (2006)
       payphones
·      (a) Cell: cost of local 3mn call in US$    (a) 0.33                            (a) 0.08 (2007)
       during peak; (b) Fixed: change in price    (b) 14.6                            (b) 13.1 (2007)
       basket for residential fixed line; (c)     (c) 6.21                            (c) 0.14 (2007)
       International: cost of 3mn call to US in   (d) na                             (d) 29 (2007)
       US$; (d) Internet: price basked
       USmonth
·      Annual airport tariff / fees
                                                  PAX (1): 5/10/20                   PAX: 5/10/20 (2006)
·      Annual number of (a) domestic and          A/C (2):15.5                       A/C:15.5 (2006)
       (b) international origins/destinations     (a) 6.75                           (a) 10 (2006)
                                                  (b) 6                              (b) 8.25 (2006)
·    Annual average of number of seats
     available weekly (capacity)               20,653                                  44,525
* as defined in March 2008, at time of third extension; ** original objectives as determined in the PAD
(1) PAX: Passenger fees domestic / regional / international in US$; (2) A/C: aircraft average landing fee
per ton in US$

45. Some of the data for 2008 were not available at the time of the ICR preparation (mid
to end of 2009). After the project closed in June 2009, the UGPTC was dismantled and it
became impossible to seek updated data. However the follow-up project (MEGCIP) will
contribute to reinforce the statistics and data collection system through its support to the
regulator.

3.3 Efficiency

46. At the time of project appraisal, and because of the size and the nature of the project,
a detailed economic analysis was deemed unnecessary. In the PAD, a short, qualitative
estimate of costs and benefits shows that the project would have indirect results on cost
savings, additional income from net job creation, increased income through reduced
transaction costs for the rest of the economy, and consumer surplus. The fiscal impact
was originally meant to be significant with two privatizations, the award of two mobile
licenses, and a concession contract.

47. In retrospect, the liberalization of the sector and the award of the second mobile
license to Vodacom were arguably the most efficient investment through the project.
Through limited funding, the government unleashed sector growth and accessibility of
services. At the same time, it also raised revenue of US$ 15 million through the license
award to Vodacom, a sizable revenue for the government, almost equivalent to the size of
the project as a whole.15

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating




15
     No data available concerning the generation of new jobs.


                                                                                                            16
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

48. Overall, the outcome rating is moderately satisfactory. Introducing competition and
private sector participation in the telecommunication and air transport sectors, together
with updating the legal framework and strengthening the regulatory authorities, was a
highly relevant and successful strategy, especially in the telecom sector. The project
contributed to substantial and sustainable changes in the telecommunication sector
structure both on the supply and the demand side, and the PDO was largely met: overall
telephone density grew from 0.8% to 20.6% over the duration of the project while the
cost of calls on cellular phones was divided by four, both outcomes of the partial
liberalization financed under the project. The air transport component was overall less
successful and its impact on the sector less tangible (although the improvement of airport
safety is a remarkable and sustainable result). Also, a number of the components
originally identified in the project scope were not successful (privatization of TDM and
LAM, MIA concession, telecom universal access pilot only partially implemented). They
justify a reduced rating for project outcome to Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts: Institutional Change and
Strengthening

49. From an institutional standpoint, an important long-term impact of the project is the
consolidation of INCM and IACM as regulators in their respective sectors. Both
regulators had recently been established at the project's inception, and large amounts of
the credit were dedicated to training, capacity building, technical assistance and
investments. As a result, INCM and IACM have covered a lot of ground since 2002 ­
despite still being perceived by some stakeholders as young, with limited influence and
still susceptible of political and industry capture. The new telecommunication project
(part the RCIP program) covers further capacity building for INCM so that its
intervention will continue to shape the sector's structure and development in the future.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

50. The pro-competitive environment in the telecommunication sector introduced through
the project is here to stay. The reforms will not be reversed and the changes introduced
by the project are structural and will bear impact on the long-run. A sound regulatory
environment is in place to allow technology innovation to continue to drive service
diversification and improved quality of service, and bring costs down. TDM's financial
situation is more robust today than it was at the outset of the project, and TDM paid
dividend in both 2007 and 2008. There are still some improvements to be achieved: some
enabling environment bottlenecks (e.g. price of backbone, taxation of handsets) have
been identified and will be addressed under the follow-up project, MEGCIP.




                                                                                            17
51. In the air transport, the newly approved Civil Aviation Law will also set irreversible
changes in the sector, and the project-supported activities aimed at increasing capacity of
IACM will result in sustainable improvements in safety and security in this sector.
In the air transport sector, the newly adopted Civil Aviation Code has set irreversible
international standards in the sector, and the project-supported activities aimed at
increasing capacity of IACM resulted in sustainable improvements in safety and security
in this sector. Finally, the GNSS approaches are permanent installations, which benefit
from the fact that the global satellite system on which they depend are maintained by the
international community, and are therefore providing ongoing operational safety for the
aviation sector in Mozambique.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

52. This project was the result of a strong demand by the government that the WB
addressed swiftly and efficiently. Although the privatization of TDM and LAM was not
implemented, the project design at the time of its preparation can be considered as sound.
In 2000, after a decade of numerous successful privatization transactions worldwide with
resulting benefits, the privatization of telecommunication public operators was a standard
milestone in any sectoral reform. In the air transport sector, there was also a worldwide
orientation towards airlines privatization. In addition to this first aspect, as reflected in
the aide-memoires, the Government at the time seemed genuinely committed to improve
access and quality through the introduction of competition and private sector
participation in the telecommunication and in the air transport sectors. The relevant line
Minister stood as a strong and credible reform champion of all aspects of the program
design. Under those conditions, the project design had to include privatization and
concession transactions.

53. The timeline was overly optimistic, and in retrospect, the monitoring and evaluating
framework was weak. But at the time ­that is before the Bank put a greater effort into the
monitoring and evaluation aspect of project implementation, the logframe was regarded
as adequate, as well as the implementation arrangements.

54. Overall given the conditions that prevailed in 2000 in Mozambique, the project
design can be considered as satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

55. Frequency of supervision (on average two formal supervision missions per year, and
TTL presence in the field in the final part of the project) was adequate. Progress of
project implementation, and discussions with government were documented through
                                                                                          18
comprehensive and high quality aide memoires. ISRs were filed on time, and included
relevant information, but quality of the M&E could have been improved. An analysis of
project documentation shows that the World Bank team responded adequately to project
delays and changes in orientation. It did so by demonstrating adaptability, respecting the
new government's orientations as much as they were clearly spelled out, and proposing
new activities fitting best those orientations while keeping consistency with project
intended outcomes16. The two smaller components of the project (postal and e-
legislation) were given good attention: the postal component was to limited in scope to
ignite substantial and sustainable changes, however the team responded to the most
urgent needs and allowed the procurement of a much needed management and
information system; the e-legislation component was the bridge that led to the preparation
of the follow-up project, MEGCIP. Interactions with the UGPTC and the implementing
agencies were numerous and trustful, and the three changes of WB TTLs occurred
seamlessly thanks to efficient handovers and reliable project documents filing.

56. Despite this thorough supervision by the WB team, some key features of the project
were not implemented and the project had to be extended three times. Shouldn't the WB
management have been more pro-active and call for an early project termination or a
project restructuring?

57. There are three main reasons why such course was not taken. Firstly, in the
Mozambique portfolio, the CSRP was not the only project experiencing delays and
implementation hurdles. In fact most other infrastructure projects were performing
significantly more poorly. It was considered that further attempt to push the Government
would not yield results. Secondly, project targets in telecommunication were exceeded
(improved access, more affordable services, better quality of service, etc.), and the GNSS
activity in the air transport component needed time to be fully implemented and bring the
full benefits of international standard safety to MIA and 7 regional airports. The
successive extensions allowed more time to complete this activity. Thirdly as a way to
increase supervision efficiency, the WB decided to locate the task team leader in the field
in order to strengthen the supervision framework.

58. In view of the above, the WB supervision can be rated satisfactory as it addressed
adequately the unpredictable project hurdles for a result that not only exceeds most of
project objectives but also brought sustainable changes in those sectors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

59. Given the above, over the 7.5 years of project preparation and implementation, the
WB performance is considered overall as satisfactory.



16
     For example: i.e. funding a study on alternative scenarios for MIA when the concession failed.


                                                                                                      19
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

60. As reflected in the aide memoires, timeliness, record-keeping, adherence to financial
management and procurement procedures were a problem during the project
implementation. Performance by Government and the project implementation unit (PIU)
was however generally adequate. The change in government in 2004-2005 and
consequent changes in government policy had a strong impact on the pace and the
orientations of the project implementation. While this is legitimate as a new government
comes into power, project implementation suffered from the lack of clear communication
from the government on its intentions and plans, despite calls by the Bank team for
government guidance (e.g. on privatization, Universal Access etc).

61. The absence of a strong policy unit in MTC was also a handicap for the
implementation of a project of this nature, as a large part of the assistance related to
policy advice and legal, regulatory and institutional design, topics on which a policy unit
normally has a leading role, or at a minimum an active contribution to.

62. The UGPTC's capacity was assessed as limited early on, but the project was
mitigating this risk with an emphasis on hiring qualified staff. However the PIU suffered
from capacity limitation that notably impacted negatively the production of Financial
Management Reports (see earlier comment under 2.4).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

63. The pattern of project implementation (first three years effective, then a tangible slow
down) also characterizes the performance of the implementing agencies. INCM and
IACM were the main beneficiaries and their performance was impacted by changes in
management and board member nominations. MTC, LAM, TDM and CDM, the other
implementing agencies, benefited from smaller support. There have been delays in
project implementation, contribution to procurement processes, follow-up at the agency
level (eg. for terms of reference or contribution to evaluation committee), and lack of
collection of indicator data after 2007. Some of the agencies mention lack of coordination
and leadership and staff turnover as possible justifications for such delays.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

64. In light of the above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated moderately
satisfactory. After the first three years of the project led by a true reform champion,
political commitment faded and project implementation suffered as a direct consequence.


                                                                                         20
6. Lessons Learned

65. A number of lessons emerge from the project implementation experience. The
relevant lessons have been taken into account when designing the follow-up MEGCIP
project:

   a. Following a change of government, it is extremely important to reconfirm
      government's priorities and if needed restructure projects to reflect government's
      true intentions. The departure of a reform champion will necessarily impact
      project implementation, and possibly jeopardize sound project arrangements. The
      existence of a strong steering committee can in some cases contribute to ensure
      some continuity, especially when autonomous agencies are involved.

   b. When the implementation capacity of the borrower is limited, more
      effort/resources are needed to keep the project implementation unit and the
      implementing agencies actively involved and proactive: i.e. effort to encourage
      each implementing agency to have an empowered focal point in charge of project
      components, effort from the WB to keep those staff updated especially in case of
      high turnover. In a country that shows overall limited project implementation
      effectiveness, it is also important to define a realistic timeline for project
      implementation and/or scope of activities.

   c. In the matter of private sector participation, the best practice is to privatize the
      state-owned enterprises. This project proves that there are alternative roads and
      timelines to privatization, in the sense that TDM was restructured and is now in a
      better condition to attract a strategic partner. But that may entail opportunity costs
      related to delayed opening of essential backbone facilities and could prove costly
      to the sector by transforming TDM into a very strong private monopoly. In
      retrospect the project could have been restructured to pursue other options for
      TDM.

   d. Full development impact from liberalization of the sector, including privatization
      of the incumbent, can only be experienced when liberalization actions are
      comprehensive and timely. Introduction of competition in the mobile and internet
      market segments proved to be beneficial to customers in terms of lower prices and
      greater variety of service offerings. However growth in the overall ICT market
      spurred by even lower prices and higher quality remains severely constrained
      because essential transmission and backbone (international and domestic)
      facilities remain as monopoly priced services while mobile services continue to be
      provide within a duopoly structure.

   e. Three key factors are needed for a rural access component to be successful: a
      good strategy based on an accurate evaluation of the market components (supply
      and demand), the existence of the right balance of competition in the market and
      incentives mechanisms embedded in the tender process, and a swift
      implementation of the tender process so as to keep the investors committed.

                                                                                         21
    f. The two main lessons learned in the air transport sector concern the objectives of
       granting a concession of an airport, and privatizing a national carrier. The
       granting of a full concession for an entire airport needs to be carefully evaluated
       against expected traffic and operational income, and the obligation of the
       government to fund secondary airports with revenues of the concession. A gradual
       approach of private participation in airport infrastructure, where not the entire
       airport is given away for a decade of more, but where parts (e.g. car park,
       restaurants, duty free, or even a runway) are financed by the private sector, can
       often be a better solution, especially where traffic figures are low. The objective
       of privatizing air carriers in developing countries was also very common during
       the time the design of the project. However, there is no case in Africa during the
       past ten years of a successful air carrier privatization, and the string of failures
       increasingly serve to make the case that state-owned carriers should operate on a
       profitable basis or be liquidated. Nevertheless, the role of the Bank should be to
       support the government in improving operations of a given state-owned carrier,
       with the objective to facilitate international cooperation and /or participation (e.g.
       Kenya Airways with KLM). This gradual approach of improving operations also
       bears the key advantage for the Bank to monitor and evaluate the amount of
       public funding with is invested in the carriers operations. In addition to
       concessions and privatization, the lessons learned also concern the advantage to
       react swiftly to increased international pressure in the case of regulatory
       oversight, which in the case of this project led to improvements of the law and
       regulatory framework.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

66. See Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                                                          22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 1. TELECOMMUNICATION
AND POSTAL SECTOR                       9.7                 9.8            101%
REFORM
 2. AIR TRANSPORT SECTOR
                                        5.5                 5.7            104%
REFORM
 3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                        0.2                 1.3            656%
AND IMPLEMENTATION

           Total Baseline Cost         15.4                16.9
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        0.00                0.00
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00                0.00




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         0.50         1.3          270%
International Development
                                                 14.90       15.5         104%
Association (IDA)




                                                                                       23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform

1. This component was composed of six sub-components: (a) the development of a
telecommunication policy, strengthening policy capacity and awarding two new cellular
licenses to private operators, (b) the preparation of a comprehensive telecommunications
and postal legal and regulatory framework including strengthening of INCM, (c) the
privatization of TDM, (d) the strategy for market based universal access including
establishment of a universal service fund and provision of seed money for rural
operations, (e) the Information and communications technology enabling legislation, and
(f) the development of postal sector policy and modernization plan.
2. Most of this component was successfully implemented except for TDM privatization
and the telecommunication universal access pilot.
3. While the remarkable telecommunication sector growth in the 2000s cannot be fully
attributed to the Project (Table 1), the CSRP has had a major contribution to this
development.
Table 1 ­ Telecommunications indicators
 Project Outcome               Baseline   Y2R1     YR2         YR3     YR4      YR5            YR6    YR7
 Indicators                    2001       2002     2003        2004    2005     2006           2007   2008
 Overall telephone density       1.37      1.87    2.77        4.10    7.66    11.94           15.7   20.6
 Internet users/ 1000 people     1.64      2.68    4.36        7.10                8.93        9.35   16.0
 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
 Percent of rural population
                               2.7        7.6     17.7    21.8        23.7    25.1        44.0
 covered by GSM (%)
 Change in number of
                               3105       4041    6322    7042        6287    4239        ..
 public payphones
 (a) Cellular: cost of local 3
 minute call in US$ during     0.33       0.29    0.35    0.15        0.15    0.08        0.079
 off peak
 (b) Fixed: Change in price
                               14.6
 basket for residential fixed                                         17.6    13.1        13.9
                               (2000)
 line
 (c) international: cost of 3
                               6.21                                   1.17    0.14        0.35
 minute call to US in US$
 (d) Internet: Price basket
 for Internet in US $ per                         51      50          33      29          34.4
 month


4. The telephone density has exploded thanks to the introduction of competition in the
mobile segment from 0.8% (2000) to 20.6% (2008). While such a development is to be
expected when competition is introduced (Graph 1), it is worth noting that compared to
other African countries who have awarded one or two GSM licenses around the same
date (Graph 2) such as Ethiopia or Rwanda, Mozambique has experienced a relatively
higher penetration growth. In addition, competition has brought prices down by 75% for
a local 3 minutes cellular communication and by 94% for an international 3 minutes
communication.



                                                                                                         24
Graph 1: Introduction of competition leads to increase in penetration




Graph 2: Increase of mobile penetration between 2000 and 2008 ­ Ethiopia,
Mozambique, Rwanda




                                                                             M
                                                                             E
    S                                                                        R


    M
                  A

                       D



                                                                 M




                                      Y



5. The internet penetration growth has accelerated in the last year of the project to
reach 16 per 1000 in end 2008, a trend that is expected to be prolonged in the coming
years. The price basket for internet went down by 33%.

                                                                                        25
6. Rural access has also increased substantially (Table 1) in spite of the partial failure of
the strategy for market based universal access (only the internet portion of the universal
access tender was successfully awarded, while the telecom portion of it was
unsuccessfully tendered). There are discussions over the 44% penetration rate, a data
provided by the Project. The Regulator
7. Regulatory capacity building of INCM is an important output of the project. The
project funded a number of activities, a mix of training, technical assistance and
equipments which altogether provided a significant support to INCM and help it build
capacity and credibility vis-à-vis the sector players. By experience, such capacity
building programs take a long time before the regulator can actually regulate in a full
fledge and independent way. One of the most important equipment purchased through the
project is the spectrum equipment for INCM (US$ 3 million). Even if direct impact of
such a large investment is difficult to capture, improvement in spectrum allocation,
interferences resolution, fees collection, and communication controls at the borders
brought important benefits in terms of quality of spectrum allocation and management.

8. The postal sub-component had a limited scope. No sustainable impact was expected
from it (hence the project has no postal indicator). A new policy and draft laws were
prepared (the draft law will be submitted to the next parliamentary session in 2010, after
the general election). A corporate strategy was prepared for CDM, and one of the
recommendations, the acquisition of a management and information system and of
hardware equipment for Maputo post offices, was funded by the project. However these
activities were not sufficient to help CDM reach a sustainable improved level of
performance. The project closed and the future of CDM is uncertain: in spite of a fragile
financial situation (recurrent deficits, over staffing, under investment) it gets little
attention from the government. Contrary to TDM and LAM who have been able to
restructure their operations and invest in strategic infrastructure, it seems that CDM will
not have the opportunity to restructure.

9. The e-legislation sub-component was small but pivotal in the sequence of reform.
While it was a small component in the project, it brought UTICT on board who led the
drafting of the law and played as a catalyst for the preparation of the follow up project
(MEGCIP).

Component 2: Air transport reform (US$5.5 million)
10. This component was composed of four sub-components: (a) the development of air
transport policy and regulatory framework, and air transport policy unit strengthening, (b)
the strengthening of INAC regulatory capacity, (c) the restructuring and private
participation scheme of LAM, and (d) the airport concession.
Table 2 ­ Air transport indicators
     Project Outcome         Baseline   Y2R1       YR2       YR3       YR4       YR5      YR6    YR7
        Indicators            2001      2002       2003      2004      2005      2006     2007   2008
  Air transport passengers   394.671    418.669   427.605   458.179   534.171   589.579

 Component 2: Air transport sector reform



                                                                                                    26
                            PAX:       PAX:      PAX:      PAX:      PAX:      PAX:
                            5/10/20    5/10/20   5/10/20   5/10/20   5/10/20   5/10/20
 Annual Reduction in
 airport fees17
                            A/C:       A/C:      A/C:      A/C:      A/C:      A/C:
                            15.5       15.5      15.5      15.5      15.5      15.5
 (a) Nber of origins/
                            6.75                           7.75                           10         16
 destinations domestic
 (b) Nber of origins/
                            6                              7                              8.25      13.75
 destinations internat"
 Seats available weekly
                            20.653                         23.267                         27.967    21.783
 (capacity)



11. In the air transport sector, the restructuring of LAM had been identified early on as a
prerequisite to a successful privatization, but as the project was being implemented, this
restructuring that was supposed to start with a large retrenchment plan never really took
place. Instead, LAM who also experienced a number of managerial changes engaged into
smaller scale labor reduction (from 800 staff to 695 in 2009), cost reduction, and
investment in information technologies (i.e electronic ticketing). In parallel it engaged
into a fleet renewal (smaller crafts less expensive to operate and better adapted to
Mozambique needs) funded by commercial loans. LAM's strategy is now to concentrate
on its strength as a national and regional carrier (more point to point with less stopovers
and higher frequency) and prepares for the liberalization of the Johannesburg-Maputo
line planned in October 2009. After five years of deficit, LAM was profitable in 2006.
With regard to the IAM concession, the government entered a long negotiation with
ACSA that was officially aborted in 2007: the contract terms were considered not
advantageous enough, and the WB team agreed with the government's view. The project
provided funds for a study looking at various strategic options to access funding to insure
the long term sustainability of the airport system in Mozambique. However the
government eventually signed loans with Chinese commercial banks and Eximbank to
build a new airport in Maputo (for a total of US$ 73 millions). In parallel, the government
agreed with Danida to upgrade three regional airports (re-pavement, fencing, and visual
aids).

12. The new legal and regulatory frameworks for the telecommunication and the air
transport sectors have brought Mozambique at par with international best practice. The
project funded a number of activities, a mix of training, technical assistance and
equipments which altogether provided a significant support to those young organizations
and help them build capacity. By experience, such capacity building programs take a long
time before the regulator can actually regulate in a full fledge and independent way.
Overall the project allowed INCM and IACM to go up the learning curve faster than if
government funding had only been available.




17
   PAX: Passenger fees domestic / regional / international in USD / A/C: Aircraft average landing fee per
ton in USD


                                                                                                          27
13. Overall, the table of performance indicators in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) (Table 3) demonstrates that project implementation remained on line with the
original objectives set for the project, albeit some delays in some sub-components:

Table 3: Performance indicators (DCA, 2001)

              Project Components                 Target Dates                Actual Progress
Telecommunications and Postal Sector
Reforms
· Two mobile licenses awarded to private         June 30, 2002        One license awarded in
    operators                                                         Q4 2002 to Vodacom

·   Issuance of decrees on INCM statute and      September 30, 2001   Nov. 2001
    organization, interconnection and
    licensing
·   Submission for the approval by               September 30, 2001
    Parliament of an amendment to the
    current Telecommunications Law to give
    options to new mobile operators to use
    TDM international gateway or establish
    and operate their own international
    transmission networks and services
·   Submission for the approval by               June 30, 2002        June 2004
    Parliament of a new
    Telecommunications Law
·   Establishment of telecommunications          December 31, 2002    Mid-2003
    secondary legislation
·   INCM is fully operational and has
    established monitoring procedures to         December 31, 2003    Mid-2004
    ensure compliance with new legislation
·   Frequency management and monitoring
    plan                                         September 30, 2002   2005
·   Spectrum management and monitoring
                                                 September 30, 2003   Q1 2007
    equipment procured
·   Separation of TDM's internet, mobile and
                                                 December 31, 2001    Q3 2003
    international operations as separate
    business units
·   Telecommunications entity offered for sale   December 31, 2002    n/a
·   Rural strategy finalized                     June 30, 2003        Dec. 2006
·   First round of market based bidding for      June 30, 2004        Feb. 2007
    minimum subsidy for rural
    services launched
·   Information technology/e-commerce            September 30, 2004   June 2009
    enabling legislation adopted
·   Postal sector policy adopted                 March 31, 2003       July 2009
·   Postal regulation adopted                    December 31, 2003    n/a
·   Modernization plan for postal entity         June 30, 2004        2008
    prepared


                                                                                           28
Air Transport Sector Reform

·   Issuance of key decrees empowering           June 30, 2002        Q1 2004
    the Civil Aviation Authority to oversee
    technical and economic regulation and
    enacting air transport regulation
·   Complete set of coherent secondary           March 31, 2003       Q1 2004
    legislation adopted to enact the air
    transport liberalization (licensing,
    pricing, provision for social routes and
    minimum service)
·   Civil Aviation Authority fully operational   December 31, 2003    2004
·   Tender for the concession of MIA             September 30, 2002   Tender for MIA in 2001,
    launched and awarded                                              never concluded
·   Tender for LAM to enter a strategic          December 31, 2003    Tender for LAM: n/a
    alliance is launched and awarded
·   Strategic action plan for introducing        September 30, 2002   2007
    private participation in the secondary
    airport system adopted




                                                                                         29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

There was a limited economic and financial analysis of the program completed at the
time of appraisal. No NPV, economic or financial rate of return was calculated a priori
for the project, and no analyses are available to assess economic or financial
results. A short description of the project efficiency is provided in Section 3.3.




                                                                                          30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                           Lead Private Sector Development
Mohammad Mustafa                                             CITPO
                           Specialist
 Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao     Senior Financial Officer          AFC02
 Yann Burtin               Operations Officer                CITPO
 Monika Hencsey            Operations Analyst                CITPO
.Lizmara Kirchner          Program Assistant                 CITPO
Supervision/ICR
Isabel Neto                ICT Policy Specialist             CITPO
Juan Navas-Sabater         Lead ICT Policy Specialist        CITPO
 Natasha Beschorner        Senior ICT Policy Specialist      CITPO
 Antonio L. Chamuço        Procurement Spec.                 AFTPC
 Salma Chande              Team Assistant                    AFCS2
 Kashmira Daruwalla        Senior Procurement Specialist     CITPO
 Maria Isabel Nhassengo-
                           Procurement Asst.                 AFCS2
Massingue
 Jonathan Nyamukapa        Sr Financial Management Specia    AFTFM
 Michele Ralisoa Noro      Sr. Program Assistant             CITPO
 Charles E. Schlumberger   Sr Air Transport Specialist       ETWTR
 João Tinga                Financial Management Analyst      AFTFM
 Gilberto de Barros        Sr Private Sector Development     AFTFP

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                         32                       139.81
  FY02                                         34                       124.57
                           Total:              66                       264.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                    0.00
  FY02                                          18                       71.36
  FY03                                          27                       98.63
  FY04                                          23                       85.61
  FY05                                          22                      106.98
  FY06                                          19                      100.22
  FY07                                          20                       87.36
  FY08                                          16                       77.51
                           Total:              145                      627.67


                                                                                      31
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




          GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




            COMMUNICATION SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                            September, 2009




                                                                  32
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN................. 34
   1.1 Project Context........................................................................................................ 34
   1.2 Project Development Objectives ........................................................................ 36
   1.3 Project Components............................................................................................ 36
   1.4 Quality of Project Design ................................................................................... 37
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS ........................................... 38
   2.1 Achievement of Objectives ................................................................................ 38
   2.2 Output by Components....................................................................................... 38
   2.3 Financial Implementation ................................................................................... 39
3. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE .................. 40
   3.1 Assessment of Bank Performance ...................................................................... 40
   3.2 Assessment of Government Performance........................................................... 40
4. LESSONS LEARNED............................................................................................... 40
   ANNEX I : PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BY COMPONENT ............................. 42
   ANNEX II: OUTPUT INDICATORS .......................................................................... 46
   ANNEX III: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING..................................................... 48




                                                                                                                             33
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN


1.1 Project Context

As part of the general economic and social policy reform process the Government of
Mozambique introduced measures to reform the transport and communications sector, with the
objective of establishing a new environment for the sector with the provision of most of transport
services and operation of the transport infrastructure trough concession agreements. The
government (MTC) would be responsible for the design and the implementation of transport
policies as well as of monitoring the sector. These measures included:

    ·   Establishment in 1992 of a telecommunications and postal regulatory agency, Instituto
        Nacional de Comunicações de Moçambique (INCM);

    ·   Adoption in 1996 of a new Transport Policy. According to this policy, the Government of
        Mozambique (GOM) wishes to call on the contribution of the private capital for the
        building and/or rehabilitation of infrastructures, for the management, through contract or
        leasing agreement of ports, railways services and airports and for the establishing of air
        and shipping transport companies;

    ·   A set of regulations was enacted in 1999, with the intention of separating policy
        formulation, technical and economic regulation and sector operations. The management
        of 19 airports was entrusted by Decree 3/98 to Aeroportos de Moçambique (ADM),
        which operates under supervisory authority of Ministry of Transport and
        Communications (MTC) as an autonomous public company;

    ·   Linhas Aereas de Mozambique, E.P. (LAM) was incorporated as a limited liability
        company with State and employees as shareholders;

    ·   Adoption in 1999 of a Telecommunications Law which opens mobile sector to
        competition, as well as abolishes any restrictions on foreign participation and opens a
        way for the private participation in the incumbent operator, Telecomunicações de
        Moçambique;

    ·   Privatization and restructuring of several state owned companies and establishing of
        autonomous public agencies to oversight maritime and road safety.

Despite strong recovery the Mozambican economy continued to face enormous challenges, and
remained one of the least developed countries. By 2001 the economic and social situation of the
country was characterized by:

    ·   low per capita income,
    ·   high levels of poverty (55% of the population living under the poverty line and 60% with
        less than $2 a day),
    ·   low literacy levels, particularly among women and girls (with 68% being illiterate),
    ·   limited and difficult access to basic public services (e.g., only 7% of households have
        electricity and less then 50% of the population with access to water source),

                                                                                               34
    ·   with close to 80% of the population engaged in subsistence agriculture;
    ·   50% of the state budget dependent on development aid, and
    ·   lack of basic transportation, electricity and telecom infrastructure in many areas;
    ·   the vast majority of people are employed in subsistence agriculture;
    ·   high percentage of residents in the informal, non-cash economy;
    ·   smaller than usual industrial / manufacturing sectors, which typically demand high
        bandwidth services for their business needs;
    ·   constrained public funds limit funding for infrastructure in Government owned utilities
        (even when there is some availability of soft sovereign loans);
    ·   comparatively high percentage of population located in coastal transit urban nodes, with
        implications for communications requirements;

The prevailing situation in the communications sector was:

Telecommunications:

    ·   Inadequate and uneven Telephone service provision in Mozambique.
    ·   Teledensity of 0.5 main fixed lines per 100 inhabitants (2000)
    ·   End of 2000, the fixed network had a switching capacity of about 128,000 lines from
        which 86,000 were in service. There was only about 2,000 public phones.
    ·   Urban areas had 99 percent of the telephone lines, while only 1,340 lines was available in
        rural areas, whit a population of about 11 million.
    ·   Large areas are without any communications service
    ·   Real demand estimated to be well above the official waiting list of 21,000 reported by
        TDM.
    ·   Bottlenecks to internet development in Mozambique caused by lack of long-distance
        transmission facilities, high prices of leased lines, low PC penetration, limited computer
        literacy and illiteracy; high prices faced by low income users and lack of local language
        content.

Post:

    ·   Only 10 full-service post offices located in the provincial capitals, and 450 postal
        stations.
    ·   Number of mail items delivered per capita per a year has been stagnating around 0.4.


Air Transport:

    ·   Air transport system poorly developed and unable to meet the country's specific needs in
        terms of (i) helping effectively capture significant tourism flows; (ii) facilitating national
        market integration; (iii) linking remote rural areas of the country.
    ·   Air services provision characterized as uneven, of questionable quality and extremely
        expensive.
    ·   National airports affected by the limited frequency and high cost of service of the
        national carrier;
    ·   Traffic volume affected by the fact that aeronautical fees charged at Maputo International
        Airport (MIA) are substantially higher



                                                                                                   35
      ·   ADM rely heavily on aeronautical charges (landing, runways, aircraft parking and
          passengers fees) for its revenues;
      ·   Poor quality of service;
      ·   Risk of international and regional traffic being further diverted to other destinations.

1.2       Project Development Objectives

The project had as main objective to improve access to and quality of efficient and affordable
communications services through creating an enabling environment for competition and private
participation in key sectors deemed critical to facilitate national and regional market integration
i.e. telecommunications, postal and air transport infrastructure and services.

This would be achieved by assisting the Ministry of Transport and Communications to strengthen
its policy functions help INCM and INAC strengthen their regulatory capacity, including the
modernization of the radio spectrum management and monitoring systems. The project was also
aimed at assisting the Ministry to design and implement privatization strategies for TDM, the
airport system and LAM. The project would also develop strategy for market based rural access
and provide seed money for universal access fund.

These objectives were consistent with Bank's CAS and the Government's five year Absolute
Poverty Alleviation Program. The would benefit the population as a whole in Mozambique by
increasing the availability and affordability of traditional and modern telecommunication, postal
and air transport services. The introduction of competition and a more effective regulatory
framework will lead to more competitive services in terms of price, quality and variety. The
improvement and expansion of telecommunication internet, postal and air transport services will
contribute to sustainable economic growth.

Business, especially small and medium enterprises to be competitive, will benefit from cost and a
greater variety of value added services. A modern telecommunications framework, ensuring
market innovations and competition, will make Mozambique more attractive to foreign investors.
For residential consumers, expanding and improving telecommunications and postal services will
help reduce the waiting time to be connected and reduce information isolation for the population
living in remote and rural areas.

In the air transport sector, benefits are expected to be significant for the local private sector as the
improved efficiency of transport services will have a direct impact on tourism-related services
and businesses, a sector where prospects are the highest in terms of growth. The benefits of
improved access, competitive rates, and modernization of airport infrastructure in the
development corridor will spill over through a multiplier effect to boost tourism and increase
linkages for regional and nation's trade. Increased traffic and thereby job creation in the local
market. Reduced transaction costs in trade logistic will create better frequent, reliable, and
competitively price air services which can help improve on-time delivery of products to key
markets.

Project objectives were not revised throughout the project.


1.3       Project Components



                                                                                                     36
The project consisted in two major components, each assisting a reform process in
telecommunications and postal sector, and air transport sectors, respectively. In addition, the
project included an institutional strengthening, project management, procurement and financial
management capacity component to ensure effective project implementation.

(a) The telecommunication and postal sector reform component included the following sub-
    components:

-     Sub component 1.1 - Development of telecommunication policy, strengthening policy
      capacity and awarding new licenses;

-     Sub component 1.2 - Preparation of a comprehensive telecommunications and postal legal
      and regulatory framework, including strengthening of INCM's regulatory capacity;

-     Sub component 1.3 - Privatization of TDM;

-     Sub component 1.4 - Strategy for market-based rural access, establishment of universal
      access fund and provision of seed money;

-     Sub component 1.5 ­ Information and communications technology enabling legislation;

-     Sub component 1.6 ­ Development of postal sector strategy;

(b) The air transport sector reform component included the following sub components:

-     Sub component 2.1 ­ Development of an air transport policy and regulatory framework and
      capacity building for the Civil Aviation Policy Unit;

-     Sub component 2.2 ­ Strengthening regulatory capacity on INAC;

-     Sub component 2.3 ­ Restructuring and privatization of LAM;

-     Subcomponent 2.4 ­ airport concession;

c)        The Project management and implementation component included the following sub
          components:

-     Sub component 3.1- Strengthening project management, procurement and financial
      management capacity

-     Sub component 3.2 ­ Communications campaign, information and dissemination

The design of the project's components and sub-components was clearly linked to the
achievement of the development objectives recognizing the importance and need for the
participation of private capital in the creation and rehabilitation and/or management of
infrastructures and provision of services in the transport and communication sector with
the State retaining the role of facilitator, responsible for defining policy and creating an
environment conducive to investment.

1.4       Quality of Project Design

                                                                                               37
The quality of project design was satisfactory in that the development objectives were
consistent with Government's policy framework and Bank's strategy and the components
reflected the objectives. In particular the project addressed the issue of law project
implementation capacity by adding a specific component to recruit technical assistance
and train personnel.



2.        ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

2.1       Achievement of Objectives

The main outcome indicators for the achievement of Project's Development Objective are: (i)
Overall telephone density (fixed and mobile) to double from 0.8 (2000) to 1.6 lines (2006) per
100 inhabitants - measured in numbers of subscribers per 100 inhabitants; (ii) Change in number
of internet users per 1000 people and (iii) Change in annual average number of air transport
passengers.

While we there are not systematic information on internet users and air transport passengers, The
continued growth in the sector is apparent ­ teledensity continues to increase fast, to 20%
at the end of 2008, more than fourteen times higher than the project target. Although this
progress cannot be attributed to the project alone, it is evident that the various activities
implemented trough the project to improve the legal and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and to attract private participation did play an important role.

Based on the above findings the rating for project outcome is considered satisfactory.

2.2       Output by Components

The Annex I provides a summary o project implementation by component.

The Output indicators as defined in the Appraisal are detailed in Annex II. As can be seen from
the annex most of the activities planned under the project have been completed.

The activities included in the Project Appraisal that were not completed or have been only
partially implemented are:

-     Privatization of TDM;
-     Implementation of an Universal Access Obligation Telephony Pilot Project;
-     Restructuration of LAM and establishment of strategic alliances with private operator;
-     Concession of Maputo International Airport;
-     Assistance to the Civil Aviation Policy Unit

Following an analysis of the outcomes of the privatization process in Mozambique, it was
concluded that it is advisable to re-think and reshape the process in order to increase the
opportunity for the achievement of the objectives pursued by the restructuring and privatization
of the entities. In line with this approach the implementation of the activities related with opening
the telecom incumbent and LAM to private participation and concession of Maputo International

                                                                                                  38
Airports were interrupted. It should be noted that despite the decision to defer the opening to
private participation all the entities implemented restructuring measures such as staff
retrenchment and investment in the core business of the companies.

A tender for the Universal Access program was launched in February 2007, but was unsuccessful:
there was a low turn-out and none of the received bids fulfilled the required criteria. Following a
post-bid analysis and stakeholder consultations, the tender design was re-engineered to reflect
operators concerns, and re-launched in October 2007. Despite the design re-engineering to reflect
operators concerns, the October-December 2007 tender yielded no bids for the telephony services
contract. As a consequence, the Telephony tender was cancelled.

With the restructuring of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in 2001 it was envisaged
the creation of a Civil Aviation Policy Unit. However, this entity was not established and staffed
being the policy aspects related to civil aviation dealt by the civil aviation sector regulatory body
IACM.

 The following activities not originally include in the PAD have been implemented with approval
of the Government and the Bank:

-     Implementation of RNAV non precision instrument approach procedures based on the Global
      Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) in the airports of:

      (i)     Quelimane
      (ii)    Pemba
      (iii)   Lichinga
      (iv)    Tete
      (v)     Chimoio
      (vi)    Vilanculos
      (vii)   Inhambane


Taking into account that the decision to defer or suspend the process of opening TDM and LAM
to private participation may have transmitted negative signals to investors it is considered that the
rating of the components are in general moderately sactisfactory.

2.3       Financial Implementation

The total cost of the project components as estimated at appraisal was of US$ 15,4 million
United States dollars equivalent of which US$ 14,9 million to be financed by IDA and US$0.5 by
the Government of Mozambique .

An evaluation of actual project costs shows that a total of equivalent to US$ 16.8 million were
disbursed of which US$ 15.5 million financed by IDA and US$ 1.3 million financed by the
Government of Mozambique. It should be noted that although the cost of the project in dollar
equivalent is above the estimated at appraisal the amount spent in the currency of the credit
(XDR) is about 92% of the allocation, meaning that about US$ 1.4 million of the credit remained
unutilized. This was mainly due to non implementation of the Universal Access Obligation
Telephony pilot project.




                                                                                                  39
The final cost of the Project Management component is well above the estimated at appraisal.
This is due that most of the operational costs related to other components were considered under
the Project Management component. It should be noted that the GoM contributed with more than
double of the amount estimated at appraisal.

3.      ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE


3.1     Assessment of Bank Performance

The Project as identified was appropriate. Bank assistance in preparation and implementation was
adequate on the technical front. Considering the complexity of most of the assignments to be
implemented and relatively lack of familiarization within the Government implementing agencies
the support from the TTL and Telecommunications and Civil Aviation, experts, as well as from
the Procurement Specialist was important for the implementation of the project.

Supervision and communication were adequate with reasonable turn-round time on procurement
clearances and general assistance. These improved when the TTL of the project was based on the
Maputo Mission. Therefore overall Bank performance can be rated as highly satisfactory to
satisfactory.

3.2     Assessment of Government Performance

Government performance was influenced by: (i) changes in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications direction (three times during project life) with implications related to
familiarization with project objectives and priorities; (ii) change in key staff of implementing
agencies and (iii) change in priorities in Government policy such as the decision to defer/suspend
the opening of selected entities to private participation. Changes in staff of Ministry's directorates
resulted in poor ownership and commitment of Government officials for the implementation of
the project activities.

The performance of the PIU was influenced by having to manage two projects, meaning that
often both projects had heavy agendas resulting in slow response. Overall the performance of the
borrower can be rated as unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory.



4.      LESSONS LEARNED

Project Ownership: It is important to assure that concerned ministry's agencies are involved in
project preparation and implementation in order to fulfill the inputs they are expected to provide
on time:

Bank/Government policy dialogue: It is important to secure policy dialogue at an adequate level
between the Bank and Government so that changes in priorities and policy objectives by
Government may be understood and translated in the re-design of project components or plans of
operations;

Adequate staffing of Project Management Office/Unit: The PIU must be staffed according to the
workload of the activities being implemented.

                                                                                                   40
41
               ANNEX I : PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BY COMPONENT

   OBJECTIVES            PLANNED ACTIVITIES                IMPLEMENTATION                 OBSERVATIONS
Component 1: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform
1.1 Development of - Support the design of    Completed:
telecommunications   new                     - A consultant was hired to assist in
policy               telecommunications         drafting a new Telecommunication
strengthening        policy;                    Policy approved by Cabinet on
policy capacity and                             October 2001;
awarding       new - Assistance in building
licenses             capacity in sector      - Technical assistant was provided
                     analysis, policy           trough telecommunications and
                     formulation and            postal consultants to the MTC's
                     monitoring of results;     telecommunications postal unit;

                       - Support the award of    - With the assistance of consultants
                         mobile licenses to        financed under the project a second
                         private operators         mobile license was awarded


1.2 Preparation of     - Preparation of          Completed:
a comprehensive          secondary legislation   - Technical assistance provided to
telecommunications       and technical             support INCM in the development of
and postal legal and     regulation:               INCM's internal organization and
regulatory                                         function; development of decrees on
framework,             - Review of the             licensing, numeration and
including                Telecommunications        interconnection.
strengthening of         Law;
INCM's capacity                                  - Technical assistant to draft a new
                       - INCM institutional        Telecommunications Act approved
                         strengthening program     by Parliament;

                                                 - Technical Assistance in the
                                                   preparation of a Telecommunications
                                                   Sector Market analysis;

                                                 - Technical assistance in the
                                                   procurement and installation of a
                                                   new Spectrum Monitoring and
                                                   Management System

                                                 - Installation of an ICT network

                                                 - Support to INCM's staff training and
                                                   skills development mainly trough on
                                                   job training.
1.3 Privatization of   - Assistance for the      Not completed:
TDM                      opening of TDM to       - Technical assistance to assist the      Due to changes
                         private participation     government in developing options       in Government
                                                   for opening TDM to private             priorities the
                                                   participation that prepared a          program for
                                                   Preliminary Report for discussion;     opening TDM to
                                                                                          private

                                                                                                   42
   OBJECTIVES             PLANNED ACTIVITIES                    IMPLEMENTATION                  OBSERVATIONS
                                                      - Technical assistance for the            participation was
                                                        development of TDM Corporate            suspebed.
                                                        Medium Term Strategy ;
1.4 Strategy for        - Assistance in the           Partially Completed:
market-based rural        formulation of an           - Technical Assistance in the
access,                   universal access policy       development of a universal access
establishment of          and strategy,                 policy and strategy. These policy
universal access          implementation                documents were integrated in the
fund and provision        strategy and design and       Telecommunications Strategy
of seed money             implementation of rural       approved by the government in
                          and universal service         December 2006;
                          fund.
                                                      - Technical Assistance in drafting the
                        - Implementation of a           Universal Access Fund that was
                          universal access              approved by Cabinet and an
                          obligation pilot project.     Executive Secretary was established
                                                        within INCM;                            US$ 3.0 million
                                                                                                allocation under
                                                      - Technical Assistance in the design of   the project had
                                                        a Universal Access Pilot Project and    been earmarked
                                                        bidding process for selection of a      for a pilot project
                                                        UAO service provider for telephony      to demonstrate the
                                                        and internet services;                  Universal Access
                                                                                                mechanism.
                                                      - Selection of a service provider to      However after a
                                                        implement a UAO internet service in     second round
                                                        the districts of Angoche, Moanapo,      bidding process
                                                        Mocuba and Guruè in Nampula and         only the service
                                                        Zambêzia provinces;                     provider for the
                                                                                                UAO Internet
                                                      - Support to INCM in the supervision      Service was
                                                        of implementation of the UAO            selected. The
                                                        Internet service pilot project;         telephony tender
                                                                                                was cancelled.
                                                      - Technical Assistance in the
                                                        evaluation of the Universal Access
                                                        exercise and outlining of a strategy
                                                        going forward.
1.5 Information and     - E-legislation and on-       Completed
communications            line business               - Technical Assistance in the
technology                transactions                  preparation of Draft law for
enabling legislation.     development.                  promotion of online transactions and
                                                        online activities which is being
                                                        reviewed by the Cabinet for
                                                        submission to the parliament.
1.6 Development         - Elaboration of a postal     Completed:
of postal sector          policy and postal           - Technical Assistance in drafting a
strategy                  development strategy          Postal Policy that has been approved
                          and modernization             by Parliament and a Postal Law
                          plan.                         approved by the Council of Ministers
                                                        awaiting submission to Parliament;

                                                      - Technical Assistance for the review
                                                        and reform of the national post
                                                        operator (CDM);

                                                                                                          43
   OBJECTIVES          PLANNED ACTIVITIES                   IMPLEMENTATION                  OBSERVATIONS


                                                  - Technical Assistance in designing a
                                                    computerized financial management
                                                    system for CDM headquarters and
                                                    financing of acquisition of related
                                                    equipment.
Component 2: Air Transport Reform
2.1 Development     - Assistance in the           Partially completed:                      Although
of an air transport   formulation of a new        - Technical Assistance provided for       formally
policy and            air transport policy;         the formulation of a new Air            established the
regulatory                                          Transport Sector Policy;                Civil Aviation
framework and       - Assistance to the Civil                                               policy Unit in the
capacity building     Aviation Policy Unit.                                                 ministry was not
for Civil Aviation                                                                          staffed and
Policy Unit                                                                                 operationalized.
2.2 Strengthening   - Legal framework and         Completed:
regulatory capacity   setup of IACM;              - Technical Assistance provided to
of INAC                                             draft decrees to enact the new
                    - Assistance in                 transport policy and assistance to
                      development of sector         IACM institutional startup:
                      oversight capacity;         - Technical Assistance to IACM in
                                                    the development of Primary Aviation
                     - Development of               legislation and Regulations; Aircraft
                       information                  Operations Certification and
                       management system            Supervision; Personnel Licensing
                       and provision of             and Training Programme and
                       telecommunications           Airworthiness of Aircraft;
                       equipment.                 - Technical Assistance for drafting
                                                    Airport Certification Legislation;
                                                  - Technical Assistance in drafting an
                                                    Air Transport law, approved by
                                                    Parliament in 2009;

                                                  - Financing of development of RNAV        This activity was
                                                    non precision instrument approach       not part of the
                                                    procedures based upon the Global        component in the
                                                    Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)      PAD. It was
                                                    for seven selected airports.            included and
                                                                                            approved by the
                                                                                            Bank taking into
                                                                                            account its
                                                                                            importance to
                                                                                            increase the safety
                                                                                            of flight
                                                                                            operations in the
                                                                                            country.

2.3 Restructuring    - Pre-privatization          Not Completed:                            Although the
and private            restructuring of LAM;      - Technical Assistance in performing      process of
participation                                       the Diagnosis of LAM situation;         preparation of
scheme of LAM        - Assistance for the           Development of Valuation Model;         LAM for offering
                       establishment of             Analysis of Different Privatization     to private
                       strategic alliances with     Scenarios; and preparation of           participation was
                       private operators.           documents for bidding process.          substantially
                                                                                            completed the

                                                                                                      44
   OBJECTIVES          PLANNED ACTIVITIES                  IMPLEMENTATION                  OBSERVATIONS
                                                                                           process was
                                                                                           discontinued by
                                                                                           Government
                                                                                           decision.

2.4 Airport          - Provision of legal,       Not Completed:
Concession             technical and financial   - Technical Assistance provided to        Although a
                       advisory services for       advise in the process of finalization   concession
                       the concession of           and implementation of a concession      agreement was
                       Maputo International        strategy;                               finalized and
                       Airport (MIA)                                                       signed, it was not
                                                 - Technical Assistance provided for       endorsed by
                                                   the preparation of an alternative       Cabinet and the
                                                   financing concept for the               process was
                                                   Mozambican Airports.                    suspended.

Component 3: Project Management and Implementation
3.1 Strengthening    - Technical assistance     Completed:
project                and training             - The project financed a Senior
management,                                       Accountant and a Procurement
procurement and      - Auditing of project        Specialist as well as training
financial              accounts                   programs in procurement and
management                                        financial management;
capacity
                                                - International Auditors selected and
                                                  audit reports prepared as required by
                                                  the project's DCA.
3.2                  - Financing of             Completed:
Communications         information materials,   - Workshops and consultative
campaign,              workshops and others       activities conducted for specific
information and        consultative activities.   programs such as new legislation and
dissemination                                     regulations




                                                                                                     45
                           ANNEX II: OUTPUT INDICATORS


Telecommunications and Post

   Planned milestone                                            Actual progress
   · The Government shall submit for the approval of        The new Law n.8/2004 of 21 de
      the     Assembly      a    new     pro-competition    Junho was approved ­ 1st Q of 2004
      telecommunications law conducive to a multi-
      operator environment by the second quarter of
      2002.
   · The        Government        will     enact     key    - Done ­ 2nd Q of 2003
      telecommunications secondary legislation by the
      fourth quarter of 2002.
   · The telecommunications and postal regulator            - Done
      (INCM) is fully operational by the fourth quarter
      has established monitoring procedures acceptable
      to the International Development Association
      (IDA) to ensure compliance with new legislation
      and guarantee a level playing field for sector
      operators.
   · A tender to invite entry of at least two private       - Done ­ 4th Q of 2002
      firms to provide cellular mobile services is
      launched and carried out in compliance with
      transparency and competition rules acceptable to
      IDA:
      - Tender documents released by fourth quarter of      - Done
      2001
      - Mobile license(s) awarded by the second quarter     - Done ­ 3th Q of 2002
      of 2002
   · Privatization transaction for Telecomunicações de      - This process was suspended at the
      Moçambique (TDM) is launched and carried out          request of GoM
      in compliance with transparency and competition
      rules acceptable to the IDA.
      - Bids to call to TDM privatization launched by
      the fourth quarter of 2002
   · The Government adopts a rural and universal            - Done ­ 3th Q of 2006
      access strategy by the second quarter of 2003 and
      launches first round of competitive bidding for
      allocation of limited subsidies to catalyze private
      investment in rural service provision by the
      second quarter of 2004.
   · The Government adopts a postal policy by the           - Done - 1st Q of 2006
      first quarter of 2003, postal regulation by the
      fourth quarter of 2003 and modernization plan for
      Correios de Moçambique (CDM) is prepared by
      the second quarter of 2004.



                                                                                            46
Airport Transport


   Planned milestone                                            Actual progress
   · The Government will enact key decrees                  INAC was empowered to oversee
      empowering the Civil Aviation Authority (INAC)        technical and economic regulation, .
      to oversee technical and economic regulation,
      establishing air transport regulation permitting
      immediate entry of charters, and multi designation
      of international scheduled air services by the
      second quarter of 2002.
   · The Government will enact a complete set of            The secondary legislation has been
      secondary legislation by the first quarter of 2003.   approved by the council of Ministers
                                                            in 2003.
   ·   The INAC is fully operational by the fourth          INAC is fully operational. Capacity
       quarter of 2003 and has established monitoring       building for the monitoring of
       procedures to ensure compliance with technical       technical regulation was done in
       and economic regulations, and national               2007.
       environmental rules acceptable to IDA.
   ·   Privatization transactions are launched in the time Concessioning of airport and
       frame below in compliance with transparency and privatization of LAM cancelled on
       competition rules acceptable to IDA:                GoM request.
       -Bids for MIA are launched by fourth quarter of
       2001 and a concession is awarded by the third
       quarter of 2002.




                                                                                             47
                           ANNEX III: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING



a) Project Cost by Component
                                                                                USD

                                               Appraisal          Actual        Percentage of
                Component Description
                                               Amount             Cost            Appraisal

1. Telecommunications and Postal                9,700,000.00     9,837,219.00         101.4%
1.1 Policy                                        900,000.00       1,282,780          142.5%
1. 2Regulatory Framework                        3,400,000.00       6,140,445          180.6%
1.3 Privatization of TDM                        1,200,000.00         681,260           56.8%
1.4 Rural and Universal Service                 3,500,000.00         951,180           27.2%
1.5 ICT                                          500,000.00          340,210           68.0%
1.6 Postal Sector Reform                         200,000.00          441,344          220.7%
2. Air Transport Sector Reform                  5,500,000.00     5,722,349.00         104.0%
2.1 Sector Policy                                600,000.00          476,370           79.4%
2.2 Setup of INAC                               3,300,000.00       3,356,569          101.7%
2.3 LAM Restructuring                           1,000,000.00         885,300           88.5%
2.4 Airports Concessioning & Restructuring       600,000.00        1,004,110          167.4%
3 Project Management (PIU)                       200,000.00        1,312,285          656.1%
                        TOTAL                 15,400,000.00       16,871,853          109.6%

(b) Financing


                                               Appraisal          Actual        Percentage of
Source of Funds                                Estimate           Cost            Appraisal
Borrower                                        500,000.00      1,350,958.00      270.2%
International Development Association (IDA)   14,900,000.00    15,520,895.00      104.2%




                                                                                                48
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Mozambique Country Assistance Strategy ­ 2000
Project Appraisal Document ­ 2001
Project Credit Agreement - 2001
Project Aide-memoires - 2001-2009
Project ISRs ­ 2001-2009




                                                49
MAP




      50
