Report No. PID11350
Project Name                     Tonga-Tonga Health Sector Support Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Hospitals; Secondary & Tertiary;
Reform and Financing
Project ID                       TOPE75230
Implementing Agency
Address: P. 0. Box 59
Nuku'alofa, Kingdom of Tonga
Contact Person: Mr. Sunia Soakai, Senior
Health Planning Officer
Tel: (676) 23 2000 ext. 14
Fax: (676) 24291
Email: soakai@kalianet.to
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 28, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              April 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date               August 28, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. The Kingdom of Tonga has a population of 100,672, with a high
literacy rate of 99 percent and a GDP per capita of over US$1,500. THE
UNDP Human Development Index ranks Tonga as sixth among the fourteen
Pacific islands states and as 107 globally, grouping it with countries
such as Honduras, Egypt, Guatemala, and Gabon. The fiscal situation in
the country is deteriorating with real GDP growth declining to around 3
percent in 2000/01 after having risen to over 6 percent in 1999/2000.
Although poverty is not considered a problem in Tonga (its Human Poverty
Index is low at 5.2), Tonga is very vulnerable to external economic shocks
and natural disasters which threaten the sustainability of livelihoods.
Urbanization is on the increase - around two-thirds of the population in
the Tongatapu (the most populous island) now live in the capital
Nuku'alofa compared to one-third the population in 1986. Public Sector
Reform. The Government has developed an outline for a public sector reform
program, under the Economic and Public Sector Reform Program (EPSRP),
which was approved in December 1999. It is envisaged that the
implementation of the EPSRP will focus on policies to promote private
sector leadership in economic growth, strengthen public sector management,
augment the efficiency of the financial sector and service delivery, and
improve social security. Health has been recognized as a core function of
the Government in this reform program. Sector Issues. Rising
non-communicable disease burden.. Tonga has achieved remarkable
improvements in the health status of its population over the past two
decades. Infant mortality rates has decreased from around 29.7 per 1000
live births in 1980 to 13.1 in 2000. Life expectancy is 69.8 years for
males and 71.8 for females. This is among the highest in the Pacific.
Communicable diseases are mostly under control except for intermittent
typhoid outbreaks thought to be associated with chronic carriers. Non
communicable diseases (especially diabetes and cardiovascular disease) are
recognized as the major health problems, and account for the majority of



deaths as well as the largest financial burden to the health system.
Inefficiencies in health service delivery.    The Government is the major
provider of health services in the country through a network of 4
hospitals - one large tertiary facility and three district hospitals, 14
health centers and 34 Maternal and Child Health (MCH) clinics. The
private sector is small and consists largely of after-hours private
practice by Government doctors and some non-governmental organizations,
mostly practicing in the capital city of Nuku'alofa. Hospital bed
occupancy rates are low, both in the central referral hospital, Vaiola (56
percent), and even more so in the district hospitals on the outer
islands. Utilization of ambulatory services are declining at health
centers, while they are increasing at Vaiola Hospital, with a rising urban
population and improved access to the hospital. Utilization of MCH
clinics remain high. Viaola hospital was constructed at a time when
communicable diseases predominated and long lengths of stay were the
norm. With the epidemiologic transition, the 202 bed Viaola hospital has
excess capacity relative to the health needs of the population. However,
the current structure of the hospital does not adequately support its
functional need and efficiency of clinical practice has been hampered by
the poor physical facilities. For example, outpatients, emergency,
pharmacy and radiology departments are cramped and constrain the service
able to be provided. Waiting areas for outpatients and patient facilities
(such as bathrooms) in wards are inadequate, service spaces and equipment
and support or "hotel services" especially the kitchen are in very poor
condition.Lack of financial sustainability and allocational inefficiencies
in the funding of health services.    Despite spending 8 percent of its GDP
on health, Tonga's public health sector is seriously underfunded. The
2001-2002 budget allocated 10 percent i.e., approximately T$8.4 million to
the health sector, representing a 14 percent increase from 1997/98 and
donor support provides approximately T$2.5 million in additional
assistance. It is unlikely that Government funding to the sector will
increase any further. As such, there is a need for cost containment and
increased revenues to support any improvements in existing services and
any additional needs in the sector. Resource allocation is skewed towards
curative care with 66 percent of health expenditures allocated for
hospital care. Overseas referrals for civil servants currently account
for an unsustainably large and increasing share of Government's health
care expenditures. Efforts are underway to develop an insurance program
to support overseas referrals for civil servants and a committee headed up
by the Finance Secretary has been established for this purpose. Health
Sector Priorities and Government Strategy. The Ministry of Health has
developed a corporate strategic plan as a "major step forward to the
Government's new strategic approach to economic and social development
planning" (Ministry of Health, Kingdom of Tonga, Corporate Plan
2001/2002-2003/2004). The plan identifies three strategic results areas:
to achieve improvements in the health status of the nation by increased
responsiveness to the country's health needs; to achieve improvements in
health prevention programs at all levels; and to develop strategies to
safeguard the health of the nation with regard to development. The health
sector priorities of the MOH are clearly outlined in the report Tonga's
Health 2000.   The priority areas for attention are divided into two
categories (i) management priority areas and (ii) health priority areas.
The management priority areas include (i) improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of management, (ii) improving and strengthening workforce
management, (ii) providing the Tonga health system with an efficient and
-2 -



effective financial management system while containing costs and
increasing revenues, (iii) providing the Tonga health system with improved
facilities and equipment and ensuring their maintenance and (iv)
strengthening informed decision making through the provision of
appropriate information management. Health priority areas include: (i)
diabetes and heart disease (ii) injuries and emergency care, (iii)
pharmacy services, (iv) dental decay,(v) mental health, and (vi) cancer.
2. Objectives
Health reform in Tonga is aimed at creating a health system which responds
effectively to the health needs of the population by providing the
appropriate range and level of high quality health services.The specific
objective of the project is to support health reform in the Kingdom of
Tonga by improving the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and
implement health financing policy and collect, mange and use health
information; and, by improving the functional and technical quality of
Vaiola Hospital.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The IDA supported project is linked the broader public sector reform goals
of the Government and health sector reform goals of the Ministry of
Health.   The Ministry of Health has been one of the most successful
Ministries in the reform program. One aspect of the reform is the
devolution of personnel management from the Public Service Commission to
the line ministries. The project will build capacity within the Ministry
of undertake this new responsibility. Bank support for the project also
provides access to international technical experts and capacity for
securing commitments from other donors to provide funding as well as
technical assistance to support the reform program. Interest to support
for the hospital redevelopment from JICA and to provide technical
assistance for project activities from AusAID are some examples. The Bank
can also bring relevant experience from other relevant developing and
developed countries as well as provide a macroeconomic perspective.
Experience from a similar project in Samoa and the goodwill developed
between the Bank and the various donor partners under that project is
another value added.
4. Description
The project will support the following components.Component A.
Strengthening Health Care Financing: This component will support the
review, development and implementation of policies which define the
funding and overall allocation of resources to health services. In
particular, it will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to
identify approaches towards strengthening the financing of health care
(including resource mobilization), improving the allocation of available
resources, and developing an appropriate public-private partnership.
Activities undertaken will include the development of National Health
Accounts and an institutionalization plan for its use in planning and the
development of a health financing strategy paper that evaluates various
options (user fees, revolving drug funds, insurance etc) and suggests
interventions on how to mobilize resources and improve the allocative and
technical efficiency of resource use while ensuring equitable financial
and geographic access to services. Some health financing interventions
will be piloted. A document will be developed that lays out the framework
within which a public-private partnership can be developed and identifies
- 3-



the role of the private sector in the health system. A provider payment
policy will be developed and implemented.    These will be achieved through
technical support, capacity building, studies and extensive consultation
with stakeholders and beneficiariesComponent B. Improving Health
Information System:    This component will assist the Ministry develop
capacity and establish structures for Information Management and
Information Technology Management. It will improve communication and
access to management information within the MOH and clinical support tools
such as clinical guidelines, standard care plans, evidence based practice,
through intranet and internet services. It will implement and establish
an appropriate integrated computerized information system for patient care
at Vaiola hospital and develop a population-based information system.
Capacity will be developed within the MOH to design, implement field and
targeted facility based surveys and surveillance systems to collect data
on a periodic and ad hoc basis.Component C. Upgrading of Health
Infrastructure: The component will support the design and implementation
of rehabilitation and facilities improvement at the Vaiola Hospital to
overcome identified major deficiencies and to improve functional
relationships and the overall operational efficiency of the hospital.
These developments will be guided by a master plan for the hospital,
including equipment and maintenance plans, (prepared during project
preparation) and will enhance the hospital's capacity to efficiently meet
its future service obligations. The project will provide financing for
structural and equipment investment identified in the masterplan. It will
also develop institutional and human resource capacity within the Ministry
to manage and maintain capital investments. Funding for this component
will also be provide through a parallel financing mechanism by Japan
International Cooperation Agency. A joint framework for the
implementation of this activity will be agreed upon during project
preparation.Component D. Project Management and Coordination: This
component includes the operation of the Project Management Unit (PMU)
which will provide project support functions, including financial and
procurement management and liaison with the implementing units in the
Ministry of Health. The project will fund project management consultants,
travel, training and other administrative expenses.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $1.20
IBRD
IDA                      $7.00
Total Project Cost       $8.20
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a five year period between 2003-2008,
with a mid term review in the middle of year three. It will be
implemented by the Ministry of Health. Project oversight: Project
implementation will be under the guidance of Project Steering Committee
(PSC) headed by the Ministry of Health and comprising the Ministries of
Finance, Public Works, Foreign affairs, Public Services Commission,
Central Planning Department and the Statistics Department. The Senior
Health Planning Officer of the MOH has been has been identified as the
Project Director and will be responsible for reporting on progress in
project activities to the Steering Committee. Implementing agencies: A
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established within the Ministry of
- 4 -



Health. The PMU will be responsible to the PSC for administration of
procurement, financial management and for liaison with implementing units
of MOH and will include a project coordinator, a procurement officer, an
accountant and a project assistant. The PMU will coordinate the
activities of all implementing units and serve as the main point of
communication with IDA. The Principal Health Administrator in the MOH
will be the Implementation Manager responsible for the Health Information
System and Health Care Financing components. The Implementation Manager
for the capital works component will be seconded from the Ministry of
Works for the duration of the Project.Project Monitoring: Monitoring of
project indicators (see Annex 1) will be coordinated by the health
information systems manager. Project progress reports will be prepared by
the various implementation units and compiled by the PMU for submission to
IDA on a semiannual basis.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project will be measured in terms of health
benefits, fiscal impact, institutional capacity and community support for
reform after project completion. Improvements in the operational
efficiency of the Vaiola hospital and the accompanying health financing
reforms is expected to improve sustainability of funding for the sector
and the effectiveness of health service delivery. The masterplan
preparation will also ascertain the implications both in terms of human
resources and recurrent costs to ensure that the hospital can be run
efficiently with adequate resources to maintain the facility. The project
will provide action-based training to health ministry staff to build
capacity in policy development, health information collection and analysis
and asset management and planning. The stakeholder consultation process
developed during the project will ensure continued community support for
the reform process.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Critical lessons learned from other Bank-financed health and other
projects in the region especially in the Pacific as well as around the
world are being taken into consideration during project design. Also
being taken into consideration are the experiences of other donor projects
in the country. These include:(i) Project should be focussed. There is a
tendency for health projects in small countries to include multiple and
loosely linked objectives. This often complicates the implementation and
makes the project less successful. The project design and implementation
structure has been kept simple to ensure this.(ii) Capacity building
support is essential in institutional strengthening projects. Further,
this being the first health project in Tonga allowance must be made for
limited capacity in project implementation and application of Bank
requirements must be realistic with sufficient support for meeting Bank
safeguards, financial management requirements and project supervision. An
institutional support program for the Ministry related to financial
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation will be developed
as part of the project design.    On-the-job training will be an essential
part of the project design. Technical experts hired under the project
will be required to provide training to their counterparts as part of
their contract.(iii) Systems should be in place to deal with high turnover
of project staff.    In small island countries with high turnover among
staff, systems are needed that can be easily understood and introduced as
potential changes in staff continue in the future. High turnover also
- 5-



needs to be taken into consideration when training plans are
prepared.(iv) Quality at entry. Poverty and social impact analysis, risk
analysis and monitoring and evaluation will be given priority during
project preparation to ensure quality at entry.(v) Stakeholder support for
reform. Any reform initiative needs to socially sustainable. Full
involvement of communities will be ensured through broad participation of
all stakeholder during project preparation and implementation.(vi) Donor
coordination. To ensure coordination among all donor partners in the
reform program and especially with JICA in the redevleopment of the
hospital, a clear framework for coordination in procurement planning,
project implementation and policy development will be developed during
project preparation. Bank missions so far have been closely conducted
with AusAID project staff. Project preparation mission will be conducted
jointly with JICA. Twice year donor meetings and a possible common
project steering committee for all donor projects will be suggested during
future missions.(viii) Availability of counterpart funds. ADB's Country
Assistance Plan for 2001-2003 (December 2000) indicates its portfolio
experience in project implementation since Tonga joined ADB in 1972. Past
problems were related to unavailability of counterpart funding. The
project would recommend a separate Special Account for the counterpart
fund, which would be deposited in advance, preferably at the beginning of
the year, to ensure availability of funds.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project mainly supports rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure and extension of existing buildings. Demolition of
some exisiting buildings, movement of workers, equipment and materials
within the hospital site and proper disposal of debris are the
environmental issues that may arise. Attention will be given to ensuring
that the impacts will be minimal. Hospital construction contracts will
include specific technical provisions specifying good environmental
practices. The supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring
that these requirements are met. A hospital waste management system will
be part of the redevelopment of the Vaiola hospital masterplan. The
masterplan overview has already reviewed the onsite waste water treatment
and storm water recycling system and ascertained that it is in keeping
with current best practice engineering principles.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rekha Menon
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2529
Fax: 202 522 3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-6-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
July 5, 2002.
-7 -



