E728
Volume 2
Tonga Health Care Project
Health Care Waste Management
Feasibility Study
March 3, 2002
Alfred Picardi
Senior Environmental Management Consultant
327 Rosslare Drive
Arnold, MD 21012
001 (410) 544 - 4295
alpicardi @ cablespeed.com



Tonya Health Care Proiect
Health Care Waste Management Feasibility Study
Contents
Chapter 1 Introduction
Chapter 2 Background on Health Care Waste
Chapter 3 Review of Current Situation
Chapter 4 Review of Health Care Waste Treatment Technologies
Chapter 5 Options for Treatment and Disposal of Health Care Wastes in Tonga
Chapter 6 Recommendations for Implementation
Annexes:
Annex 1     List of Persons Interviewed and Facilities Visited
Annex 2     Photographs
Annex 3     WHO Guidelines for Incinerator Emissions
Annex 4     Consultant Terms of Reference
Annex 5     Definitions
Annex 6     Wastewater Treatment Plant Specifications
2



Chapter 1
Introduction
The World Bank is currently assisting the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga in
preparing a project to support the country's health sector reform. The specific objective
of the project is to (i) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and
implement health financing policy and collect, manage and use health information, and
(ii) improve the administrative, functional and technical quality of Vaiola Hospital.
A component of the project will support the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital
infrastructure and facilities, to overcome identified major deficiencies, improve the
functional relationships and overall operational efficiency of the hospital, and enhance
the hospital's capacity to efficiently meet its future service obligations. These
developments will be guided by a master plan for the hospital, which is to be prepared
during project preparation.
Medical waste generated by the Ministry of Health facilities will likely increase, in
quantity and variety. This feasibility study was undertaken as a step to minimize potential
adverse human health and environmental impacts of waste generated by the hospital, and
to recommend actions to establish an environmentally sustainable health care waste
management system. The terms of reference for the study is in Annex 4.
3



Chapter 2
Background on Health Care Waste
Waste Characterization
Almost 80% of the total of wastes generated by health-care activities are general waste
comparable to domestic waste. The remaining approximate 20% of wastes are considered
hazardous materials that may be infectious, toxic or radioactive. Infectious wastes are
defined to include discarded sharps and infectious non-sharp materials.
Sharps consist of syringe or other needles, blades, broken glass or other items that can
cause injury.
Infectious non-sharps include materials that have been in contact with blood or body
fluids of patients, such as bandages, swabs or items soaked with blood. Excreta is also an
infectious waste.
Non-infectious wastes are materials that have not been in contact with patients, ad may
include paper and plastic packaging, metal, glass or other wastes which are similar to
household wastes.
The wastes and by-products cover a diverse range of materials, as the following list
illustrates (percentages are approximate values):
*  Infectious wastes - cultures and stocks of infectious agents, wastes from infected
patients, wastes contaminated with blood and its derivatives, discarded diagnostic
samples, infected animals from laboratories, and contaminated matenals (swabs,
bandages) and equipment (disposable medical devices etc.); and
* Anatomic - recognizable body parts and animal carcasses.
Infectious and anatomic wastes together represent the majority of the hazardous waste, up
to 15% of the total waste from health-care activities.
*  Sharps - syringes, disposable scalpels and blades etc.
Sharps represent about 1% of the total waste from health-care activities.
* Chemicals - for example solvents and disinfectants; and
* Pharmaceuticals - expired, unused, and contaminated; whether the drugs
themselves (sometimes toxic and powerful chemicals) or their metabolites,
vaccines and sera .
Chemicals and pharmaceuticals amount to about 3% of waste from health-care activities.
* Genotoxic waste - highly hazardous, mutagenic, teratogenic or carcinogenic, such
as cytotoxic drugs used in cancer treatment and their metabolites; and
1



* Radioactive matter, such as glassware contaminated with radioactive diagnostic
material or radiotherapeutic materials;
* Wastes with high heavy metal content, such as broken mercury thermometers.
Genotoxic waste, radioactive matter and heavy metal content represent about 1% of the
total waste from health-care activities.
The major sources of health-care waste are hospitals and other health-care
establishments, laboratories and research centers, mortuary and autopsy centers, animal
research and testing laboratories, blood banks and collection services, and nursing homes
for the elderly.
High-income countries can generate up to 6 kg of hazardous waste per person per year. In
the majority of low-income countries, health-care waste is usually not separated into
hazardous or non-hazardous waste. In these countries, the total health-care waste per
person per year is anywhere from 0.5 to 3 kg.
Risks Caused by Poor Management of Health Care Wastes
Health-care waste management is an integral part of health-care, and creating harm
through inadequate waste management reduces the overall benefits of health-care. Poor
management of health-care waste can cause serious disease in health-care personnel,
waste workers, patients and the general public. The main source of illness from
infectious waste is probably injuries from used needles, which can cause hepatitis and
HIV. There are however numerous other diseases which could be transmitted by contact
with health-care wastes.
Health-care waste is a reservoir of potentially harmful micro-organisms which can infect
hospital patients, health-care workers and the general public. Other potential infectious
risks include the spread of, sometimes resistant micro-organisms from health-care
establishments into the environment. These risks have so far been only poorly
investigated. Wastes and by-products can also cause injuries, for example radiation burns
or sharps-inflicted injuries; poisoning and pollution, whether through the release of
pharmaceutical products, in particular, antibiotics and cytotoxic drugs, through
improperly treated waste water discharge or by toxic elements or compounds such as
mercury or dioxins.
Occupational Risk
During handling of wastes, health-care personnel and waste workers (within and outside
the health care facility) can come in contact with waste if it hasn't been packaged safely.
Many injuries occur because syringe needles or other sharps have not been collected in
safety boxes, or because these have been overfilled. Also, contact with other infectious
waste that has not been packaged or treated adequately may cause a risk. On landfills or
waste dumps, waste recyclers or scavengers may come in contact with infectious wastes
if the wastes have been disposed of without pnor treatment.
2



Risk to the Public
The reuse of syringes by the general public represents one of the greatest public health
problems in the developing world related to health-care waste. Worldwide, an estimated
10 to 20 million infections of Hepatitis B and C and HIV occur annually from the reuse
of discarded syringe needles without pnor sterilisation [Kane et al, 2000]. If health-care
waste is dumped on un-controlled sites or in other areas that can be accessed by the
public, the public and in particular children can come in contact with infectious wastes.
In addition, the contact with toxic chemicals, such as disinfectants, may cause accidents
when they are accessible to the public.
Sharps
Throughout the world every year an estimated 12,000 million injections are administered.
And not all needles and syringes are properly disposed of, generating a considerable risk
for injury and infection and opportunities for re-use.
Worldwide, 8-16 million hepatitis B, 2.3 to 4.7 million hepatitis C and 80,000 to
160,000 HIV infections are estimated to occur yearly from re-use of syringe
needles without sterilization. Many of these infections could be avoided if
synnges were disposed of safely. The re-use of disposable syringes and needles
for injections is particularly common in certain African, Asian and Central and
Eastern European countnes.
*  Regarding injection practices, public health authorities in West Bengal, India,
have recommended a shift to re-usable glass syringes, as the disposal
requirements for disposable syringes could not be enforced.
*  In developing countries, additional hazards occur from scavenging on waste
disposal sites and manual sorting of the waste stored at the back doors of health-
care establishments. These practices are common in many regions of the world.
The waste handlers are at immediate risk of needle-stick injuries and other
exposures to toxic or infectious materials.
Vaccine Waste
In June 2000, six children were diagnosed with a mild form of smallpox (vaccinia virus)
after having played with glass ampoules containing expired smallpox vaccine at a
garbage dump in Vladivostok, Russia. Although the infections were not life-threatening,
the vaccine ampoules should have been treated before being discarded.
Radioactive Wastes
The use of radiation sources in medical and other applications is widespread throughout
the world. Occasionally, the public is exposed to radioactive waste, usually originating
from radiotherapy treatments, that has not been properly disposed of. Serious accidents
have been documented in Goiania, Brazil in 1988 in which four people died from acute
radiation syndrome and 28 suffered serious radiation burns. Similar accidents happened
3



in Mexico City in 1962, Algeria in 1978, Morocco in 1983 and Ciudad Juarez in Mexico
in 1983.
Risks Associated with Waste Disposal
Although treatment and disposal of health-care wastes aim at reducing nsks, indirect
health risks may occur through the release of toxic pollutants into the environment
through treatment or disposal.
*  Landfilling can potentially result in contamination of drinking water. Occupational
risks may be associated with the operation of certain disposal facilities.
*  Inadequate incineration, or incineration of materials unsuitable for incineration can
result in the release of pollutants into the air. The incineration of materials containing
chlorine can generate dioxins and furans, which are classified as possible human
carcinogens and have been associated with a range of adverse effects. Incineration of
heavy metals or materials with high metal contents (in particular lead, mercury and
cadmium) can lead to the spread of heavy metals in the environment. Dioxins, furans
and metals are persistent and accumulate in the environment. Materials containing
chlorine or metal should therefore not be incinerated.
* Only modem incinerators are able to work at 800-1000 °C, with special emission-
cleaning equipment, can ensure that no dioxins and furans (or only insignificant
amounts) are produced. Smaller devices built with local materials and capable of
operating at these high temperatures are currently being field-tested and implemented
in a number of countries.
'Background section source: WHO Fact Sheet N° 253 October 2000
4



Chapter 3
Review of Current Situation in Tonga
Existing Kingdom of Tonga Laws and Regulations
Existing and planned laws and regulations related to sanitary sewage and health care
waste disposal were reviewed with the Minister and senior staff of the Ministry of Health
as well as staff of the Department of Environment. The only existing legislation or
regulation concerning these issues is the Public Health Act of 1992.
The Ministry of Health administers the Public Health Act. The Act in a general way lays
the groundwork for environmental management. According to the Act, "Any person who
creates or allows the creation of dust, smoke, fumes, effluvia, effluent or noise which is a
nuisance or prejudicial to the health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood or to the
health of any person is guilty of an offense," (Part II Summary Offenses, para. 21). There
are no regulations at this time which define what constitutes a nuisance or prejudice to
health with which to enforce the Act.
The Department of Environment has been newly created this year under the Minister of
Works, Environment and Marine. The Department is still developing regulations and
legislation. A bill requinng Environmental Impact Assessment is currently with the Law
Reform Committee. This bill may reach Parliament next year.
Current Health Care Waste Management Practices in Tonga, Ministry of Health
Facilities
The Ministry of Health operates several health care facilities in Tonga, and there are
some private clinics, but no private hospital facilities. The Public Health Inspectors are
responsible for collection and disposal of health care waste, along with other duties such
as inspection of potable water well installations and private sewage disposal facilities.
Senior staff were interviewed at the Vaiola and Prince Ngu Hospital facilities in order to
review management of health care waste. Discussions were held with the Public Health
Inspectors who are responsible for the collection, transport and disposal of the HCW at
both locations. Site tours included the wastewater treatment facilities. The waste disposal
areas currently used by the hospitals were also visited in order to assess environmental
conditions and potential hazards.
The Ministry of Health does not currently have a formal Health Care Waste Management
Policy, or a Health Care Waste Management Plan.
1



The Ministry of Health operates three hospitals and thirty-three maternal health clinics
throughout the country.
Location                               Facilites
Tongatapu                              Vaiola Hospital
7 health centers
Vava'u                                 Prince Ngu Hospital
4 health centers
Ha'apai                                Niu'ui Hospital
2 health centers
'Eua                                   Niu'eiki Hospital
Health Care Waste Management at Vaiola Hospital
The 200 bed Vaiola Hospital is located in the city of Nuku'alofa, Tongatapu. Services
provided include: medicine, Ob/gyn, surgery, pediatrics, emergency medicine, radiology,
laboratory, ear nose and throat and dentistry.
According to staff estimates, Vaiola Hospital generates about one 55-gallon drum of
general domestic waste, two boxes of sharps (less than one kilogram), and half a 55-
gallon drum (approximately 18 pounds or 9 kilograms 2) or less of infectious waste per
day. There are no estimates of volumes of chemical or pharmaceutical waste. About one
case of thyroid (radioactive) medicine is used per year.
Within the hospital, waste is moved in closed containers. There are no designated
containers for infectious waste. Puncture-proof containers are used for storage of used
sharps. There is no designated storage area for health care waste, other than the general
rubbish bin. There is no temperature control for the rubbish bin. There is no color coding
system to designate hazardous or infectious wastes.
Vaiola Hospital has developed an Infection Control Manual. This manual briefly outlines
a health care waste segregation and treatment program. According to the waste
management outline the following types of waste would be segregated for separate and
appropriate treatment: paper; garden waste; human tissue; syringes and sharps; and,
general garbage. The waste management outline specifies that sharps and infectious
waste shall be incinerated. There are no training programs in place concerning health
care waste risk for staff or handlers of health care waste. The Infection Control Manual
addresses needle stick injuries, and a needle stick injury reporting system has just been
initiated.
The hospital uses disposable syringes. Currently sharps are segregated and autoclaved, a
treatment acceptable to WHO: There are currently two autoclaves in operation at Vaiola
Hospital:
2As a rule of thumb health care waste weighs about 5 pounds per cubic foot. 1/2 drum = 27 gallons = 3.6
cubic feet
2



1. Choong Wave - Model CHS-AC250, Serial # 020019, Frequency 50/60Hz, Voltage
AC38OV, Input 14.5KW, Manufacture Date 9/2002, size 4ft deep, 6ft
tall, 2ft wide
2. Rexall Industries Co. LTD. - Model LS-5AXL, Serial 90015, Chamber Diameter
60cm, Chamber Depth 120cm, Working Pressure 1.3kg/cm2, HydroTested
Power 3.6 kg/cm2(squared), Sterilizing Temperature 122 C, Power Supply 240,
Manufacture Date 2-17-1990
Some infectious waste, including operating room waste (body parts) and laboratory waste
(urine samples, test tubes and cultures, and serum) is autoclaved prior to disposal. Out of
date blood is autoclaved and used for lab media or disposed. Not all of the infectious
waste is autoclaved.
According to maintenance staff, Vaiola Hospital used an open container on the back of
the hospital property to bum infectious waste in the past. This is no longer the practice.
Pharmaceutical waste is disposed along with the general domestic waste. Lab chemicals
are collected in plastic and disposed with the general waste or dumped into the
wastewater treatment system via the sink. Silver from x-ray developing is recycled on
site. Thermometers are disposed along with the general domestic waste. Oxygen
cylinders are refilled on site. Nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, and air cylinders are sent to
Fiji for refilling.
The general waste and the (treated and untreated) infectious and other health care wastes
are commingled and collected in household garbage bags without color coding. An off-
site municipal open dump is used for disposal of health care waste from Vaiola Hospital.
The dump is used by the entire community and is freely accessed by the public, domestic
and wild animals, and poses an ongoing human health and environmental risk..
Risks from Current Waste Management Practices
Practice: Infectious waste is not collected in designated containers.
Risk: There is risk of infection by personnel who handle the containers, who may not
realize the containers are potentially infected. The containers may not be disinfected on a
regular basis, prolonging the infection hazard. WHO guidelines call for segregation of
health care waste (hazardous and non-hazardous, chemical, sharps) into color-coded and
designated containers in order to protect hospital staff and the public from inadvertent
exposure.
Practice: There is no designated storage area for health care waste, other than the general
rubbish bin. There is no temperature control for the rubbish bin.
3



Risk: There is risk of infection by personnel who handle the containers, who may not
realize the containers are potentiaily infected. WHO guidelines call for separate, secured
(locked) temperature-controlled storage areas for hazardous health care waste, to avoid
proliferation of infectious agents.
Practice: There are no training programs in place concerning health care waste risk for
staff or handlers of health care waste.
Risk: Hospital staff may become exposed, or expose the public, to hazardous health care
waste (and needle-stick injuries/infections) due to a lack of awareness of the hazards.
Practice: Some infectious waste, including operating room waste (body parts) and
laboratory waste (urine samples, test tubes and cultures, and serum) is autoclaved prior to
disposal.
Risk: When doctors operate, body parts could end up in the waste stream. These body
parts need special attention. The EPA does not allow for the discharge of body parts to
landfills due to aesthetic reasons, and WHO does not consider landfilling a suitable
disposal option for anatomical waste. Wet thermal treatment is not suitable for treatment
3
of anatomical waste, according to WHO .
Practice: Not all of the infectious waste is autoclaved.
Risk: There is risk of infection by personnel who handle the containers, as well as
exposure of the public from spills during transportation, and at the disposal area.
Practice: There is no designated vehicle for transport of health care waste. The general
rubbish disposal vehicle is used.
Risk: The transport vehicle can carry infectious agents into the community it serves, and
expose waste transport workers as well as the public to hazardous health care waste.
WHO guidelines call for a dedicated transport vehicle that is equipped to contain spillage,
and can be thoroughly cleaned (sterilized) on a regular basis. The transport vehicle
should have an impermeable bulkhead between the waste and the operator(s).
Practice: Pharmaceutical waste is disposed along with the general domestic waste. Lab
chemicals are collected in plastic and disposed with the general waste or dumped into the
wastewater treatment system via the sink. Thermometers are disposed along with the
general domestic waste.
Risk: Toxic chemicals and heavy metals (mercury in thermometers for example) in these
unsegregated waste streams are not properly treated or disposed, allowing them to be
released into the environment. 1) during transport in a vehicle that is not contained to
prevent spillage; 2) through the wastewater treatment system; and 3) once released at the
3Chapter 9, Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
4



open dump which does not have controlled access for humans and disease vectors, air
contaminant, groundwater contaminant or stormwater runoff controls. WHO guidelines
call for the segregation and proper treatment of each type of health care waste stream.
Sanitary Wastewater Treatment at Vaiola Hospital
The sanitary wastewater treatment system at Vaiola Hospital has deteriorated and is
beyond its useful life. The chambers have been retrofitted with bubblers that provide little
effective aeration, furthermore, the chambers appear to be clogged with an accumulation
of sludge. It is doubtful that designed flow through the treatment chambers, with control
of activated sludge retention times for optimal treatment is controlled or possible. The
sanitary wastewater is receiving little treatment, and the stagnant effluent receiving pond
can be accessed by the public, domestic and wild animals, and poses a potential hazard to
human health and the environment. The hospital was once isolated, but a residential area
has grown up around the facility. Staff report that there have been odor complaints from
the community, concerning odors from the wastewater treatment system. Under the
Public Health Act of 1992, creation of nuisance odors is an offense (Part II para.22) as is
allowing a sanitary convenience to be in such a condition as to be a nuisance or
prejudicial to health (Part II Para. 28).
Health Care Waste Management at Prince Ngu Hospital
The Prince Ngu Hospital was refurbished in 1981 with grant money from Aus AID,
including new metal roofs. The facility has 61 beds, with an average occupancy rate of
forty to fifty percent. During epidemics the occupancy rate can be as high as sixty to
seventy percent. Recent epidemics have been viral (Rubella), and there are some
tuberculosis cases.
Services provided by the hospital include: medical; Ob/gyn; pediatrics; diabetes clinic;
minor surgery; vaccinations; laboratory; and, emergency medicine. Evacuations are
made via private carrier or the Tongan Army aircraft stationed at Vava'u. The hospital
does not have blood storage facilities. The hospital has some tuberculosis cases.
Tuberculosis is a persistent pathogen in the environment, and poses a special risk in
infectious wastestreams.
The hospital does not provide training in health care waste hazards, nor is there a budget
for health care waste management. No records are kept of needle stick injuries.
General domestic, pharmaceutical, infectious waste and mercury thermometers are
commingled and collected in plastic household type garbage bags. The plastic bags are
stored in open 55-gallon drums prior to disposal. The storage area is not closed or air
conditioned. Waste laboratory chemicals are drained to the septic tank (that does not have
a leachfield) via the sink. There is no recycling of silver from x-ray film development.
Waste sharps are segregated, but not disinfected. The sharps are bent by the Public
Health officer or his staff pnor to being buried in the open town dump. This practice
5



poses a hazard for the waste handlers, as well as a human health and environmental risk
at the open dump site.
According to the Public Health Act, waste containers are to be equipped with tight-fitting
lids. Infectious medical waste at Prince Ngu Hospital is commingled with general waste
in household garbage bags, and stored next to a rear entrance to the hospital in open 55-
gallon drums. About two drums of commingled waste is removed from the hospital four
times per week. The waste bags are transported in an open truck, and disposed in the
municipal open dump. The household garbage bags sometimes break open before the
transport truck reaches the dump, presenting a hazard to the communities along the haul
route, as well as the waste handlers.
The open dump can be freely accessed by the public, domestic and wild animals, and
presents a human health and environmental hazard. The dump is adjacent to an estuary,
and there is a village on the shore of this estuary several hundred meters from the dump
site.
Water Supply and Sanitary Wastewater Treatment at Prince Ngu Hospital
The hospital has a chlorinated water supply, however the Public Health Inspector lacks a
chlorine residual test kit to test the water supply for safety.
There are flush toilets in the hospital, but sewage treatment and disposal is not adequate.
The sanitary sewage is piped to an underground tank which, according to the Public
Health Inspector, overflows to the ground on vacant land adjacent to the hospital. This
area can be freely accessed by the public, domestic and wild animals, and presents a
human health and environmental hazard.
6



Chapter 4
Review of Health Care Waste Treatment Technologies
The following are WHO recognized health care waste treatment technologies in use
worldwide.
Chemical Disinfection
Chemical disinfection, used routinely in health care to kill microorganisms on medical
equipment and on floors and walls, is now being extended to the treatment of health-care
waste. Chemicals are added to waste to kill or inactivate the pathogens it contains; this
treatment usually results in disinfection rather than sterilization. Chemical disinfection
is most suitable for treating liquid waste such as blood, urine, stools, or hospital sewage.
However, solid-and even highly hazardous-health-care wastes, including
microbiological cultures, sharps, etc., may also be disinfected chemically, with the
following limitations:
* Shredding and/or milling of waste is usually necessary before disinfection;
* The shredder is often the weak point in the treatment chain, being subject to
frequent mechanical failure or breakdown.
* Powerful disinfectants are required, which are themselves also hazardous and
should be used only by well trained and adequately protected personnel.
* Disinfection efficiency depends on operational conditions.
* Only the surface of intact solid waste will be disinfected.
Human body parts and animal carcasses should not normally be disinfected chemically. If
alternative facilities for disposal are not readily available, however, they may be shredded
and then subjected to chemical disinfection. In planning the use of chemical disinfection,
requirements for the eventual disposal of the residues should be carefully considered;
improper disposal could give rise to serious environmental problems.
At present, chemical disinfection of health-care waste is limited in industrialized
countries. However, it is an attractive option for developing countries, particularly for
treating highly infectious physiological fluids, such as patients' stools in case of cholera
outbreaks.
Chemical disinfection is usually carried out on hospital premises. Recently, however,
commercial, self-contained, and fully automatic systems have been developed for health-
care waste treatment and are being operated in industrial zones. The disinfected waste
may be disposed of as non-risk health-care waste, but the chemical disinfectants may
create serious environmental problems in case of leakage or after disposal4.
4 Source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
1



Chemical shredding systems do not consistently achieve a kill rate as high as sterilisation
and therefore are not as effective at killing viral and spore forming pathogens.
Given the situation with landfill availability, and the vulnerability of groundwater
resources in Tonga, as well as the nature and variety of the health care waste that must be
treated, disinfection is not recommended as a viable option.
Disinfection is not a suitable treatment option for anatomical waste, pharmaceutical
waste, cytotoxic waste, chemical waste, or radioactive waste.
Wet Thermal Treatment
Wet thermal-or steam-disinfection is based on exposure of shredded infectious waste
to high-temperature, high-pressure steam, and is similar to the autoclave sterilization
process. It inactivates most types of microorganisms if temperature and contact time are
sufficient; for sporulated bacteria, a minimum temperature of 121°C is needed. About
99.99% inactivation of microorganisms may be expected, compared with the 99.9999%
achievable with autoclave sterilization.
The wet thermal process requires that waste be shredded before treatment; for sharps,
milling or crushing is recommended to increase disinfection efficiency. The process is
inappropriate for the treatment of anatomical waste and animal carcasses, and will not
efficiently treat chemical or pharmaceutical wastes.
The disadvantages of the wet thermal process are the following:
* the shredder is liable to mechanical failure and breakdown;
5
*  the efficiency of disinfection is very sensitive to the operational conditions.
The state of New Jersey stipulates that sterilizers utilized for waste treatment shall not be
utilized for sterilization of equipment, food or other related items. (Note: This only
applies to units that are used to sterilize equipment, i.e., syringes, that will be used on
humans. Equipment used on animals is not covered under this requirement.)
Wet thermal treatment is not suitable for anatomical waste, pharmaceutical waste,
cytotoxic waste, chemical waste or radioactive waste.
Microwave Irradiation
Most microorganisms are destroyed by the action of microwaves of a frequency of about
2450 MHz and a wavelength of 12.24cm. The water contained within the wastes is
rapidly heated by the microwaves and the infectious components are destroyed by heat
conduction.
5 Source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
2



The microwave process is widely used in several countries and is becoming increasingly
popular. However, relatively high costs coupled with potential operation and maintenance
problems mean that it is not yet recommended for use in developing countries. Similar
6
processes using other wavelengths or electron beams are also being developed .
Microwave systems do not kill spores or viruses that require temperatures above 95 deg
C for satisfactory kill rates.
The process requires a shredder, which involves high capital and maintenance costs,
(about $50,000 for a small unit, plus $20,000 for the shredder) and is not recommended
by WHO for developing countries.
Wet thermal treatment is not suitable for disposal of anatomical waste, pharmaceutical
waste, cytotoxic waste, chemical waste, or radioactive waste.
Land Disposal
If a municipality or medical authority genuinely lacks the means to treat wastes before
disposal, the use of a landfill has to be regarded as an acceptable disposal route. Allowing
health-care waste to accumulate at hospitals or elsewhere constitutes a far higher nsk of
the transmission of infection than careful disposal in a municipal landfill, even if the site
is not designed to the standard used in higher-income countries. The primary objections
to landfill disposal of hazardous health-care waste, especially untreated waste, may be
cultural or religious or based on a perceived risk of the release of pathogens to air and
water or on the risk of access by scavengers.
There are two distinct types of waste disposal to land- open dlumps and
sanitary landfills.
* Open dunmps are characterized by the uncontrolled and scattered deposit of
wastes at a site; this leads to acute pollution problems, fires, higher risks of
disease transmission, and open access to scavengers and animals. Health-care
waste should not be deposited on or around open dumps. The risk of either
people or animals coming into contact with infectious pathogens is obvious,
with the further risk of subsequent disease transmission, either directly
through wounds, inhalation, or ingestion, or indirectly through the food chain
or a pathogenic host species.
*  Sanitary landfills are designed to have at least four advantages over open
dumps: geological isolation of wastes from the environment, appropriate
engineering preparations before the site is ready to accept wastes, staff present
on site to control operations, and organized deposit and daily coverage of
waste. Disposing of certain types of health-care waste (infectious waste and
small quantities of pharmaceutical waste) in sanitary landfills is acceptable;
sanitary landfill prevents contamination of soil and of surface water and
6 ibid.
3



groundwater, and limits air pollution, smells, and direct contact with the
public.
Upgrading from open dumping directly to sophisticated sanitary landfills may be
technically and financially difficult for many municipalities. It has often been found
impossible to sustain such efforts from the available local resources. However, this is no
reason for municipal authorities to abandon the move towards safer land disposal
techniques. In the absence of sanitary landfills, any site from a controlled dump upwards
could accept health-care waste and avoid any measurable increase in infection risk. The
minimal requirements would be the following:
*  an established system for rational and organized deposit of wastes which could be
used to dispose of health-care wastes;
*  some engineering work already completed to prepare the site to retain its wastes
more effectively;
*  rapid burial of the health-care waste, so that as much human or animal contact as
possible is avoided.
It is further recommended that health-care waste be deposited in one of the two following
ways:
*  In a shallow hollow excavated in mature municipal waste in the layer below
the base of the working face, and immediately covered by a 2-metre layer of
fresh municipal waste. Scavenging in this part of the site must be prevented.
The same method is often used for hazardous solid industrial wastes; it is
specifically intended to prevent animals and scavengers from re-excavating
the deposited healthcare waste.
*  In a deeper (1-2m) pit excavated in mature municipal waste (i.e. waste
covered at least 3 months previously). The pit is then backfilled with the
mature municipal waste that was removed. Scavenging in this part of the site
must be prevented.
Alternatively, a special small burial pit could be prepared to receive health-care waste
only. The pit should be 2m deep and filled to a depth of 1-1.5 m. After each waste load,
the waste should be covered with a soil layer 10-15cm deep. If coverage with soil is not
possible, lime may be deposited over the waste. In case of outbreak of an especially
virulent infection (such as Ebola virus), both lime and soil cover may be added. Access
to this dedicated disposal area should be restricted, and the use of a pit would make
supervision by landfill staff easier and thus prevent scavenging7.
Off premises sanitary landfill disposal is not suitable for anatomical waste, sharps,
cytotoxic waste, chemical or radioactive waste, according to WHO. On-premises safe
bunal is not suitable for cytotoxic waste and radioactive waste, and WHO recommends
7 Source. Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
4



only small quantities of pharmaceutical and chemical waste be disposed in this manner.
In the case of Viaola Hospital, with vulnerable groundwater supplies, it is recommended
that no pharmaceutical or chemical waste be disposed in this manner. Once plans for
water supply for the hospital are finalized, including well placement and characterization
of hydrogeologic strata, the use of on-site disposal should be given a thorough
environmental review.
Encapsulation Prior to Landfill
Disposal of health-care waste in municipal landfills is less advisable if it is untreated than
if it is pretreated. One option for pretreatment is encapsulation, which involves filling
containers with waste, adding an immobilizing material, and sealing the containers. The
process uses either cubic boxes made of high-density polyethylene or metallic drums,
which are three-quarters filled with sharps and chemical or pharmaceutical residues. The
containers or boxes are then filled up with a medium such as plastic foam, bituminous
sand, cement mortar, or clay material. After the medium has dried, the containers are
sealed and disposed of in landfill sites.
This process is relatively cheap, safe, and particularly appropriate for establishments that
practise minimal programs for the disposal of sharps and chemical or pharmaceutical
residues. Encapsulation alone is not recommended for non-sharp infectious waste, but
may be used in combination with burning of such waste. The main advantage of the
process is that it is very effective in reducing the risk of scavengers gaining access to the
8
hazardous health-care waste .
This treatment method may be useful in disposing of pharmaceutical waste, if there is
only a small quantity.
Inertization
The process of "inertization" involves mixing waste with cement and other substances
before disposal in order to minimize the risk of toxic substances contained in the waste
migrating into surface water or groundwater. It is especially suitable, for pharmaceuticals
and for incineration ashes with a high metal content (in this case the process is also
called "stabilization").
For the inertization of pharmaceutical waste, the packaging should be removed, the
pharmaceuticals ground, and a mixture of water, lime, and cement added. A
homogeneous mass is formed and cubes (e.g. of Im3) or pellets are produced on site and
then can be transported to a suitable storage site. Alternatively, the homogeneous mixture
can be transported in liquid state to a landfill and poured into municipal waste.
The following are typical proportions for the mixture:
65% pharmaceutical waste
15% lime
8 ibid.
5



15% cement
5% water
The process is reasonably inexpensive and can be performed using relatively
unsophisticated equipment. Other than personnel, the main requirements are a grinder or
road roller to crush the pharmaceuticals, a concrete mixer, and supplies of cement, lime,
and water9.
Incineration of wastes with mercury or cadmium is not acceptable. The inertization
method may be considered for disposal of pharmaceuticals and waste with high heavy
metal content. It is not acceptable as a disposal method for mercury. Mercury waste
should be recycled.
Pyrolytic Incineration
The most reliable and commonly used treatment process for health-care waste is pyrolytic
incineration, also called controlled air incineration or double-chamber incineration. The
pyrolytic incinerator comprises a pyrolytic chamber and a post combustion chamber and
functions as follows:
* In the pyrolytic chamber, the waste is thermally decomposed through an
oxygen-deficient, medium-temperature combustion process (800-9000C),
producing solid ashes and gases. The pyrolytic chamber includes a fuel
burner, used to start the process. The waste is loaded in suitable waste bags or
containers.
* The gases produced in this way are burned at high temperature (900-1200°C)
by a fuel burner in the post-combustion chamber, using an excess of air to
minimize smoke and odours.
Adequately maintained and operated pyrolytic incinerators of limited size, as commonly
used in hospitals, do not require exhaust-gas cleaning equipment. Their ashes will contain
less than 1% unburnt material, which can be disposed of in landfills. However, to avoid
dioxin production, no chlorinated plastic bags (and preferably no other chlorinated
compounds) should be introduced into the incinerator, and should therefore not be used
for packaging waste before its incinerationl. WHO guidelines for emissions from health
care waste incinerators are included in Annex 3.
According to a group known as Health Care without Harm Coalition, "Only about 10-
15% of hospital waste is infectious waste; the rest is made up of paper, plastics, food,
metal, glass, wood, and other materials. Only about 2% of total hospital waste (the
pathological waste-body parts and body fluids) needs to be incinerated to protect public
health, according to the U. S. Centers for Disease Control. Yet some hospitals routinely
incinerate 75-100% of their waste, a needlessly expensive way to dispose of waste. The
Health Care without Harm Coalition recognizes the Centers for Disease Control's
9 Source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999
10 Source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
6



recommendation of incineration for the treatment of pathological waste (body parts and
body fluids) but opposes its use for the other 98% of the medical waste stream.'"
Combustion Control
In an analysis of 169 municipal waste combustors conducted by ASME, 80 percent
showed no statistically significant relationship between vinyl input and dioxin output,
even when waste combustors were "spiked" with chlorine-based plastics, such as vinyl.
ASME found that facility design and operation -- not waste content control -- are the best
12
ways to limit dioxin emissions from waste combustors' . Further, upon review of a
number of studies regarding the relationship between the chlorine content of waste and
dioxin emissions, the EPA concluded in its Medical Waste Incinerator Rule: "At this
point, the effectiveness of a pollution prevention program directed at reducing
dioxin/furan emissions through shifting the waste composition from chlorinate plastics to
nonchlorinated polymers would be questionable. 13"
According to a letter to the New England Journal of Medicine from two University of
North Carolina research scientists, no known human health effects have resulted from
incinerator-generated dioxin. More importantly, while the dioxin compound 2,3,7,8-
TCDD has been linked to health effects in laboratory animals, medical waste incineration
is not a significant source of this compound. In fact, according to a 1995 study conducted
by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), 2,3,7,8-TCDD makes up less
than one-half percent of total MWI dioxin emissions.
Single-Chamber Incinerator
If a pyrolytic incinerator cannot be afforded, health-care waste may be incinerated in a
static-grate, single-chamber incinerator. This type of incinerator treats waste in batches;
loading and de-ashing operations are performed manually. The combustion is initiated
by addition of fuel and should then continue unaided. Air inflow is usually based on
natural ventilation from the oven mouth to the chimney; if this is inadequate, however, it
may be assisted by mechanical ventilation. Regular removal of soot and slag is
14
essential
"1 Rochester Committee for Scientific Information, Bulletin #324, October 1999, Medical Waste Disposal,
by Joanne Mitchell
12 American Society of Mechanical Engineers, "The relationship between chlorine in the waste streams and
dioxin emissions from waste combustor stacks " CRTD Vol. 36, 1995.
13 U.S. Federal Register, Volume 61, No. 120, June 20, 1996.
U.S. Federal Register, Volume 62, pg 48347, September 15, 1997.
14 ibid.
7



On-Site Treatment of Wastewater
Many hospitals, in particular those that are not connected to any municipal treatment
plant, have their own sewage treatment plants. Efficient "package" treatment plants,
approximately the size of a shipping container, are available from a variety of vendors.
These containerized units can be set into operation with a minimum of cost and site
preparation. The unit chosen should provide at a minimum secondary treatment with
disinfection of effluent.
Efficient on-site treatment of hospital sewage should include the following operations:
*  Primary treatment
*  Secondary biological purification. Most helminths will settle in the sludge
resulting from secondary purnfication, together with 90-95% of bacteria and a
significant percentage of viruses; the secondary effluent will thus be almost free
of helminths, but will still include infective concentrations of bacteria and viruses.
*  Tertiary treatment. The secondary effluent will probably contain at least 20
mg/litre suspended organic matter, which is too high for efficient chlorine
disinfection. It should therefore be subjected to a tertiary treatment, such as
lagooning; if no space is available for creating a lagoon, rapid sand filtration may
be substituted to produce a tertiary effluent with a much reduced content of
suspended organic matter (<10mg/litre).
*  Chlorine disinfection. To achieve pathogen concentrations comparable to those
found in natural waters, the tertiary effluent will be subjected to chlorine
disinfection to the breakpoint. This may be done with chlonne dioxide (which is
the most efficient), sodium hypochlorite, or chlorine gas. Another option is
ultraviolet light disinfection. Disinfection of the effluents is particularly
important if they are discharged into coastal waters close to shellfish habitats,
especially if local people are in the habit of eating raw shellfish15.
Sewage Sludge Treatment
The sludge from the sewage treatment plant requires anaerobic digestion to ensure
thermal elimination of most pathogens. Alternatively, it may be dried in natural drying
beds and then incinerated together with solid infectious health-care waste. On-site
treatment of hospital sewage will produce a sludge that contains high concentrations of
1 6
helminths and other pathogens
15 Source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
16 ibid.
8



Reuse of Wastewater and Sludge in Agriculture and Aquaculture
According to the relevant WHO guidelines (Mara & Cairncross, 1989), the treated
wastewater should contain no more than one helminth egg per litre and no more than
1000 faecal coliforms per 100 ml if it is to be used for unrestricted irrigation. It is
essential that the treated sludge contains no more than one helminth egg per kilogram and
no more than 1000 faecal coliforms per 100 g. The sludge should be applied to fields in
trenches and then covered with soill .
'7 ibid.
9



Chapter 5
Options for Treatment and Disposal of Health Care Waste in
Tonga
Choice of Health Care Waste Treatment Technologies
Vaiola Hospital generates the following types of health care wastes that must be treated
and disposed:
*  Infectious waste
*  Anatomical waste
*  Sharps
*  Pharmaceutical waste
*  Chemical waste
In the future radioactive waste and cytotoxic waste may be generated at the facility.
Disposal options should be chosen on the basis of:
* suitability of treatment technology to the particular type of health care waste (see
table below);
* acceptable impacts to human health and the environment;
* availability of the technology and maintenance services in Tonga;
* capital cost, maintenance and training required for each treatment and disposal
technology, and overall cost effectiveness.
An overview of disposal or treatment methods for different categories of health care
wastes is presented in Table 1. Among these options, both autoclaving and incineration
require exact and precise operation and maintenance. The operators of these machines
must be trained continuously. The equipment must be maintained and repairs must be
made as required.
Autoclaving is used by medical waste generators to disinfect waste and remove the
potential hazard to waste handlers. This is a primary treatment and is usually followed by
secondary treatment including landfilling, shredding and incineration. Steam sterilizers
should be equipped to continuously monitor and record temperature and pressure during
the entire length of each cycle.
When doctors operate, anatomical waste (body parts) could end up in the waste stream.
Anatomical wastes require special attention. The U.S. EPA does not allow for the
discharge of anatomical waste to landfills due to aesthetic reasons. Therefore, anatomical
waste is incinerated or steam sterilized following shredding or grinding.
1



Systems that pre-shred before treatment risk contaminating the equipment and the
atmosphere, increasing risk to the operators, maintenance and waste management staff.
Shredders have high capital and maintenance costs, and are not currently recommended
for use in developing countries by WHO.
Only pyrolytic incineration is considered by WHO as a suitable treatment option for all
the waste types currently generated by MOH facilities. The incinerator ash can be
disposed in a landfill. However, use of incineration, with its inherent costs, can be
minimized if the various wastes are segregated, and given treatment and disposal as
appropriate for those wastes, such as autoclaving and landfilling as detailed in the
following table.
The hazardous health care waste disposal problem could be rectified by use of a
combination of treatment and disposal technologies. These include the existing
incineration facilities (operated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Quarantine
and Quality Management Division), the hospital wet thermal treatment system
(autoclave), as well as two planned sanitary landfill facilities. The MOH should plan to
make use of the most cost-effective suitable waste treatment technology, or combination
of technologies, when they develop their Health Care Waste Management Plan.
Cost of Treatment and Disposal Options
Several treatment options were considered and the annual cost of these options were
reviewed to see what would be the most viable option for Tonga. These cost
comparisons are shown in the Table 2 below. As is shown, a combination of treatment
options which include using the existing the existing incineration facilities (operated by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Quarantine and Quality Management
Division), the hospital wet thermal treatment system (autoclave), as well as two planned
sanitary landfill facilities would have the lowest cost even considering the different fee
rates for using the incinerator.
2



Table 1: Overview of Disposal or Treatment Methods Suitable for Different Categories of Health Care Wastes*
Technology or    Infectious    Anatomical      Sharps     Pharmaceutical   Cytotoxic    Chemical      Radioactive
method          waste          waste                       waste          Waste        waste         waste
Incinerator        yes           yes          yes             yes            no          yes         Low level
infectious waste
Chemical          yes            no           yes            no             no           no            no
disinfection                             __     __
Wet thermal        yes            no           yes            no             no           no             no
(autoclave)
Microwave          yes            no           yes            no             no           no            no
Safe burial on      yes           yes           yes      Small quantities     no         Small           no
hospital grounds                                                                         quantities
Sanitary landfill    yes           no            no       Small quantities     no           no     I_no
Dicharge to        no             no           no       Small quantities     no           no         Low level
sewer                                                                                             liquid waste
*from Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999



Table 2: Cost Comparison, Treatment Options* (in US$)
Technology     Capital Cost  Comments                      15-year       Annual        Annual         Annual      Annual     Total Annual
Option                                                    annualized     Training      Maintenance    operator cost transport  Cost
equipmentcot
costs                                                   MOH
personnel
cost
Microwave      $50,000      Add $50,000 for shredder.     $6,666         $3,000        $7,500         $2,500      $10,800    $30,466
Steam sterilizer  $75,000   Add $100,000 for shredder (vendor $11,666    $3,000        $7,500         $2,500      $10,800    $35,466
does not recommend shredder for
developing countries, since repair
cost is typically $15,000/visit).                                        _
ChemClave      $107,000     Not suitable for anatomic waste.  $7,133     $3,000        $7,500         $2,500      $10,800    $30,933
Autoclave      $45,000      Add $10,000 for waste package,  $3,866       $3,000        $7,500         $2,500      $10,800    $27,666
$3,000 install .
Incinerator    $100,000     fuel tank, pad, install costs  $6,666        $3,000        $7,500         $2,500      $10,800    $30,766
included @$40,000 fuel cost/year
$300
Use existing   transport    Incinerator fees are $1,300 Based  none     Included in    Included in    Included in  $10,800
Quarantine     vehicle      on unsegregated waste @ $ 40/                Quarantine    Quarantine     Quarantine             $12,100
incinerator,   included in  kilo, 9 kilos/day, 360 days.                 Department    Department     Department
existing       annual       Quarantine Department charges are           fee            fee           fee
autoclaves and  transport   likely to increase (see below).
landfil**      cost at left
Use existing   included in  Incinerator fees are $2,600 Based  none     Included in    Included in    Included in  $10,800   $13,400
Quarantine     annual       on unsegregated waste @ $.80/                Quarantine    Quarantine     Quarantine
incinerator,   transport    kilo, 9 kilos/day, 360 days.                 Department    Department     Department
existing       cost at left                                             fee            fee           fee
autoclaves and
landfill**



Use existing       included in   Incinerator fees are $3,300 Based    none              Included in      Included in      Included in     $10,800     $14,100
Quarantine         annual         on unsegregated waste @ $1.02/                        Quarantine       Quarantine       Quarantine
incinerator,      transport       kilo, 9 kilos/day, 360 days.                         Department        Department       Department
existing           cost at left                                                        fee               fee              fee
autoclaves and
landfill**
Use existing       included in   Incinerator fees are $650- Based     none              Included in      Included in      Included in     $10,800     $11,450
Quarantine        annual          on segregated waste @ $.40/ kilo,                     Quarantine       Quarantine       Quarantine
incinerator,      transport      4 5 kilos/day, 360 days.                              Department        Department       Department
existing          cost at left    Quarantine Department charges are                     fee              fee              fee
autoclaves and                    likely to increase (see below).
landfill**
Use existing       included in   Incinerator fees are $1,300 Based    none              Included in      Included in      Included in     $10,800     $12,100
Quarantine         annual         on segregated waste @ $.801 kilo,                     Quarantine       Quarantine       Quarantine
incinerator,      transport      4.5 kilos/day, 360 days.                              Department        Department       Department
existing           cost at left                                                        fee               fee              fee
autoclaves and
landfill**
Use existing       included in   Incinerator fees are $1,650 Based    none              Included in      Included in      Included in    $10,800      $12,450
Quarantine         annual         on segregated waste @ $1.02/ kilo,                    Quarantine       Quarantine       Quarantine
incinerator,       transport     4.5 kilos/day, 360 days.                               Department       Department       Department
existing          cost at left                                                         fee               fee              fee
autoclaves and
landfill **
* assumed throughput about 25 lbs/batch, available units nearest required size, U S vendor quotes
** costs of operating the autoclaves are already included in the MOH's recurrent budget Waste could be transferred to the landfill using vehicles transfemng waste to incinerator at little additional
cost If a fee is charged for using landfill this could amount to additional costs MOH personnel costs are also covered in the current health care budget The vehicle will be purchased under the project



Preferred Treatment Option
The incineration facility provided by AusAid and operated by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry, Quarantine and Quality Management Division18 at the Nuku'olofa wharf
has been used by Vaiola Hospital in the past. According to hospital staff this practice was
discontinued because of high cost of disposing all hospital waste (infectious or otherwise)
without segregating infectious from general waste, amounting to about 40 kg per day
compared to 9 kg or less of infectious waste. As discussed above, costs of this option
could be minimized by segregation of wastes, and/or use of other treatment and disposal
options. The Quarantine incineration unit has been in operation since 1993, and is
routinely used to decontaminate waste from cruise ships, yachts and aircraft.
The Quarantine incinerator is a large two-chamber unit that is operated at 8000C,
although the unit is reported to be capable of operation at 1200°C. This is the two
chambered pyrolytic incineration technology WHO finds acceptable because air
emissions are minimized by the burn temperature, residence time, and the secondary
combustion chamber. This incinerator, if operated properly, should meet the WHO and
EPA guidelines for existing small units. It should be born in mind that the estimated
volume of infectious waste generated by the Vaiola Hospital is on the order of 18 pounds
(9 kilograms) per day.
The Quarantine incinerator was not operational at the time of the October 2002 visit,
because the burners required replacements. New burners from New Zealand for the
incinerator have been obtained and the unit is again operational.
Fleming Electrics, of Tonga, provides the Quarantine and Quality Management Division
with maintenance and training services for the incinerator.
Hygiene in the incinerator building is in need of improvement, especially if the facility
were to be used for infectious health care waste disposal.
In order to minimize cost of treatment, the wastes could be segregated, in order to reduce
volume. Different waste types could be given appropriate treatment with cost or other
considerations in mind. The Ministry of Health can use a combination of treatment
options suitable to each waste type. For example:
the volume of waste requiring treatment as infectious or hazardous would be greatly
reduced if the wastes were segregated at the points of generation, through disposal in
designated containers. This would lessen the cost of treatment, for instance cost of
incineration, which is charged by Quarantine Division by weight;
1 An aid program administered by the Secretariat of the Pacific Community will supply the Quarantine and
Quality Management Division with an additional two small incineration units intended for use on the
islands of 'Eua and Ha'apai. The one cubic-meter units are manufactured of stainless steel in Australia and
operate at 600°C. The Ministry of Health hospitals on these two islands could make use of these facilities
for disposal of segregated infectious waste
1



  the existing hospital autoclave could be used for treatment of infectious waste and
sharps. These wastes would then be disposed in a proper landfill facility, minimizing
wastes disposed by incineration and saving cost of incineration. The autoclave (wet
thermal treatment) is not suitable for the other types of wastes listed above'9;
  proper landfilling could be used for some of the segregated wastes, either on site or
at the new engineered landfill to be built. Landfilling is not suitable for anatomical
waste (except on the hospital premises), sharps, cytotoxic waste, chemical or
radioactive waste.20
There is a treatment/disposal vendor available, that is the Quarantine Department's
incinerator facility at the wharf, located a short distance from the hospital. The
Quarantine and Quality Management Division has already made the investment in this
unit, and has personnel trained in its operation and maintenance. Private maintenance and
training services are locally available, and used by the Quarantine Division.
The 40 cents per kilo charged for use of the incinerator has not proved adequate to pay
for operation and maintenance costs. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry plans to
increase the usage fees. The impact of various options of fee increase and transport
options (MOH staff or private contractor) on the costs of using the Quarantine incinerator
are shown in the Table 3.
Private Contractor Cost Versus MOH Personnel for Health Care Waste Transport
A comparison of the recurrent costs for use of the Quarantine incinerator, with MOH
personnel and vehicle for transport, versus a private waste disposal firm is difficult to
ascertain. There are at most two small private clinics that could be potential customers
for a specialized health care waste transport service, besides the Viaola Hospital. A
private contractor would have the same health care waste transport vehicle capital and
maintenance costs, plus administrative costs for running the business. Given the limited
(hospital and possibly two clinics) clientele, there would not be full-time use of personnel
or equipment. Use of a health care waste transport vehicle for other purposes would not
be acceptable. MOH personnel have other duties, and waste collection and transport is
incidental to these other duties.
Recurrent costs for the option of using a dedicated MOH vehicle and MOH staff for
transporting health carte waste, with landfilling and use of the Quarantine incinerator for
infectious waste are shown in the table below.
t9 Chapter 9, Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
20 Chapter 9, Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999
2



Table 3: Capital and Recurrent Waste Transport/Disposal Costs (in $US)
MOH transport              Contractor transport
Capital cost, vehicle           $20,000                    $20,000
10-year depreciation
Personnel                       MOH personnel are already  Loaded rates, including profit,
assigned to collect and    4 hours/day
transport health care waste
Driver/collector 4hrs/day       $1,500                     $2,000
Administrator 4hrs/day          $1,700                     $3,500
Vehicle maintenance             $5,000/year                $5,000/year
Vehicle fuel, oil, disinfectant  $600/year                 $600/year
Annual Cost                     $10,800                    $13,100
Landfill charges                unknown                     Unkown
Incinerator use at $.40/kilo, all  $1,300/year based on 9  $1,300
infectious waste, no segregation of  kilos/day x 360 days
anatomic waste
Incinerator use at $ 80/kilo, all  $2,600/year             $2,600
infectious waste
Incinerator use at $1.02/kilo, all  $3,300/year            $3,300
infectious waste
Total Annual Cost, all infectious  $14,100                 $16,400
waste (9kilos/day @$1.02/kilo
incineration charge)
Total annual cost, segregated   $12,450                    $14,750
anatomnic waste only
(4.5 kilos/day @ $1.02/kilo
incineration charge)
Note cost of off-site incineration in the U S vanes from $ 32 - $1 02 (vendor data)
Reduction of cost to the hospital could be achieved if infectious wastes were segregated
from the general domestic health care waste, reducing the volume and weight of
infectious waste. A further reduction of cost for the hospital would be to segregate
anatomical waste for incineration, and use the autoclave for treatment of other infectious
waste, with subsequent disposal in the sanitary landfill when it becomes available (see
below). This combination of options is the most cost-effective means of safely disposing
of infectious health care waste. Incineration is the only acceptable (WHO) means of
treating anatomical waste that is reasonably available in Tonga (see Table 2).
A memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Health and the Quarantine and
Quality Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will be
developed by Year 2 of the project to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of the
two Ministries in health care waste disposal and to document the agreements between the
two parties in terms of costs of disposal etc.. A joint monitoring plan will be part of this
MOU. The MOU will be implemented in the last three years of the project.
Sanitary Landrill Development Programs
Sanitary landfill development projects are planned on the Islands of Tongatapu and
Vava'u. Aus AID is prepared with a schedule for implementation of a sanitary landfill
3



project for Tongatapu. The landfill will be developed in stages, and will have provisions
for waste segregation and recycling.
The EU aid organization is preparing a sanitary landfill project for the island of Vava'u.
The project is ready for implementation. A site has been selected, groundwater
monitoring wells have been installed, and the landfill has been designed. The project
cannot progress any further until the Government of Tonga purchases the land from a
private owner, and there is some dispute over price. An alternative site may have to be
selected. Once the site is finalized, a construction contract could be tendered in a month.
If another site is selected, a detailed design for the new site will have to be made, and
construction could start within three months of land purchase. Construction time is
estimated at six to eight months.
The plans include access road improvements and purchase of a front-end loader/tractor
for covering the waste lifts. The landfill will include an asphalt liner, as this is an
impervious material that is locally available. The plan includes a leachate collection
system, a collection/evaporation pond, and spray of leachate onto the top of the fill.
Use of these new facilities for disposal of health care wastes (after appropriate treatment)
would reduce the human health and environmental hazards and potential damage from
the current practice of inappropriate disposal in open dumps. The open dumps will
remain as hazards to human health and the environment until they are adequately
remediated and reclaimed.
4



Chapter 6
Recommendations
*  A Health Care Waste Management Policy should be developed by the Ministry
of Health. This would include a legal package (see below). An accelerated
program of development and implementation should be undertaken under the
technical assistance during project implementation (see section on Health Care
Waste Management Policy below).
* A complete Health Care Waste Management Plan, to include all Ministry of
Health and private health care operations in Tonga should be developed (see
details below). The plan should be developed in conjunction with any other
ministry involved in health care waste management such as Ministry of
Agriculture, Quarantine Service, and the Department of Environment. An
accelerated program of development and implementation should be undertaken
under the technical assistance during project implementation (see section on
Health Care Waste Management Plan below)..
* The Ministry of Health should have a dedicated budget for health care waste
management to include staff training, equipment capital and operations and
maintenance costs, and other recurrent costs.
* Section 3 of the Vaiola Hospital Infection Control Manual, under Blood and Body
Substance Precautions, specifies personnel protective equipment and procedures
for spills of blood and body fluids. This section should be expanded to include all
Ministry of Health health care waste handlers (including transporters), as well as
transportation spills. The precautions should be implemented without delay. The
practice of bending infectious sharps prior to disinfection should be discontinued
(Prnce Ngu Hospital).
* Proper disposal of segregated infectious health care waste should be implemented
without delay, and proper disposal practices implemented using available options,
such as: autoclave, landfill and existing incineration facilities maintained by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Quarantine and Quality Management
Division.
* A modem sanitary wastewater treatment systems should be installed at Vaiola
hospital. The MOH should evaluate use of disinfected effluent for irrigation, and
sanitary composting of sludge for use as soil amendment (see Annex 6 for
specifications).
A plan including activities, monitoring and evaluation indicators and the timeline for
implementing these recommendations under the project is in Table 4.
5



Table 4: Proposed Implementation Plan
Outputs                                   Activities                         Monitoring and evaluation         Implementation Period
indicators
Improved capacity of the Ministry of  Develop a National Health Care Waste Management Policy  olicy Approval by Ministry of Health  Year I
Health to plan for management of  and legislative package                            Management structure approved by
health care waste in an environmentally                                              Ministry of Health
sustainable manner
Improved capacity of the Ministry of  Develop a National Health Care Waste Management Plan  Plan approval by Ministry of Health (all Year I - 3
Health to manage health care waste in  pecific to each health care facility outlining procedures and  facilities)
an environmentally sustainable manner guidelines, waste definition and charactenzation, segregation
echniques, containment and storage practices, collection and  pproved budgets for implementation of
ransport, treatment and disposal, and emergency procedures  ealth Care Waste Management Plans
n case of contamination and spills
eveloped MOU
Ixecuted MOU
Develop a Memorandum of Understanding between MOH                                      Year 2
ad Quarantine Department for use of incinerator on a fee                               Year 3-5
ass
_______________________  asis



Outputs                                   Activities                        Monitoring and evaluation         Implementation Period
indicators
Expenditures to enable the Ministry of I Procure appropnate waste containers          I Containers procured and in use  Year 2
Health to manage health care waste in
an environmentally sustainable manner
2 vehicle in use and decontaminated
. obtain appropnate dedicated vehicle for HCW transport  daily
3. Vendors qualified and selected
Request WWT vendor proposals
elect treatment equipment for Wastewater             WT plant contracted
Procure wastewater treatment plant, Vaiola Hospital  Civil works and hardware in place
Installation completed
WWT plant operations monitonng
shows operation within agreed limits
Train WWT plant operator(s)
mprovement in personnel skills and  Train health personnel in disposal of clinical waste  Training approved and completed  Year 2 - 3
zxpenence in managing health care
waste



Development of the Health Care Waste Management Policy
1.    Essential elements of a National Health Care Waste Management Policy:
The following are the key elements of national health care waste management policy21.
Comprehensive System
* Assignment of responsibilities for waste management
* Allocation of sufficient resources
* Waste minimization, including purchasing policies and stock management practices
* Segregation of waste into sharps, non-sharps infectious waste and non-infectious waste
* Implementation of safe handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal options
* Tracking of waste production and waste destination
Awareness and Training
* Awareness raising of all staff about risks related to sharps and other infectious wastes
* Training of health-care personnel regarding segregation practices
* Training of waste workers regarding safe handling, storage and operation and maintenance
of treatment technologies
* Display of written instructions for personnel
Selection of Options
* Identification of available centralized waste management and disposal resources
* Choice of sustainable management and disposal options, according to:
- Affordability
- Environment-friendliness
- Efficiency
- Worker's safety
- Prevention of the re-use of disposable medical equipment (e.g. syringes)
- Social acceptability
Legal, Regulatory and Policy Aspects
National legislation is the basis for improving health-care waste practices in any country. It
establishes legal controls and permits the national agency responsible for the disposal of health-
care waste, usually the ministry of health, to apply pressure for their implementation. The
ministry of environment or national environmental protection agency may also be involved; there
should be a clear designation of responsibilities
22
before the law is enacted
21 Source: WHO, Decision-Making Guide for Management of Health Care Wastes
3



International Agreements and Underlying Legislative and Regulatory Principles
International agreement has been reached on a number of underlying principles that govern
either public health or safe management of hazardous waste. These principles-outlined below-
should be taken into consideration when national legislation or regulations governing healthcare
waste management are formulated:
The Basel Conventioni
The Basel Convention, signed by more than 100 countries, concerns transboundary movements
of hazardous waste; it is also applicable to health-care waste. Countries that signed the
Convention accepted the principle that the only legitimate transboundary shipments of hazardous
waste are exports from countries that lack the facilities or
expertise to dispose safely of certain wastes to other countries that have both facilities and
expertise. Exported waste should be labelled according to the UN recommended standards.
"Polluter Pays" Principle
The "polluter pays" pnnciple implies that all producers of waste are legally and financially
responsible for the safe and environmentally sound disposal of the waste they produce. This
principle also attempts to assign liability to the party that causes damage.
"Precauctionary" Principle
The "precautionary" principle is a key principle governing health and safety protection. When
the magnitude of a particular risk is uncertain, it should be assumed that this risk is significant,
and measures to protect health and safety should be designed accordingly.
"Duty of Care" Principle
The "duty of care" principle stipulates that any person handling or managing hazardous
substances or related equipment is ethically responsible for using the utmost care in that task.
"Proximity" Principle
The "proximity" principle recommends that treatment and disposal of hazardous waste take place
at the closest possible location to its source in order to minimize the risks involved in its
transport. According to a similar principle, any community should recycle or dispose of the
waste it produces, inside its own territorial limits.
Legal Package
The law should be complemented by a policy document, and by technical guidelines developed
for implementation of the law. This legal "package" should specify regulations on treatment for
different waste categories, segregation, collection, storage, handling, disposal, and transport of
waste, responsibilities, and training requirements; it should take into account the resources and
facilities available in the country concerned and any cultural aspects of waste-handling. A
22 Legal section source: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999.
4



national law on health-care waste management may stand alone or may be part of more
comprehensive legislation such as the following:
* law on management of hazardous wastes: application to health-care waste should be
explicitly stated;
* law on hospital hygiene and infection control: a specific chapter or article should be
devoted to health-care waste.
The law should include the following:
* a clear definition of hazardous health-care waste and of its various categories;
* a precise indication of the legal obligations of the health-care waste producer regarding
safe handling and disposal;
* specifications for record-keeping and reporting;
* specifications for an inspection system to ensure enforcement of the law, and for
penalties to be imposed for contravention;
* designation of courts responsible for handling disputes arising from enforcement of or
noncompliance with the law.
In addition, hospitals should be run, and health-care waste disposed of, in accordance with all
other relevant national legislation, such as regulations pertaining to:
* waste in general;
* effects on public health and the environment;
* air quality;
* prevention and control of infectious disease;
* management of radioactive materials.
2.    Policy Document and Technical Guidelines
The policy document should outline the rationale for the legislation, plus national goals and the
key steps essential to the achievement of these goals. It may contain the following:
*  descriptions of the health and safety risks resulting from mismanagement of health-care
waste;
*  reasons for sound and safe health-care waste management practices in health-care
establishments;
*  listing of approved methods of treatment and disposal for each waste category;
* warning against unsafe practices, such as disposing of hazardous health-care waste in
municipal landfills;
*  management responsibilities within and outside health-care establishments;
* assessment of the costs of health-care waste management.
* key steps of health-care waste management: minimization, separation, identification,
handling, treatment, and final disposal of waste; technical specifications for the
implementation of each step should be described in separate technical guidelines;
* record-keeping and documentation;
* training requirements;
* rules governing the protection of workers' health and safety.
5



The technical guidelines associated with the legislation should be practical and directly
applicable. They should include the following specifications, with sufficient detail to ensure that
safe practices are observed and appropriate standards achieved:
*  legal framework covering safe management of health-care waste, hospital hygiene, and
occupational health and safety (limits of emission of atmospheric pollutants and measures
for protection of water resources may be addressed here or in the other national
guidelines);
*  the responsibilities of public health authorities, of the national environmental protection
body, of the heads of health-care establishments, of the scattered and smaller producers
of health-care waste; and of the heads of any private or public waste-disposal agencies
involved;
* safe practices for waste minimization;
* separation, handling, storage, and transport of health-care waste;
* recommended treatment and disposal methods for each category of health-care waste and
for wastewater.
For ease of application, the definitions of health-care waste categories included in the law should
be repeated in the technical guidelines. Gradual implementation of the law is recommended in
preference to any attempt to introduce all measures simultaneously, particularly where existing
practices are inadequate.
Development of a Health Care Waste Management Plan
The following is a generalized Health Care Waste Management Plan23. The Waste Management
Plan shall be drafted by the Waste Management Office for approval by the Waste Management
Team, and shall be based on internationally recognized environment management standards such
as the ISO 14000 series.
The Waste Management Plan should include:
(a) a plan of the hospital showing the waste disposal points for every ward and department,
indicating whether each point is for hazardous waste or non-hazardous waste, and
showing the sites of the central storage facility for hazardous waste and the central
storage facility for non-hazardous waste;
(b) details of the types, numbers and estimated costs of containers, plastic bags and trolleys
required annually;
(c) time-tables including frequency of waste collection from each ward and department;
(d) duties and responsibilities for each of the different categories of hospital staff members
who will generate health care waste and be involved in the management of the waste;
(e) an estimate of the number of staff members required for waste collection;
(e) procedures for the management of wastes requiring special treatment such as autoclaving
before final disposal;
23 Sources: Safe Management of Wastes from Health Care Activities, WHO, 1999; and Hospital Waste
Management Rules 2000, Draft, Hospital Waste Management Committee, Pakistan Environmental Protection
Council
6



(f) contingency plans for storage or disposal of hazardous waste in the event of breakdown
of incinerator, or of maintenance or collection arrangements;
(g) training courses and programs; and
(h) emergency procedures.
The representatives of the Ministry of Health responsible for the collection and disposal of waste
from the hospital and the Ministry of Agriculture, Quarantine Service and the Department of
Environment shall be consulted in drafting and finalization of the Waste Management Plan.
The Waste Management Plan shall be regularly monitored, reviewed, revised and updated by the
Waste Management Team as and when necessary.
Management Structure
Within the current management structure of the Ministry of Health, at the hospital level health
care waste management will be the responsibility of:
* Medical Superintendent
* Chief Health Inspector
* Chief Medical Officer
A new position of Waste Management Officer will be initiated.
At the Health Facility level the Public Health Nurse and the Health Officer will be responsible
for health care waste management.
During the technical assistance for waste management planning, responsibilities will be assigned
to the above personnel. The following section outlines the typical duties for health care waste
management, using general staff titles.
Management Responsibilities
The head of the hospital should form a waste management team to develop a waste management
plan. The team should have the following members:
* Head of Hospital (as chairperson)
* Heads of Hospital Departments
* Infection Control Officer
* Chief Pharmacist
* Radiation Officer
* Matron (or Senior Nursing Officer)
* Hospital Manager
* Hospital Engineer
* Financial Controller
* Waste Management Officer (if already designated).
Head of Hospital
The Head of Hospital is responsible for the following tasks:
7



* Forming a waste management team to develop a written waste management plan for the
hospital. The plan should clearly define the duties and responsibilities of all members of
staff, both clinical and non-clinical, in respect of the handling of health-care waste, and
establish lines of accountability.
* Designating a Waste Management Officer (WMO) to supervise and coordinate the waste
management plan. The Head of Hospital retains overall responsibility for ensuring that
health-care and other wastes are disposed of in accordance with national guidelines.
* Keeping the management plan up to date.
* Allocating sufficient financial and personnel resources to ensure efficient operation of the
plan. For example, sufficient staff should be assigned to the Waste Management Officer
to ensure efficient operation of the waste management plan.
* Ensuring that monitoring procedures are incorporated in the plan. The efficiency and
effectiveness of the disposal system should be monitored so that the system can be
updated and improved when necessary.
* Immediately appointing a successor in the event of personnel leaving key positions in the
waste management team (or temporarily assigning responsibility to another staff member
until a successor can be appointed).
*  Ensuring adequate training for key staff members and designating the staff responsible
for coordinating and implementing training courses.
Waste Management Officer (WMO)
The WMO is responsible for the day-to-day operation and monitoring of the waste management
system. It is therefore essential that he or she has direct access to all members of the hospital
staff. The WMO is directly responsible to the Head of Hospital. He or she should liaise with the
Infection Control Officer, the Chief Pharmacist, and the
Radiation Officer in order to become familiar with the correct procedures for handling and
disposing of pathological, pharmaceutical, chemical, and radioactive wastes.
In the area of waste collection, the WMO should:
* control internal collection of waste containers and their transport to the central waste
storage facility of the hospital on a daily basis;
* liaise with the Supplies Department to ensure that an appropriate range of bags and
containers for health-care waste, protective clothing, and collection trolleys are available
at all times;
* ensure that hospital attendants and ancillary staff immediately replace used bags and
containers with the correct new bags or containers;
* directly supervise hospital attendants and ancillary workers assigned to collect and
transport health-care waste.
Concerning waste storage, the WMO should:
* ensure the correct use of the central storage facility for health-care waste, which should
be kept locked but should always be accessible to authorized hospital staff;
* prevent all unsupervised dumping of waste containers on the hospital grounds.
To supervise collection and disposal of the waste, the WMO should:
8



* coordinate and monitor all waste disposal operations;
* monitor methods of transportation of wastes both on- and off-site and ensure that wastes
collected from the hospital are transported by an appropriate vehicle to the designated
treatment and disposal site;
* ensure that waste is not stored for longer than specified in the guidelines and that the
transport organization (which may be the local authority or a private contractor) collects
the waste with the required frequency.
For staff training and information, the WMO should:
* liaise with the Matron (or Senior Nursing Officer) and the Hospital Manager to ensure
that the nursing staff and medical assistants are aware of their own responsibilities for
segregation and storage of waste and that the responsibilities of hospital attendants and
ancillary staff are limited to the handling and transport of sealed waste bags and
containers;
* liaise with Department Heads to ensure that all doctors and other qualified clinical staff
are aware of their own responsibilities regarding segregation and storage of waste and
that the responsibilities of hospital attendants and ancillary staff are limited to the
handling and transport of sealed bags and containers;
* ensure that hospital attendants and ancillary staff are not involved in waste segregation
and that they handle only waste bags and containers that have been sealed in the correct
manner.
For incident management and control the WMO should:
* ensure that written emergency procedures are available, that they are in place at all times,
and that personnel are aware of the action to be taken in the event of an emergency;
* investigate and review any reported incidents concerning the handling of health-care
waste.
Department Heads
Department Heads are responsible for the segregation, storage, and disposal of waste generated
in their departments. They should:
* ensure that all doctors, nurses, and clinical and non-clinical professional staff in their
departments are aware of the segregation and storage procedures and that all personnel
comply with the highest standards;
* continuously liaise with the WMO to monitor working practices for failures or mistakes;
* ensure that key staff members in their departments are given training in waste segregation
and disposal procedures;
* encourage medical and nursing staff to be vigilant so as to ensure that hospital attendants
and ancillary staff follow correct procedures at all times.
Matron and Hospital Manager
9



The Matron (or Senior Nursing Officer) and the Hospital Manager are responsible for training
nursing staff, medical assistants, hospital attendants, and ancillary staff in the correct procedures
for segregation, storage, transport, and disposal of waste. They should therefore:
* liaise with the WMO and the advisers (Infection Control Officer, Chief Pharmacist, and
Radiation Officer) to maintain the highest standards;
* participate in staff introduction to, and continuous training in, the handling and disposal
of health-care waste;
* liaise with Department Heads to ensure coordination of training activities, other waste
management issues specific to particular departments, etc.
Infection Control Officer
The Infection Control Officer should liaise with the WMO on a continuous basis and provide
advice concerning the control of infection and the standards of the waste disposal system. His or
her duties are to:
* identify training requirements according to staff grade and occupation;
* organize and supervise staff training courses on safe waste management;
* liaise with the Department Heads, the Matron, and the Hospital Manager
* to coordinate the training. The Infection Control Officer also has overall responsibility
for chemical disinfection, sound management of chemical stores, and chemical waste
* minimization.
Chief Pharmacist
The Chief Pharmacist is responsible for the sound management of pharmaceutical
stores and for pharmaceutical waste minimization. His or her duties are to:
* liaise with Department Heads, the WMO, the Matron, and the Hospital Manager, giving
advice, in accordance with the national policy and guidelines, on the appropriate
procedures for pharmaceutical waste disposal;
* coordinate continuous monitoring of procedures for the disposal of pharmaceutical waste;
* ensure that personnel involved in pharmaceutical waste handling and disposal receive
adequate training. The Chief Pharmacist also has the special responsibility of ensuring
* the safe utilization of genotoxic products and the safe management of genotoxic waste.
Radiation Officer
The duties and responsibilities of the Radiation Officer are the same as those of the
Pharmaceutical Officer but relate to radioactive waste.
Supply Officer
The Supply Officer should liaise with the WMO to ensure a continuous supply of the items
required for waste management (plastic bags and containers of the right quality, spare parts for
on-site health-care waste treatment equipment, etc.). These items should be ordered in good time
to ensure that they are always available, but accumulation of excessive stores should be avoided.
10



The Supply Officer should also investigate the possibility of purchasing environmentally friendly
products (e.g. PVC-free plastic items).
Hospital Engineer
The Hospital Engineer is responsible for installing and maintaining waste storage facilities and
handling equipment that comply with the specifications of the national guidelines. She or he is
also accountable for the adequate operation and maintenance of any on-site waste treatment
equipment and is responsible for the staff involved in waste treatment, ensuring that:
* staff receive training in the principles of waste disposal and are aware of their
responsibilities under the hospital waste management plan;
* staff operating on-site waste treatment facilities are trained in their operation and
maintenance.
Waste Segregation
Hazardous waste shall be separated from non-hazardous waste at the source, that is at the ward
bedside, operation theatre, laboratory, or any other room in the hospital where the waste is
generated, by the doctor, nurse, or other person generating the waste.
All disposal medical equipment and supplies including syringes, needles, plastic bottles, drips
and infusion bags shall be cut or broken and rendered non-reusable at the point of use by the
person using the same, or in case any such used equipment or supplies is found or comes to the
possession of any person, by such person.
All hazardous waste other than sharps, large quantities of pharmaceuticals, or chemicals, waste
with a high content of mercury or cadmium such as broken thermometers or used batteries, or
radioactive waste shall be placed in a suitable container made of metal or tough plastic, with a
pedal type or swing lid, lined with a strong yellow plastic bag. The bags shall be removed when
it is not more than three quarters full and sealed, preferably with self-locking plastic sealing tags
and not by stapling. Each bag shall be labeled, indicating date, point of production/ward/hospital,
quantity and description of waste, and prominently displaying the biohazard symbol. The bag
removed should be immediately replaced with a new one of the same type.
Sharps including the cut or broken syringes and needles shall be placed in metal or high-density
plastic containers resistant to penetration and leakage, designed so that items can be dropped in
using one hand, and no item can be removed. The containers shall be colored yellow and marked
"DANGER! CONTAMINATED SHARPS". The sharps container shall be closed when three
quarters full. If the sharp container is to be incinerated, it shall be placed in the yellow plastic bag
with the other hazardous waste.
Waste Types not Suitable for Incineration
The following waste types are not suitable for incineration, and should be segregated from the
hazardous infectious waste types to be incinerated:
* Pressurized gas containers such as aerosol cans.
*  Large amounts of reactive chemical waste.
11



* Silver salts and photographic or radiographic wastes.
* Halogenated plastics such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
* Waste with high mercury or cadmium content, such as broken thermometers.
* Used batteries, and lead-lined wooden panels.
* Sealed ampoules or ampoules containing heavy metals.
Large quantities of pharmaceutical waste shall be returned to the suppliers. Small quantities shall
be placed in a yellow plastic bag, preferably after being crushed,
where this can be done safely.
Waste with a high content of mercury or cadmium shall not be incinerated, but shall be placed in
chemical resistant containers and sent to specialized treatment facilities (such as sanitary
landfill).
Radioactive waste that must be stored to allow decay to background level shall be placed in a
plastic bag, in a large yellow container or drum. The container or drum shall be labeled, showing
the radionuclide's activity on a given date, and the period of storage required, and marked
'RADIOACTIVE WASTE', with the radiation symbol. Non-infectious radioactive waste that has
decayed to background level shall be placed in black plastic bags. Infectious radioactive waste
that has decayed to background level shall be placed in yellow plastic bags. High level and
relatively long half-life radionuclides shall be packaged and stored in accordance with
instructions of the original supplier under supervision of the Radiology Officer, and sent back to
the supplier for disposal.
Non-hazardous waste shall be placed in a suitable container lined with a black plastic bag.
Adequate numbers of non-hazardous waste containers shall be placed in all areas of the hospital
and notices affixed to encourage visitors to use them.
Waste Collection
Waste shall be collected in accordance with the schedules specified in the Waste
Management Plan.
Sanitary staff and sweepers shall, when handling waste, wear protective clothing at all times
including face masks, industrial aprons, leg protectors, industrial boots and disposable or heavy
duty gloves, as required.
Sanitary staff and sweepers shall ensure that:
(a) waste is collected at least daily, but more often if necessary;
(b) all bags are labeled before removal, indicating the point of production, ward and
hospital, and contents;
(c) bags and containers which are removed are immediately replaced with new ones of
the same type; and
(d) where a waste bag is removed from a container, the container is properly cleaned
before a new bag is fitted therein.
12



Waste Storage
A separate central storage facility shall be provided for yellow-bagged waste, with a sign
prominently displaying the biohazard symbol and clearly stating that the facility stores hazardous
waste.
The designated central storage facility shall:
(a) be located within the hospital premises close to the incinerator, if installed, but away
from food storage or food preparation areas;
(b) be large enough to contain all the hazardous waste produced by the hospital, with spare
capacity to cater for collection or incinerator breakdowns;
(b) be easy to clean and disinfect, with an impermeable base, plentiful water supply and good
drainage, lighting and ventilation;
(d) have adequate cleaning equipment, protective clothing and waste bags and containers
located nearby; and
(e) be easily accessible to collection vehicles and authorized staff, but totally enclosed and
secure from unauthorized access, and especially inaccessible to animals, insects and
birds.
No materials other than yellow-bagged waste shall be stored in the central storage facility.
No waste shall be stored at the central storage facility for more than 24 hours. Provided that if in
an emergency infectious waste is required to be stored for more than 24 hours, it shall be
refn gerated.
Containers with radioactive waste shall be stored in a specifically marked area in a lead-shielded
storage room.
Containers with chemical waste that are to be specialized treatment facilities shall also be stored
in a separate room or area.
The central storage facility shall be thoroughly cleaned in accordance with procedures stipulated
in the Waste Management Plan.
Waste Transportation
For on-site transportation, the waste collection trolley shall be free of sharp edges, easy to load
and unload and to clean, and preferably a stable three or four-wheeled design with high sides.
The trolley shall not be used for any other purpose. The trolley shall be cleaned regularly, and
especially before any maintenance work is performed on it.
13



The sealed plastic bags shall be carefully loaded by hand onto the trolley, to minimize the risks
of punctures or tears.
Yellow-bagged hazardous waste and black-bagged non-hazardous waste shall be collected on
separate trolleys that shall be painted or marked in the corresponding colors.
The collection route shall be the most direct one from the final collection point to the central
storage facility designated in the Waste Management Plan. The collected waste shall not be left
even temporarily anywhere other than at the designated central storage facility.
Transportation off-site shall, unless otherwise agreed, be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health, which shall ensure that:
(i) all yellow-bagged waste is collected at least once daily;
(ii) all staff members handling yellow-bagged waste wear protective clothing;
(ii) yellow-bagged waste is transported separately from all other waste;
(iii)vehicles or skips used for the carriage of yellow- bagged waste are not used for any
other purpose, are free of sharp edges, easy to load and unload by hand, easy to
clean/disinfect, and fully enclosed, preferably with hinged and lockable shutters or
lids, to prevent any spillage in the hospital premises or on the highway during
transportation;
(iv)all concerned staff members are properly trained in the handling, loading and
unloading, transportation and disposal of yellow bagged waste, and are fully aware of
emergency procedures for dealing with accidents and spillage;
(v) all vehicles carry adequate supply of plastic bags, protective clothing, cleaning tools
and disinfectants to clean and disinfect any spillage;
(vi) the transportation of waste is properly documented, and all vehicles carry a
consignment note from the point of collection to the incinerator or landfill or other
final disposal facility; and
(vi)all vehicles are cleaned and disinfected after use.
Waste bags may be placed directly into the transportation vehicle, but it is safer to place them in
further containers (e.g. cardboard boxes or wheeled, rigid, lidded plastic or galvanized bins).
This has the advantage of reducing the handling of filled waste bags but results in higher disposal
costs. These secondary containers should be placed close to the
waste source.
Any vehicle used to transport health-care waste should fulfil the following design criteria:
* The body of the vehicle should be of a suitable size commensurate with the design of the
vehicle, with an internal body height of 2.2 metres.
14



* There should be a bulkhead between the driver's cabin and the vehicle body, which is
designed to retain the load if the vehicle is involved in a collision.
*  There should be a suitable system for securing the load during transport.
* Empty plastic bags, suitable protective clothing, cleaning equipment, tools, and
disinfectant, together with special kits for dealing with liquid spills, should be carried in a
separate compartment in the vehicle.
* The internal finish of the vehicle should allow it to be steam-cleaned, and the internal
angles should be rounded.
*  The vehicle should be marked with the name and address of the waste carrier.
* The international hazard sign should be displayed on the vehicle or container, as well as
an emergency telephone number.
Vehicles or containers used for the transportation of health-care waste should not be used for the
transportation of any other material. They should be kept locked at all times, except when
loading and unloading. Articulated or demountable trailers (temperature-controlled if required)
are particularly suitable, as they can easily be left at the site of waste production. Other systems
may be used, such as specially designed large containers or skips; however, open-topped skips or
containers should never be used for transporting health-care waste.
Where the use of a dedicated vehicle cannot be justified, a bulk container that can be lifted on to
a vehicle chassis may be considered. The container may be used for storage at the health-care
establishment and replaced with an empty one when collected. The finish of these bulk
containers should be smooth and impervious and permit easy cleansing or
disinfection. The same safety measures should apply to the collection of hazardous
health-care waste from scattered small sources.
Waste Disposal
Depending upon the type and nature of the waste material and the organisms in the waste,
hazardous waste should be inactivated or rendered safe before final disposal by a suitable
thermal, chemical, irradiation, incineration, filtration or other treatment method, or by a
combination of such methods, involving proper validation and monitoring procedures.
Yellow-bagged waste shall be disposed of by burning in an incinerator or by burial in
a sanitary land-fill, or by any other method of disposal approved by the Ministry of Health.
Sharps containers which have not been placed in yellow bags for incinerator shall be
disposed of by encapsulation or other method of disposal approved by the Ministry of Health.
The method of disposal, whether by burning in an incinerator or by burial in a landfill
or otherwise, shall be operated by a hospital only after approval of its Waste Management Plan
by the Ministry of Health.
All hazardous waste delivered to an incinerator shall be burned within 24 hours.
Ash and residues from incineration and other methods shall be placed in robust, noncombustible
containers and sent to the designated landfill site.
15



Landfills shall be located at sites with minimal risk of pollution of groundwater and rivers.
Access to the site shall be restricted to authorized personnel only. Hazardous waste shall be
buried in a separate area of the landfill under a layer of earth or non-hazardous waste of at least
one meter depth which shall then be compacted. The landfill shall be regularly monitored by the
Ministry of Health to check for groundwater contamination and air pollution. The Ministry of
Health shall also ensure that the landfill operators are properly trained, especially in safe disposal
procedures, use of protective equipment and hygiene and emergency response procedures.
Daily collection of hazardous waste from hospitals shall be taken by the vehicles of the
Ministry of Health (or approved by the Ministry of Health) immediately to the designated landfill
site or incinerator by the most direct route, in accordance with prior scheduling of collection
times and journey times.
Radioactive waste which has decayed to background level shall either be buried in the landfill
site or incinerated.
Liquid radioactive waste shall be discharged into the sewerage system only after it has decayed
to background level and after it has been ensured that the radioactive materials are soluble and
dispersible in water, failing which it shall be filtered.
Accidents and Spillage
In case of accidents or spillage, the following action shall be taken:
(a) the emergency procedures mentioned in the Waste Management Plan shall be
implemented immediately;
(b) the contaminated area shall be immediately evacuated, if required;
(b) the contaminated area shall be cleared and, if necessary, disinfected;
(d) exposure of staff shall be limited to the extent possible during the clean-up operation,
and appropriate immunization carried out, as may be required; and
(e) any emergency equipment used shall be disinfected and immediately replaced in the
same location from which it was taken.
All hospital staff members shall be properly trained and prepared for emergency response,
including procedures for treatment of injuries, cleanup of the contaminated area and prompt
reporting of all incidents of accidents, spillage and near-misses.
The Waste Management Officer (as assigned) shall immediately investigate, record and review
all such incidents to establish causes and where necessary shall amend the Waste
Management Plan to prevent recurrence.
Waste Minimization and Reuse
To minimize health care waste, each hospital shall introduce:
16



(a) purchasing and stock controls, involving careful management of the ordering process to
avoid over-stocking, particularly with regard to date-limited pharmaceutical and other
products, and to accord preference to products involving low amounts of packaging;
(b) waste recycling programs, involving return of un-used or waste chemicals in quantity to
the supplier for reprocessing, return of pressurized gas cylinders to suppliers for refilling
and reuse, sale of materials such as mercury, cadmium, nickel and lead-acid to
specialized recyclers, and transportation of high level radioactive waste to the original
supplier; and
(c) waste reduction practices in all hospital departments.
To encourage reuse, each hospital shall separately collect, wash and sterilize, either thermally or
chemically in accordance with approved procedures, surgical equipment
and other items which are designed for reuse and are resistant to the sterilization process.
Inspections and Enforcement
A Public Health officer may inspect any hospital, incinerator or landfill located within the area of
his jurisdiction to check for compliance with the provisions of this Plan.
If a Health officer discovers any contravention of any provision of this plan, he or she shall
report to [enforcement actions to be completed by Ministry of Health.]
17



Annex 1
List of Persons Interviewed and Facilities Visited
Mr. Alfred Picardi, Senior Environmental Specialist, visited Tongatapu and Vava'u between
October 24 and October 30, 2002. The principal purpose of the consultancy was to address
health care waste management issues with regards to the Vaiola Hospital rehabilitation project.
Interviews were held with staff from the Ministry of Health; Ministry of Land Survey and
Natural Resources; the Ministry of Works, Environment and Manne, Department of
Environment; and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Quarantine and Quality Management
Division. Meetings were also held with Australia AID, JICA and the EU aid organization
representatives.
The consultant visited the Vaiola Hospital facilities, the Quarantine Division port facility and
incinerator, and the Tongatapu waste disposal area currently used by the hospital for health care
waste. On the island of Vava'u the consultant visited the Prince Ngu Hospital facilities, as well
as the waste disposal area currently used by the hospital for health care waste.
Persons Interviewed
Persons Interviewed, Nuku'alofa, Ton atapu, October 23 through October 29, 2002
Mr. Asipeli Palaki                    Acting Director of Environment,
Department of Environment
Mr. Paula Taiufa                      Terrestrial Conservation Officer,
Department of Environment
Sione Foliaki                         Head, Quarantine and Quality Management
Division, Ministry of Agnculture and
Forestry
Taniela Sunia Soakai                  Senior Health Planning Officer
Sateki Telefoni                       Supervising Public Health Inspector
Vili Moale                            Vaiola Hospital Administrator
Siale Akauola                         Acting Medical Superintendent
Lata Malu                             Chief Nursing Officer
Persons Interviewed, Vava'l, October 25 thru October 28, 2002
Dr. Litili O'Fanoa                    Tonga Director of Health
Nili Fakakovi                         Public Health Inspector
U. T. Vaea                            Project Manager, EU AID
Prince Ng Hospital
Dr. Saia Pinkala                      Acting Chief Medical Officer
Dr. Samson Mesol                      (Surgeon on regular visit from Vaiola
Hospital)
Mayumi Ikarashi                       JOVC Nutritionist
Francis Tinani                        Lab. Technician Grade II
Fuji Takeiffa                         Senior Staff Nurse
Selu Tonga                            Hospital Filter Electrician
18



Dr. Susiting Piukala                  Dental Officer
Sho Totia                             Anesthetist
Mele Vainikolo                        Sister In Charge
Atorni Latu                           Radiographer
19



ANNEX 2
PHOTOGRAPHS
Wastewater Treatment Plant, Vaiola Hospital, Tongatapu
'~~~~~~~~~:bj ' _, 
Wastewater Treatment Lagoon, Vaiola Hospital, Tongatapu
20



-  ~ ~  ~  ~   -
Open Dump Where Health care waste is Disposed, Tongatapu - Note Young Scavengers in
Center of Frame
21



*       Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
SS-'
-~~~~t -
Quarantine Incinerator, Port Authority, Tongatapu
22



Health care waste Collection Bag and Central Collection Container, Prince Ngu Hospital,
Vava'u
F                                                _ ~~mw
U~~~~~~~~
Health Care Waste Disposal Truck, Prince Ngu Hospital, Vava'u
23



.                                                        1.
'if-  -
Open Dump Where Health Care Waste is Disposed from Prince Ngu Hospital, Vava'u -
Note Marsh Grasses, Estuary and House Across Water
24



Annex 3
WHO Guidelines for Incinerator Emissions
Treatment and disposal technologies for health care waste
Emission guidelines for "hospital/medical infectious waste" incineratorsa
Note These standards and guidelines also establish requirements for operator training/qualification, waste management plans,
and testing/monitonng of pollutants and operating parameters The standards for new incinerators also include siting
requirements
Pollutant                        Small incinerator     Medium Incinerator  [Large Incinerators
I (<91kg/hour)          (>91-227 kg/hour)   1 (>227 kg/hour)
A  Emission limits for new incinerators (construction after June 1996)
Particulate matter               115 mg/m3             69 mg/mr
Carbon monoxide (CO)             40 ppmv               40 ppmv
Dioxins/furans                   125 ng/m3 total       125 ng/m3 total       125 ng/m3 total
CCD/CDF or             CCD/CDF or           CCD/CDF or
2 3 ng/m3 TEQ         2 3 ng/m3 TEQ         2 3 ng/m 3 TEQ
Hydrogen Chlonde (HCI)           100 ppmv or           100 ppmv or           100 ppmv or
93% reduction          93% reduction        93% reduction
Sulfur dioxide (S02)             55 ppmv               55 ppmv               55 ppmv
Nitrogen Oxides                 250 ppmv               250 ppmv              250 ppmv
Lead                             1 2 mg/m3 or          1 2 mg/m3 or          1.2 mg/m3 or
70% reduction          70% reduction        70% reduction
Cadmium                          0 16 mg/mr3 or        0 16 mg/m3 or         0 16 mg/m3 or
65% reduction          65% reduction        65% reduction
Mercury                         0 55 mg/m3 or          0 55 mg/m3 or         0 55 mg/m3 or
85% reduction          85% reduction        85% reduction
B. Emussion limuts for existing incinerators (construction started before June 1996)
Particulate matter               115 mg/m               69 mg/m3             34 mg/mr
Carbon monoxide (CO)            40 ppmv                 40 ppmv              40 ppmv
Dioxins/furans                   125 ng/m3 total       125 ng/m3 total       125 ng/m3 total
CCD/CDF or             CCD/CDF or           CCD/CDF or
2 3 ng/m3 TEQ          2 3 ng/m3TEQ         2 3 ng/m3 TEQ
Hydrogen Chlonde (HCI)           100 ppmv or           100 ppmv or           100 ppmv or
93% reduction          93% reduction        93% reduction
Sulfur dioxide (S02)             55 ppmv               55 ppmv               55 ppmv
Nitrogen Oxides                  250 ppmv              250 ppmv              250 ppmv
Lead                             1 2 mg/m3 or          1 2 mg/m3 or          1 2 mg/m 3or
70% reduction          70% reduction        70% reduction
Cadmium                         0 16 mg/m3 or          0 16 mg/m3 or         0 16 mg/mr3 or
65% reduction          65% reduction        65% reduction
Mercury                          0 55 mg/rn3 or        0 55 mg/m3 or         0.55 mg/mr3 or
85% reduction          85% reduction        85% reduction
Pollutant                                          Emission limits
C Emission limits for existing incinerators that meet rural critena, i e. at a certain distance from metropolitan areas
and incinerating less than 908kg/week (construction started before June 1996)
Particulate matter                                 197 mg/mr3
Carbon monoxide (CO)                               40 ppmv
Dioxins/furans                                     800 ng/m3 total CDD/CDF or 15 ng/m3 TEQ
Hydrogen Chlonde (HCI)                             3100 ppmv
Sulfur dioxide (S02)                               55 ppmv
Nitrogen Oxides                                    250 ppmv
Lead                                               10 mg/mr3
Cadmium                                            10 mg/m3
Mercury                                            4 mg/m3
' Adapted from. Environmental Protection Agency (1997) Standards of performance for new stationary sources and emnission
guidelines for existing sources hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators final rule Federal register, 62 (178)
ppmv = parts per million in volume
CDD = polychlonnated dibenzo-p-dioxins
CDF = polychlorinated dibenzofurans
TEQ = 2,3,7,8 tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin toxic equivalent based on the 1989 international toxic equivalency factors
25



Annex 4
Consultant Terms of Reference
Feasibility Study on Health Care Waste Management in Tonga
Background
The World Bank is currently assisting the Govemment of the Kingdom of Tonga in preparing a
project to support the country's health sector reform. The specific objective of the project is to
(i) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and implement health financing
policy and collect, manage and use health information, and (ii) improve the functional and
technical quality of central Hospital (Vaiola Hospital).
A component of the project will support the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital infrastructure and
facilities, to overcome identified major deficiencies, improve the functional relationships and
overall operational efficiency of the hospital, and enhance the hospital's capacity to efficiently
meet its future service obligations. These developments will be guided by a master plan for the
hospital, which is to be prepared during project preparation.
Medical waste will invariably increase, both in quantity and variety. The concern is to ensure the
minimum level of adverse human and environmental impacts, if any, from the waste from the
hospital.
Objective
The objective of the consultancy is to undertake:
(i)   A feasibility study including a legislation study on health care waste management for
the Vaiola Hospital
(ii)  An asbestos survey report for Vaiola Hospital
Scope of consultancy
1) A situation analysis on the existing health care waste management in Vaiola Hospital. This
will include:
(i)   A review of the categories and of health care waste generated (clinical, sharps,
pharmaceutical products, cytotoxic and hazardous chemical, radioactive,
organic/non-organic domestic, domestic recyclable etc)
(ii)  Characterization of health care waste streams and estimation of quantities of
waste effluence issuing from the hospital
(iii)  Waste segregation mechanisms
(iv)  Identification of risks associated with the current waste management practices
(v)   Evaluation of existing training and patient/public awareness programs on
healthcare waste management at the hospital.
2) Review and analysis of existing legislative and other regulatory instruments on health care
waste management. This should include an assessment of the opportunities for strengthening
these regulations.
3) Review any planned donor assistance in health care waste management
26



4) Recommend a process flow for waste minimization, and if necessary, an economic and
environmentally sound treatment/final disposal of healthcare waste, leading to a choice of
technology(ies) for Viola Hospital (autoclaving, micro-waving, incineration chemical
disinfection)
5) Assess the personnel and other training needs. Also outline approaches to consultation with
regulations, environmental groups and the public, as necessary.
6) Development of a preliminary implementation plan (including indicators and costs) for
health care waste management to be included in the Tonga Health Sector Support Project.
7) An asbestos survey of the building will be conducted and the survey report. The survey
report would confirm or deny the presence of asbestos in the building. If present, then a
detailed description of asbestos (in terms of type, location, and quantity) will be prepared
including a remediation plan along with an implementation schedule and estimation of
abatement costs.
Output
(i) Preliminary design report and draft feasibility study report.
(ii) Asbestos survey report including remediation plan, implementation schedule and
abatement costs estimation.
27



Annex 5
Derinitions
"chemical waste" includes chemicals from diagnostic and experimental work, cleaning
processes, housekeeping and disinfecting procedures, mercury waste such as from broken
clinical equipment and spillage, and cadmium waste such as from discarded batteries.
"genotoxic waste" includes cytotoxic drugs and outdated materials, vomitus, faeces or urine from
patients treated with cytotoxic drugs or chemicals, and matenals such as syringes and vials
contaminated from the preparation and administration of such drugs.
"hazardous waste" means infectious waste, pathological waste, sharps, pharmaceutical waste,
genotoxic waste, chemical waste, and radioactive waste.
"Health Officer" means [Ministry of Health to complete].
"hospital" includes a clinic, laboratory, dispensary, pharmacy, nursing home, health unit,
maternity centre, blood bank, research institute and veterinary institution.
"health care waste" includes both hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste.
"Infectious waste" means waste contaminated by any type of pathogens such as bacteria, viruses,
parasite or fungi and includes cultures from laboratory work, waste from surgeries and autopsies,
waste from infected patients, discarded or disposable materials and equipment which have been
in contact with such patients, and infected animals from laboratories.
"Medical Superintendent" means the Head of the hospital, by whatever designation called
"non-hazardous waste" includes paper and cardboard, packaging, food waste and aerosols and
other domestic type waste.
"pathological waste" includes tissue, organs, body parts, foetuses and blood
and body fluids.
"pharmaceutical waste" includes expired or unused pharmaceutical products, spilled
contaminated pharmaceutical products, surplus drugs, vaccines or sera, and discarded items used
in handling pharmnaceuticals such as bottles, boxes, gloves, masks, tubes or vials.
"radioactive waste" includes liquid, solid and gaseous waste contaminated with radionuclides
generated from in-vitro analysis of body tissue and fluid, in-vivo body organ imaging and
tumour localization, and investigation and therapeutic procedures.
"sharps" include, whether infected or not, needles, syringes, scalpels, infusion sets, saws and
knives, blades, broken glass and any other item that could cut or puncture.
"waste management" includes waste segregation, waste collection, waste transportation, waste
storage, waste disposal and waste minimization and reuse.
28



Annex 6
Vaiola Hospital
Wastewater Treatment Plant Specifications
Epoxy-coated steel package treatment plant complete with all equipment for operations and start-
up. Treatment plant will be appropriate for the Vaiola 200-bed hospital wastewater flows. The
treatment is to include disinfection prior to discharge.
Five-year spare parts package to be included.
Operator training package with regular maintenance program guidance to be included.
Yearly troubleshooting/operator refresher training to be included.
Guaranteed effluent quality limits (World Bank Guidelines):
Parameter                     Limits
BOD5                       50 mg/l
Total suspended solids (TSS)  50 mg/l
Oil & Grease               10 mg/l
Coliform                   400 MPN/100ml
Total residual chlorine    0.2 mg/l
29



