Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB117
Project Name               TONGA-HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Region                      East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                     Health (100%)
Theme                       Health system performance (P); Other human development (S); Child health (S);
Population and reproductive health (S)
Project                     P075230
Borrower(s)                KINGDOM OF TONGA
Implementing Agency(ies)   MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address. P. 0. Box 59
Nuku'alofa, Kingdom of Tonga
Contact Person: Mr. Sunia Soakai, Senior Health Planning Officer
Tel: (676) 23 200 ext 14  Fax. (676) 24291    Email soakai@kalianet to
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          June 10, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        April 11, 2003
Bank Approval Date         July 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
BackgroundL The Kingdom of Tonga has a population of 100,672, with a high literacy rate of 99 percent
and a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of over US$1,500. The UNDP Human Development
Index ranks Tonga as sixth among the fourteen Pacific Islands States and as 107 globally, grouping it
with countries such as Honduras, Egypt, Guatemala, and Gabon The fiscal situation in the country is
deteriorating with real GDP growth declining to around 0.8 percent in 2000/01 after having risen to
around 5.9 percent in 1999/2000. Although poverty is not considered a problem in Tonga (its Human
Poverty Index is low at 5.2), Tonga is very vulnerable to external economic shocks and natural disasters
which threaten the sustainability of livelihood. Urbanization is on the increase - around two-thirds of the
population in the Tongatapu (the most populous island) now live in the capital Nuku'alofa compared to
one-third the population in 1986
The Government of the Kingdom of Tonga has developed an outline for a public sector reform program,
under the Economic and Pitblic Sector Reform Program (EPSRP), which was approved in December
1999 and is currently supported by the ADB, NZAID and AusAID. It is envisaged that the
implementation of the EPSRP will focus on policies to promote private sector leadership in economic
growth, strengthen public sector management, augment the efficiency of the financial sector and service
delivery, and improve social security. Health has been recognized as a core function of the Government
in this reform program.
Sector Issues
Health status indicators Tonga has achieved remarkable improvements in the health status of its
population over the past two decades. Infant mortality rates have decreased from around 29.7 per 1000
live births in 1980 to 13.1 in 2000. Life expectancy is 69.8 years for males and 71.8 for females. This is
among the highest in the Pacific. Communicable diseases are mostly under control except for
intermittent typhoid outbreaks thought to be associated with chronic carriers. Non-communicable
diseases-especially diabetes and cardiovascular disease-are now recognized as the major health



2
PID
problems and account for the majority of deaths as well as the largest financial burden to the health
system. Tonga's health transition took place as a result of concerted efforts to extend the reach of water
and sanitation throughout the country, as well as income gains (with associated improvements in
nutritional status), investments in education and a strong emphasis on immunization. More than 60
percent of the population has access to sanitary waste disposal facilities in rural areas and 80 percent in
urban areas, and water quality in most areas is considered to meet international standards. Sanitation
continues to have an important role in Tonga's public health efforts: a dedicated team of health
inspectors monitors sanitation throughout the country on a full-time basis, and the status of the chief
health inspector within the MOH is higher than in most similar countries. hmnunization coverage rates
are high, with quarterly campaigns in addition to routine service delivery through Maternal and Child
Health clinics. Historically, adequate nutritional intake was a function of reasonably high incomes and
Tonga's own agricultural productivity, at present, however, nutritional issues relate more to over-
nutrition and its consequences (e.g. obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases etc.).
Inefficiencies in health service delivery and the significant role of Vaiola HospitaL Tonga's health
system is composed of four types of facilities. Basic preventive and curative health services are provided
in rural areas at health centers (of which there are 14 in the country) and in urban areas at maternal and
child health clinics (of which there are 34). The former are staffed by health officers or nurse
practitioners; the latter are staffed by public health nurses only. Hospital care and outpatient services are
provided at one of four hospitals around the country: three in the outer islands and one on Tongatapu.
Each of the main outer island groups has its own hospital: Niu'elki Hospital on 'Eua (16 beds for a
population of 5,000), Niu'ui hospital on Ha'apai (28 beds for a population of 8,000), and Prince Ngu
Wellington Hospital on Vava'u (61 beds for a population of 16,500). Physical conditions at these
hospitals are variable. Niu'eiki Hospital on 'Eua was built with AusAID funds in 1990 and is in
reasonably good condition in spite of poor maintenance. Niu'ui Hospital on Ha'apai was built in 1979
and requires more extensive rehabilitation. Prince Ngu Wellington Hospital on Vava'u is in poor
condition but will be rehabilitated by a proposed European Union project in the next few years. The
pnvate medical sector is small and consists mostly of after-hours private practice by government doctors
and a handful of other clinics.
Vaiola Hospital on Tongatapu (202 beds) serves as a national outpatient referral center and tertiary
hospital as well as the provider of primary curative services for residents of the capital city, Nuku'alofa.
Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the role of the Vaiola Hospital Urbanization has
brought a large share of the population to Nuku'alofa and has increased the population of Tongatapu to
68 percent of Tonga as a whole. Changing disease patterns have also been influential. Tonga is at an
advanced stage of the health transition, and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) now represent a
substantial share of its burden of disease. This has increased the number of health center referrals to the
Vaiola outpatients clinic and has also increased the demand for tertiary hospital care. The bed occupancy
rate at the outlying hospitals is therefore low, between 21 and 25 percent, while that of Vaiola hospital
has remained at around 56 percent since the late 1990s. (The apparent over capacity at Vaiola itself is a
function of the hospital's original design as a communicable disease hospital designed for large numbers
of long-stay patients With communicable diseases now largely under control, wards such as the
isolation unit have been operating at significantly below capacity, while other wards such as matenity,
medicine and surgery, have become increasingly full.) The low bed utilization in the outer island
hospitals also reflects their small catchment populations. 5,000 in 'Eua, 8,000 on Ha'apai and 16,500 in
Vava'u. These compare with a population of around 70,000 on Tongatapu, of which around 47,000 are
in or around Nuku'alofa itself. In view of these small catchment areas and low utilization rates, the
MOH has deliberately accepted some staff vacancies in the outer island hospitals and has asked existing
staff to take on additional functions (such as radiography) rather than assigning specialized personnel for
these tasks. Clinical human resources are therefore increasingly concentrated at Vaiola Hospital, though



3
PID
public health staff are well represented in the outer islands and at health centers in the rural areas of
Tongatapu.
The current structure of Vaiola hospital does not adequately support its functional needs, and the
efficiency of clinical practice has been hampered by the poor physical facilities. For example,
outpatients, emergency, pharmacy and radiology departments are cramped and constrain the service able
to be provided. Waiting areas for outpatients and patient facilities (such as bathrooms) in wards are
inadequate, and service spaces, equipment and support ("hotel services") especially the kitchen are in
very poor condition. A client satisfaction survey conducted under the ongoing AusAID-support Tonga
Health Project identified these as being major areas of dissatisfaction among service users.
There are no primary curative services in Nuku'alofa other than the Vaiola outpatients clinic. Matemal
& Child Health (MCH) services are delivered by public health nurses in 19 MCH clinics around
Nuku'alofa, but there are no health officers or nurse practitioners to deliver low-level curative care.
These cases are therefore received at the Vaiola outpatients clinic. The Ministry of Health (MOH) has
considered several options to address this situation, such as establishing health centers alongside existing
MCH clinics or constructing a dedicated PHC clinic for Nuku'alofa, either on the existing hospital site
but disconnected from the hospital itself, or in a separate site in downtown Nuku'alofa. No decision has
been made on how to proceed In the meantime, Vatola and its clinical staff are servicing the primary
curative needs of the 47,000 residents of Nuku'alofa in addition to meeting their responsibilities as a
referral center. Outside Nuku'alofa, however, the MOH is planning to improve the clinical capability of
health officers and nurse practitioners at the health center level in order to decentralize the routine
management of diabetes, hypertension and other common NCDs. This is intended to reduce the public's
reliance on Vaiola's outpatients clinic for low-level care and strengthen its role as a referral center, both
of which will in turn help to absorb the effect of anticipated increases in NCD prevalence over the
coming decades.
Vaiola Hospital also serves as the center of the Tonga's public health system and the headquarters of its
MOH. Communicable disease surveillance, health promotion and health inspections are all supervised
by staff based at Vaiola. Several of these functions are currently being strengthened. Staff have been
added to the health promotion unit, and there is widespread recognition of the need to develop and
expand community-based preventive services to deal with the increasing burden of NCD risk factors. It
is recognized that more staff wtll be necessary to develop this process further. The ultimate objective of
these changes is to develop an integrated system of service delivery in which preventive care, curative
care, health promotion, health inspection and community outreach will all be based at the health center
level. The process has received some technical support from Phase II of an AusAID-supported Tonga
Health Project but is still in its early stages. In the meantime, improving administrative facilities at the
MOH will provide the necessary room for these expansions and will complement these ongoing efforts to
strengthen public health services through financinig, managerial and programmatic reforms.
Public health programs and the rising burden oJ non-communicable diseases. A number of initiatives
have been launched to reduce the burden of NCDs over the past few years On the preventive side, a
comprehensive NCD control plan has been developed by the MOH with the assistance of WHO, and a
series of subsidiary activities have been identified and delegated to various actors in the health sector;
tobacco control legislation was passed in 2000 and is currently being implemented; the country's
anti-smoking program is also being strengthened, with some aspects being managed by the MOH and
others by an NGO, Tonga Family Health; a National NCD Advisory Committee has been established
since 2001 to monitor NCD-related activities and advise the Minister of Health regarding their progress,
and the MOH's Health Promotion Unit has been strengthened to increase its focus on the prevention of
obesity, pnncipally by encouraging physical activity. Especially encouraging is a pilot project being



4
PID
conducted by the Health Promotion Unit (HPU) in which village volunteers are trained as aerobics
instructors and mentored by HPU staff to lead their communities in aerobics sessions and frequent walks,
and a similar project aimed at increasing physical activity by MOH staff. These activities are planned to
be scaled up and extended to communities on the outer islands over the next few years. MOH staff have
also been instrumental in building support for a "People's Footpath" from Vaiola Hospital to the
seashore, also designed to promote physical activity
On the curative side, the diabetes clinic at Vaiola hospital has developed a comprehensive program of
risk factor counseling and periodic follow-up for existing diabetics, and has developed clinical guidelines
for diabetes care for use by all medical officers in Tonga. It has also started a limited primary prevention
program focused on the families of those with type II diabetes. While there is no fonmal evidence of a
change in NCD prevalence yet, the government's commitment to developing and implementing a national
plan of NCD prevention and control is a positive sign.
Lack offinancial sustainability and allocational inefficiencies. With around 8 percent of its GDP going
to health, Tonga spends more on health as a percentage of GDP than most of the neighboring countries in
the region. The 2002-2003 budget allocated around 12 percent (T$10.14 million) to the health sector.
This represents a 14 percent increase from 1997/98 Of this, 31 percent was allocated for policy and
planning, 11 percent for preventive services, 55 percent for curative services and 3 percent for dental
services. Resource allocation is skewed towards curative care, with 66 percent of health expenditures
allocated for hospital care. Expenditures on salaries account for 68 percent of the government budget.
There is relatively little (5 percent) available for maintenance. Donor support provides T$2.75 million
in additional assistance. In spite of the proportion of the govermment budget allocated to health, the
public health sector remains under funded There is increasing pressure on the Ministry of Health to pay
more attention to cost containment and the development of methods to mobilize new revenues for the
health sector. In an effort to improve its oversight and management of the budget, the Ministry of Health
has introduced program budgeting (with support from AusAID program) since FY 1998-99. Overseas
referrals for civil servants account for an unsustainably large and increasing share of government health
care expenditures, at more than 5 percent of these expenditures. Efforts are under way to develop an
insurance program to support overseas referrals for civil servants.
Health information collection and use. Most of the effort in health information management currently
goes into the maintenance of patient medical records at Vaiola hospital, basic clinical data entry from
outer island hospitals and community health centers. These data are collated within the Milistry of
Health and used primarily in the production of an Annual Report on the overall status of the health
sector. Some of these data have been used to produce basic analytical reports on an ad hoc basis (for
example on number of patients attending community health centers, and breakdown of attendance by
clinical presentation). However, systematic mechanisms for channeling infonmation to productive uses,
such as public health promotion initiatives, improvements in preventive and curative patient care, or
disease surveillance are not yet in place.
Effective collection, processing and management of administrative and resources management data such
as accounting, human resources, financial management, inventory and logistics are also important for the
effective perfonmance of the health sector (as well as other govemment departments), particularly in view
of likely budget constraints in the medium-term. However, there is no link between clinical and
administrative/resource data collection and management processes within the health care system that
could provide useful infonnation on service and facilities utilization, the cost of service provision or the
effectiveness of public expenditures on health. This kind of infonnation would help to infonm policy
choices, particularly in light of the current shift to program budgeting and anticipated health care



5
PID
financing reforms.
Health Sector Priorities and Government Strategy
The Ministry of Health has developed a corporate strategic plan as a "major step forward to the
Government's new strategic approach to economic and social development planning" (Ministry of
Health, Kingdom of Tonga, Corporate Plan 2001/2002-2003/2004). The plan identifies three strategic
results areas: "to achieve improvements in the health status of the nation by increased responsiveness to
the country's health needs; to achieve improvements in health prevention programs at all levels; and to
develop strategies to safeguard the health of the nation with regard to development".
The health sector priorities of the MOH are clearly outlined in the report Tonga's Health 2000. The
priority areas for attention are divided into two categories (i) management priority areas, and (n) health
priority areas. The management priority areas include:
(i)  improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of the health system,
(ii)  improving and strengthening work force management,
(iii)  providing the Tonga health system with a financial management system at a time when the
Govemment is trying to contain costs and increase revenues,
(iv)  providing the Tonga health system with improved facilities and equipment and ensuring their
maintenance, and
(v)  strengthening informed decision making through the provision of appropriate information
management.
Health priority areas include: (i) diabetes and heart disease, (ii) injuries and emergency care, (iii)
pharmacy services, (Iv) dental decay, (v) mental health, and (vi) cancer.
2. Objectives
Health reform in Tonga is aimed at creating a health system which responds effectively to the health
needs of the population by providing the appropriate range and level of high quality health services.
The specific objective of the project is to support health reform in the Kingdom of Tonga by improving
the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and implement health financing policy, and collect,
manage and use health infonnation and by improving the administrative, functional and technical quality
of Vaiola Hospital.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The IDA supported project is linked to the broader public sector reform goals of the Govermnent and
health sector reform goals of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health has been one of the most
successful Ministries in the reform program. One aspect of the refonn is the devolution of personnel
management from the Public Service Commission to the line ministries. The project will build capacity
within the Ministry of undertake this new responsibility. Bank support for the project also provides
access to international techlnical experts and capacity for securing commitments from other donors to
provide funding as well as technical assistance to support the reform program. In addition, the Bank
successfully encouraged AusAID to support an extension of Phase It of the Tonga Health Project to
sustain ongoing management and human resources reforms in the Ministry of Health The Bank can also
bring relevant experielce from other relevant developing and developed countries as well as provide a
macroeconomic perspective. Experience from a similar project in Samoa and the goodwill developed



6
PID
between the Bank and the various donor partners in the Pacific under that project are other values added.
The Bank's global experience in the sector provides further benefits, as does its ability to offer technical
as well as financial support. The donor coordination role of the Bank is also an asset.
4. Description
The project will support the following components.
Component A. StrengtheniingHealth Care Financing: This component will support the review,
development and implementation of policies which define the funding and overall allocation of resources
to health services. In particular, it will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to: (i) plan
resource needs for the health sector; (ii) finance primary health care and preventive services; and (iii)
develop options to finance health services and pilot and evaluate the preferred option before full
implementation. These will be achieved through technical support, training, capacity building, studies
and extensive consultation with stakeholders and beneficiaries.
Component B. Improving Health Information Management: This component will comprise three
subcomponents: (i) strengthening the information culture, (n) developing and implementing a Hospital
Information System at Vaiola and (iii) information management for NCD prevention and control
B 1 Strengthening the information culture in the MOH: This subcomponent will include. (i) upgrading
the information infrastructure and improving analytical skills in the Health Information Center; (ii)
developing improved procedures for the collection, management and use of information throughout the
Ministry of Health, including the development and adoption of standardized definitions (health data
dictionary); (iii) ensuring consistent use of information within the Ministry of Health to review
performance and inform decision-making; (iv) improving the collection and monitoring systems for
public health data and (v) improving community-based reporting of health data. This will be achieved
through long and short term technical support, training, capacity building and purchase of computer
equipment and software for the Health Information Center.
B.2. Developing and implementing a Hospital Information System for Vaiola This is a two-step
process. In the first phase, the subcomponent will finance technical assistance, training and capacity
building to achieve improvements in the collection, storage and use of medical records; improvements in
information processes elsewhere in the hospital, e.g for patient admissions, transfers and discharges; in
the second phase, the subcomponent will finance the purchase and installation of a computerized hospital
infonnation system that is appropriate to the capacity and requirements of the hospital and is not unduly
elaborate or costly. The detailed design will be informed by wide consultation with Ministry of Health
staff and based on an options paper that provides a range of choices from which the Ministry of Health
may choose. These in turn will be linked to the redevelopment of the hospital.
B.3. Information managementfor NCD prevention and control This subcomponent will finance
technical assistance, survey, training in NCD management and equipment for a pilot project of
community-based identification and treatment for diabetes and hypertension that will provide health
officers and public health nurses with diagnostic tools and clinical guidelines to identify and manage
uncomplicated cases in the community and a referral system to ensure these cases are appropriately
referred for further review at Vaiola Hospital.
Component C Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital: The objective of this component is to
improve the administrative, technical and functional efficiency of Vaiola Hospital by investing in



7
PID
infrastructure redevelopment and management strengthening This component will therefore focus on
three areas: redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital, improving hospital management and developing a health
care waste management system.
C 1: Redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital The Project will finance a combination of construction and
rehabilitation on the existing Vaiola Hospital site. These will be based on a preferred option for hospital
design that was approved by His Majesty's Cabinet in May, 2002. A master plan for hospital
redevelopment is currently under preparation and will be finalized early in project implementation. The
provision of a laddered increase in the maintenance budget for Vaiola Hospital has been included as a
key covenant of the Project.
C.2: Improving hospital management. The Project will through technical assistance and training support
ongoing efforts to strengthen hospital management at Vaiola through (a) management coaching for
senior and middle managers, and (b) the development and implementation of key management and
human resource policies at the hospital.
C.3: Development of a health care waste management system. This sub-component will finance
improvements in health care waste management for strengthening the policy framework for health care
waste management by providing technical assistance for the preparation of a national health care waste
management policy and a health care waste management plan. It will also finance in-service and external
training for all health care staff involved in waste segregation and waste management and disposal. In
addition, the project will procure items such as a new waste water treatment facility at the Vaiola
Hospital and waste disposal containers and a vehicle for disposal of hazardous waste.
Comnponent D. Project Management and Coordination: This component includes the operation of the
Project Management Unit (PMU) which will provide project support functions, including day-to-day
management, monitoring and coordination of Project activities among implementing units, procurement,
accounting, disbursement and financial management, liaising with and reporting to the Project Director,
and communicating with IDA. The project will fund project management consultants, travel, training and
other administrative expenses
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($1.44)
IDA ($10.94)
Total Project Cost. $12 38
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a five year penod between 2003-2008, with a mid term review in
the middle of year three. It will be implemented by the Ministry of Health.
Project Oversight: General oversight will be provided by a Project Steering Committee which has
already been established and is composed of representatives from the Ministries of Health, Finance,
Foriegn Affairs and Works & Disaster Relief Activities and the Departments of Statisitics and Crown
Law. This committee will be chaired by the Minister of Health and will meet on a quarterly basis. The
committee will be responsible for the overall coordination of project implementation to ensure that
project objectives are achieved.
Project Management. A Project Director appointed within the Ministry of Health will be responsible for



8
PID
carrying out the overall management of the Project on a part time basis, heading the Project Management
Unit, and acting as executive Secretary to the Project Steering Committee. Three officers have been
appointed as Implementation Managers and will be retained until completion of the Project for purposes
of managing the carrying out of selected components of the Project: an Architect seconded from the
Ministry of Works for managing the carrying out of Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital
component; the Principal Health Administrator from the Ministry of Health for managing the carrying
out of the health care financing component; and a clinician-manager from the Ministry of Health for
managing the carrying out of the health information management component. In addition, for purposes
of assisting each implementation manager, working groups have been identified for each component of
the project and will monitor, provide technical input and serve as a consultative forum for the
Implementation Managers working on each component.
The day-to-day operations of the Project will be carried out by a PMU. This unit will be headed by the
Project Director and will comprise four full-time staff: a Project Implementation Coordinator; a
Procurement Officer; a Project Accountant; and a Project Admunistrative Assistant The PMU will be
responsible for carrying out the day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of Project
activities among implementing units, procurement, disbursement, accounting and financial management,
liaising with and reporting to the Project Director, and communicating with IDA.
Procurentent A Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted by a Procurement Accredited Staff
(PAS). The assessment revealed that the MOH has no prior Bank-financed procurement experience and
therefore has no prior knowledge of Bank's procurement guidelines. However, limited procurement
experience has been gained through the implementation of the AusAID-financed Tonga Health Project
and the implementation of the PHRD for project preparation. A short-term procurement advisor with
Bank procurement experience will be contracted to train the project procurement officer on relevant
Bank procedures. A procurement capacity assessment report was prepared during project preparation
and a detailed time bound action plan to strengthen procurement capacity was discussed and agreed upon
with the government. Additionally, a detailed first year procurement plan has been prepared and
discussed and agreed upon during Negotiations along with the use of Bank's standard bidding documents.
The agreed first year procurement plan is included in the PIP. There are no other particular procurement
issues.
Financial Management A financial management system assessment report was prepared during project
preparation and a detailed time bound action plan to set-up the financial management system and to
strengthen capacity was discussed and agreed upon with the govermnent.
Auiditing Arrangements Project accounts will be audited on an annual basis in accordance with
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA The audits will include
a separate opinion on the Statement of Expenditure (SOE), the quarterly financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) and the Special Account. The audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months,
following the end of the Government's fiscal year, the first such report will be due on December 31,
2004. The audit firm would be appointed by February 28, 2004. The cost of the audit will be financed
through the credit.
Disbuirsement Mechanism. Disbursements under the credit will be made on a transactional basis, using
SOEs. Supporting documents will be maintained by the PMU, and quarterly financial management
reports will be prepared based on formats agreed with the IDA.
Project Monitoring. The principal responsibility for monitoring and evaluation will rest with the
Implementation Managers of each project component. They will be assisted in this task by the



9
PID
Implementation Coordinator, who will be responsible for incorporating them into project reports on a
semi-annual basis. For indicators requiring technical expertise-namely those that rely on the Health
Information System or the household survey-the implementation managers will draw on MOH staff
involved (e.g. health statistics officer) or consultants (e.g. household survey consultant) working in each
area. A detailed list of monitoring and evaluation indicators have been prepared for the Project and is
included in the Project Implementation Plan.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project was measured in tenns of improvements in preventive care, fiscal
impact, institutional capacity and community support for reform after project completion.
Improvement in preventive care: Extending the health information system to include community-level
surveillance for key non-communicable diseases will be linked to improvements in case management and
secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.
Fiscal impact: Improvements in the operational efficiency of the Vaiola hospital and the accompanying
health financing reforms is expected to improve sustainability of funding for the sector and the
effectiveness of health service delivery. The masterplan preparation will ascertain the implications both
in terms of human resources and recurrent costs to ensure that the hospital can be run efficiently with
adequate resources to maintain the facility Prelimunary estimates of these changes were obtained during
project preparation and have been included among the project's key conditions.
Institutional capacity: The project will provide action-based training to health ministry staff to build
capacity in policy development, health information collection and analysis and asset management and
planning.
Community support for reforms: The stakeholder consultation process developed during the project will
ensure continued community support for the reform process.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Critical lessons learned from other Bank-financed health and other projects in the region especially in the
Pacific as well as around the world were taken into consideration during project design Also taken into
consideration were the experiences of other donor projects in the country. These include:
(i) Project should be focussed. There is a tendency for health projects in small countries to include
multiple and loosely linked objectives. This often complicates the implementation and makes the project
less successful. The project design and implementation structure has been kept simple to ensure this.
(ii) Capacity building support is essential in institutional strengthening projects. An institutional
support program for the Ministry related to financial management, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation has been developed as part of the project design. The PMIU which resides within the
implementing agency will be provided continuous support and training on financial management and
procurement from experts familiar with Bank procedures within the country. On-the-job training is an
essential part of the project design. Technical experts hired under the project will be required to provide
training to their counterparts as part of their contract.
Further, this being the first health project in Tonga, allowance has been made for limited capacity in
project implementation and application of Bank requirements has been realistic with sufficient support



10
PID
for meeting Bank safeguards, financial management requirements and project supervision. The
experience from a similar Bank health project in Samoa showed the benefits of having a PMU for the
project that is seen as an integral part of the implementing Ministry. In Samoa, the implementing agency
sees the project as an opportunity to build its own capacity in financial management and procurement.
Several key project staff such as the implementation officer, community participation and communication
officer and capital assets manager are now employees of the Department of Health (and paid through
counterpart funds).
(iii) Systems should be in place to deal with high turnover of project staff. In small island countries with
high turnover among staff, systems are needed that can be easily understood and introduced as potential
changes in staff continue in the future. High turnover also needs to be taken into consideration when
training plans are prepared.
(iv) Quality at entry. Poverty and social impact analysis, risk analysis and monitoring and evaluation
were given priority during project preparation to ensure quality at entry.
(v) Stakeholder support for reform. Any reform initiative needs to be socially sustainable. Full
involvement of communities will be ensured through broad participation of all stakeholders during
project preparation and implementation.
(vi) Donor coordination. To ensure coordination among all donor partners in the reform program in the
redevelopment of the hospital, a clear framework for coordination in procurement planning, project
implementation and policy development will be developed during project implementation. Bank
missions so far have been closely conducted with AusAID project staff Discussions were also held with
JICA. Annual donor meetings and a possible common project steering committee for all donor projects
will be suggested during implementation.
(vii) The need for a review of the budget and recurrent cost implications. The recurrent cost implications
of the Project were carefully considered during preparation. Extensive consultation with the MOH and
MOF was carried out to ensure the proposed changes will be sustainable.
(viii) The needforpolicy reform alongside infrastructure investments. Sustainable improvements in
health sector performance require an equal emphasis on policy reforms as well as improvements in
physical infrastructure. The inclusion of health financing and health infonnation system components
addresses this need, and also responds to priorities expressed by the MOH.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The project mainly supports rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and extension of
existing buildings. Demolition of some existing buildings, movement of workers, equipment and
materials within the hospital site and proper disposal of debris are the environmental issues that may
arise. An asbestos survey has been conducted , and some small quantities of non-friable asbestos
materials found. Best practices for demolition of these materials (from US EPA guidance) have been
drafted for inclusion in bid documents. Bidding documents will also include hours-of-work, dust and
noise limits. The supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring that these requirements are
met.
A Health Care Waste Management Feasibility Study has been conducted. Environmentally acceptable
waste management options have been delineated and optimized. Terms of Reference for international



11
PID
technical assistance in developing a Health Care Waste Management Policy and Health Care Waste
Management Plan, as well as training has been drafted. The need for a new package waste water
treatment system has been identified and the system treatment requirements (World Bank Guidelines),
operator training, maintenance package, and costs have been delineated.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rekha Menon
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2529
Fax: 202 522 3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:l/ www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



