E728
Volume 1
Tonga Health Care Project
Asbestos Survey Report
November 31, 2002
Alfred Picardi
Senior Environmental Management Consultant
327 Rosslare Drive
Arnold, MD 21012
001 (410) 544 - 4295
alpicardi(d cablespeed.com



Tonga Health Care Project
Asbestos Survey Report
Table of Contents
1.0 Introduction
2.0 Health Risks of Asbestos Exposure
2.1 Asbestos Diseases
2.2 Airborne Fiber Concentrations
3.0 Asbestos Survey of Vaiola Hospital
3.1 ACM Sampling and Analyses
3.2 Condition of Confirmed ACM
4.0 Environmental Management for Demolition
4.1 Acceptable Demolition Techniques
4.2 Non-friable Asbestos
4.3 ACM Disposal
Annex 1 Photographs
Annex 2 Asbestos Sampling and Analysis Documentation
Annex 3 Consultant's Terms of Reference



1.0 Introduction
The World Bank is currently assisting the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga in
preparing a project to support the country's health sector reform. The specific objective
of the project is to (i) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and
implement health financing policy and collect, manage and use health information, and (ii)
improve the functional and technical quality of central Hospital (Vaiola Hospital).
A component of the project will support the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital
infrastructure and facilities, to overcome identified major deficiencies, improve the
functional relationships and overall operational efficiency of the hospitaL and enhance the
hospital's capacity to efficiently meet its future service obligations. These developments
will be guided by a master plan for the hospital, which is to be prepared during project
preparation.
The latest available master plan for the hospital renovation calls for a phased demolition
and construction program, wherein one or more buildings is demolished in the first phase,
with demolition and construction taking place on site simultaneously in subsequent phases.
The health care services of Vaiola Hospital will continue on site throughout the
demolition/construction project within the balance of the buildings, moving into new
construction as it becomes available.
Asbestos is a potential concern at Vaiola Hospital if it is present in a hazardous form in the
hospital buildings that would be demolished. The environmental health concern is for
patients remaining on site during the renovation process, as well as the construction
workers, and the general public in the vicinity.
"Friable" asbestos can be crumbled by hand and release fibers. Non-friable asbestos
containing materials are defined as those which cannot be crumbled by hand and contain
more than one percent asbestos. Any friable asbestos should be removed prior to
demolition activities, since the release of asbestos fibers into the air poses unacceptable
health risks. Asbestos can become hazardous if demolition practices pulverize otherwise
non-friable (will not crumble) asbestos materials.
2.0 Health Risks of Asbestos Exposure'
Most health information on asbestos exposure has been derived from studies of workers
who have been exposed to asbestos in the course of their occupation. Asbestos fiber
'Review of the health effects of asbestos is excerpted from guidance provided by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection.



concentrations for these workers were many times higher than those encountered by the
general public.
Because asbestos fibers are naturally occurring and extremely aerodynamic, virtually
everyone is exposed to asbestos. To be a significant health concern, asbestos fibers must
be inhaled at high concentrations over an extended period of time. Asbestos fibers then
accumulate in the lungs. As exposure increases, the risk of disease also increases.
Therefore, measures to minimize exposure and consequently minimize accumulation of
fibers will reduce the risk of adverse health effects.
Asbestos is only dangerous if it becomes airborne. As long as asbestos containing
materials are not damaged, the asbestos fibers do not become airborne and do not pose a
health threat to the building occupants. During an asbestos building survey, inspectors
assess the condition of asbestos containing materials. These conditions do deteriorate over
time.
2.1 Asbestos Diseases
As asbestos fibers accumulate in the lungs, several types of diseases may occur.
Asbestosis is a scarring of the lung tissue. This scarring impairs the elasticity of the lung
and hampers its ability to exchange gases. This leads to inadequate oxygen intake to the
blood. Asbestosis restricts breathing leading to decreased lung volume and increased
resistance in the airways. It is a slowly progressive disease with a latency period of 15 to
30 years.
Another disease attributed to asbestos exposure is Mesothelioma. It is a cancer of the
pleural lining. It is considered to be exclusively related to asbestos exposure. By the time it
is diagnosed, it is almost always fatal. Similar to other asbestos related diseases,
mesothelioma has a longer latency period of 30 to 40 years.
Lung Cancer is a malignant tumor of the bronchi covering. The tumor grows through
surrounding tissue, invading and often obstructing air passages. The time between
exposure to asbestos and the occurrence of lung cancer is 20 to 30 years. It should be
noted that there is a synergistic effect between smoking and asbestos exposure, which
creates an extreme susceptibility to lung cancer.
2.2 Airborne Fiber Concentrations
Asbestos is known to be hazardous based on studies of high levels of exposure to asbestos
workers and laboratory animals. However, the risks associated with low-level, non-
occupational exposure are not well established. Therefore, the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) concludes that there is no safe level of exposure to asbestos fibers. On the
other hand, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set a
Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) at 0.1 fibers per cubic centimeter (f/cc) for an 8 hour
tirne weighted average. Similarly, the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) has set the
Clean Indoor Air Standard at 0.01 f/cc.



3.0 Asbestos Survey of Vaiola Hospital
An inspection of the Vaiola Hospital buildings was made by the consulnt On %tober 24,
and potential asbestos containing materials in the facility were identified. T-X ,,e-ntial
asbestos containing materials (ACM) at the facility include resilient floor tiles, %bestos
cement (Transite) roofing materials, and steam pipe insulation. These nMteTiajI were the
same (homogenous) throughout the areas where they were found, therefore, oi
representative samples were required for characterization.
The extent of potential ACM found includes:
*  The resilient floor tiles that are used as covering in most of the facility buildings;
* A covered walkway approximately 150 feet long and eight feet wide that has an
asbestos cement (Transite) roof Some of this roof has been replaced with metal.
There are also some window shades which are Transite in approximately sixty-foot by
three-foot sections on three stories of the face of the medical building;
* Steam pipes that run from the steam boiler to the wards and laboratory are wrapped
with mnineral wool material in deteriorated condition.
Photographs of these areas are included in Annex 1.
3.1 ACM Sampling and Analyses
Representative samples of the roofing (Transite), resilient floor tile, and steam pipe
insulation were taken at Vaiola Hospital on October 29, 2002. The samples were
analyzed by an accredited laboratory in Hanover, Maryland, on November 12, 2002. The
analysis results confirmed the Transite roofing material is 10% asbestos, and  floor tiles
are 2% asbestos. The steam pipe insulation was confirmed as mineral wooL Ath no
asbestos detected. Documentation of the sample analyses is included in Annex 2.
3.2 Condition of Confirmed ACM
Both the resilient floor tiles and the Transite roofing material are currentlv non-friable; that
is, they cannot be crumbled by hand. As such, they do not impose an emurorwal
hazard if demolition techniques are used that do not crush, crumble or abrade t&,ese
materials in such a way as to release asbestos fibers into the air. U. S. EPA regulations do
not require removal of these materials prior to demolition as long as the demrrion
techniques used do not lead to release of asbestos fibers into the air. Furthennore, these
materials may be disposed as construction debris, again, as long as they are anled in
such a manner in the disposal area so as not to release asbestos fibers into the ai from
being crushed or abraded. Resilient floor tiles should be removed from concrew that is to
be recycled in an aggregate plant, since crushing the tiles would release asbestos fibers



into the air. Should the steam pipe insulation proved not to be ACM, and no special
removal techniques are required.
4.0 Environmental Management for Demolition
The following guidance for demolition techniques should be included in the demolition and
construction tender documents for the Vaiola Hospital renovation. Plans for the hospital
renovation currently call for health care activities to take place within the unaffected
buildings at the hospital throughout the demolition and construction process. The
windows of the hospital buildings housing patients are typically open during clement
weather. The open windows would make patients liable to airbome dust exposure from
demolition (and construction) activities. Exposure to airborne dust from demolition
activities has the potential to exacerbate and/or cause several health conditions, including
asthma. Therefore, the principal overall demolition restriction will be that no visible dust
will be generatedfrom the demolition activities.
Should demolition activities begin to generate visible airborne dust, the contractor(s)
will cease the activity(s) which generate the dust: (i) until the dust is controlled with
means such as water spray or (ii) another demolition technique which does not
generate airborne dust is substituted.
Noise is another concern because of the exposure scenario detailed above. The contrctor
specifications should limit: (i) hours of work, and (ii) sound levels during work. An
international standard for acceptable noise level should be chosen and written into the
work specifications.
4.1 Acceptable Demolition Techniques for Asbestos Containina Materials (ACM)
The resilient floor covering and Transite board materials encountered at Vaiola Hospital
were not friable, that is, they could not be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by
hand. These materials can be handled so as not to become environmental concerns during
demolitiorL Demolition methods which could cause these materials to become an
environmental concern are prohibited in this project, and the prospective demolition
contractors are to make their bids accordingly, or propose control and monitoring
techniques that will assure these materials will not become environmental concerns.
Demolition methods which could make these materials an environmental concern by
crushing or pulverizing them so as to release asbestos fibers into the air are discussed
below.
4.2 Non-friable Asbestos
US EPA categorizes non-friable asbestos containing materials (ACM) as category I and
category II. Resilient floor covering is considered a Category I and Transite board



(roofing) is considered Category II ACM. The following is excerpted from EPA guidance
on demolition of Category I and II asbestos materials:
CATEGORY I non-friable ACM
Category I non-friable ACM includes resilient floor covering which contains more
than one percent (1%) asbestos as determined by standard methods. Category I
non-friable ACM must be inspected and tested for friability if it is in poor condition
before demolition. If the ACM is friable, it should be handled as an environmental
concern. Asbestos-containing resilient floor coverings must be removed before
demolition only if they are in poor condition and are friable.
If a facility is demolished by intentional burning, all of the facility's ACM, including
Category I and II non-friable ACM, must be removed prior to burning.
Additionally, if Category I or Category II non-friable ACM is to be sanded,
ground, cut, or abraded, the material is considered an environmental concern and
the owner or operator must:
(i) Adequately wet the material during the sanding. grinding, cutting or
abrading operations.
(ii) Handle asbestos material produced by the sanding, grinding, cutting, or
abrading, as asbestos-containing waste material.
CATEGORY II non-friable ACM
Category II non-friable ACM is any material, excluding Category I non-friable
ACM, containing more than one percent (1%) asbestos that, when dry, cannot be
crunbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure.
Category II non-friable ACMs (cement siding, transite board shingles, etc.)
subjected to intense weather conditions such as thunderstorms, high winds or
prolonged exposure to high heat and humidity may become "weathered" to a point
where they become friable.
U. S. EPA requires that each owner or operator of a demolition or renovation
activity involving asbestos material of environmental concern remove all such
material from a facility being demolished or renovated before any activity begins
that would break up, dislodge, or similarly disturb the material or preclude access
to the material for subsequent removal.
ACM need not be removed before demolition if it:
(i) Is a Category I non-friable ACM that is not friable.
(ii) Is on a facility component that is encased in concrete or other similarly
hard material and is adequately wet whenever exposed during demolition.
(iii) Was not accessible for testing and therefore was not discovered until
after demolition began and, as a result of the demolition, cannot be safely
removed. If not removed for safety reasons, the exposed RACM and any



asbestos-contaminated debris must be treated as asbestos-containing waste
material and kept adequately wet at all times until disposed of
(iv) Is a Category II non-friable ACM and the probability is low that the
material will become crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder during
demolition.
Use of heavy machinery during the razing process causes Category II nonfriable ACM
(transite board), but not Category I nonfriable ACM (resilient floor tiles) to become an
environmental concern.
All Transite materials should be carefully removed without crushing or pulverizing the
panels. If the contractor carefully removes asbestos-cement materials using tools that do
not cause significant damage, the materials are not considered an environmental hazard
and can be disposed of with other construction debris. However, if demolition is
accomplished through the use of cranes (equipped with wrecking balls, clamshells or
buckets), hydraulic excavators, or implosion/explosion techniques, asbestos-cement
products will be crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder, and are an environmental
concern.
4.3 ACM Disposal
Where demolition debris will be recycled, any asbestos remaining on the debris must be
removed prior to any recycling that will sand, grind, cut, or abrade the asbestos or
otherwise cause it to become an environmental concern by releasing asbestos fibers.
Asbestos-containing roofing material may not be ground up for recycling into other
products.
Depending upon the contractors involved and the condition of the asbestos-containing
roof debris, the debris may or may not be segregated from other demolition debris. If the
asbestos-containing roofing material is not in poor condition and is not friable, it may be
disposed of in a landfill which accepts ordinary demolition waste.
In general, since cleanup activities such as loading waste debris onto trucks for disposal do
not subject nonfriable materials to sanding, grinding, cutting or abrading, such materials
are not an environmental concern.
However, waste consolidation efforts which involve the use ofjack hammers or other
mechanical devices such as grinders to break up asbestos-containing concrete or other
materials covered or coated with Category I nonfriable ACM, are an environmental
concern.
In addition, operations such as waste recycling which sand, grind, cut, or abrade Category
I or II nonfriable ACM are an environmental concern. When these types of activities are
performed, Category I and II nonfriable ACM become an environmental concern.



ANNEX 1
PHOTOGRAPHS
Transite Roof or' VValkway, Vaiola Hospital, Tongatapu
Transite WindOW Shades, Vaiola Hospital, Tongatapu



PW~~~4
:A,
P'Pnu to -_ l  ,,a   T
_n Pipe Insulation, Valola Hospital, Tongatapu



ANNEX 2
ASBESTOS SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS DOCUMENTATION



MA Analytical Srve lces Ic.
A Specialized Environmental Laboratory                      CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS                                                                                   NY ELA
Client:           Al Picardi                                  Job Name:             Tonga                                           ChainOfCustody:        105900             AIHN
Address:          327 Rosslare Drive                          Job Location:         Not Provided                                     Date Analyzed:         11/12/2002
Arnold, Maryland 21012                      Job Number:          Not Provided                                     Person Submitting:     Al Picardi
P.O. Number:          Not Provided
Page I of I
Attention:        Al Picardi
Summary of Polarized Light Microscopy
AMA Sample       Client     Total    Chrysotile  Amosite   Crocidolite   Other     Mineral   Fiberglass  Organic   Synthetic   Other   Particulate  Sample   Analyst       Comments
Number       Sample #   Asbestos    Percent    Percent    Pcrcent    Asbestos    Wool       Percent    Percent   Percent   Percent    Percent     Color     ID
Percent    Percent
0309188          1         2            2                                               -                                                 98        Gray     JC
0309189          2         10           8          2          -          -           -          --        -         --        -           90       Gray      JC
0309190          3       NAD           -          -           --         -          70          --        TR                   -          30       Brown     IC
The following footnotes only apply to those samples which the total asbestos result is flagged with a note number.
I    TEM RECOMMENDATION - Pleasc note, due to resolution limitations with optical microscopy and/or interference from matrix components of this sample, results which are reported via PLM as negative
or trace (< 1 %) for asbestos may contain a significant quantity of asbestos. It is recommended that the additional analytical technique of TEM be used to check for asbestos fibers below the resolution limits
of optical microscopy.
2    MATRIX REDUCTION RECOMMENDATION - Please note, due to interference from the matrix components of this sample, results which are reported via PLM as negative or trace (< 1%/) for asbestos may
contain a significant quantity of asbestos which is obscured from view. It is recommended that the additional preparation technique of gravimetric reduction be performed on this sample to minimize the
obscuring effects of matrix components, followed by reanalysis by PLM and/or TEM
Analysis Method - EPA/600/R-93/116 dated July 1993
NAD = 'No Asbestos Detected'       TR = 'Trace equals less than 1% of this component"
ohn Contrera
This report applies only to the sample, or samples, investigated and is not necessarily indicative of the quality or condition or apparently identical or similar products. As a mutual protection to clients, the public and these Laboratories,
this report is submitted and accepted for the exclusive use of the client to whom it is addressed and upon the condition that it is not to be used, in whole or in part, in any advertising or publicity matter without prior written authorization
from us. Sample types, locations and collection protocols are based upon the Information provided by the persons submitting them and, unless collected by personnel of these Laboratories, we expressly disclaim any knowledge and
liability for the accuracy and completeness of this information. Residual sample material will be discarded in accordance with the appropriate regulatory guidelines, unless otherwise requested by the client. NVLAP Accreditation
applies only to polarized light microscopy of bulk samples and transmission electron microscopy of AHERA air samples.                                       AU rights reserved. AMA Analytical Services, Inc.
An ATHA (#8863), NVLAP (# 101143), & New York ELAP (#10920) Accredited Laboratory



,4 y r 5$ct5 TIE$.
id   RAR analgticol Setvice:. Inc.                                                             (Please Refer To This   105900
AIHA (#8863) NVLAP (#1 143) NY ELAP (10920)  CHAIN     OF    CUSTODY                    Number For Inquires)
4475 Forbes Blvd. - Lanham, MD 20706
(301) 459-2640 * (800) 346-0961 * Fax (301) 459-2643
MAILING ADDRESS:                                                            T
1. Submittal Date:  7 v   z    o                   Job Name/location _____
2. Client Name:  Al f                              Job#                     P.O.:
3.Street/RFD/P.O.Box: 3721  RO 5 50LAPL 1           Bill To-  cfCK 9JCL8Sje
4.City,State,Zip: A     h) V't  7 &IO . l           Phone#: 10  -5' 9 2<                    Fa: F /   9
5. Contact Person:   A.  t                         Submitted By: a Lfe)  'ic - I    (Pnni)                          (signature
>;6.DATE.& IrME RJESULTS REQUIRED:                 Tirie        OIMMED. O24HR^48HR      72R      5-DAY  OTHER(Specify)
SAMPLE DATA:                                                                                    le    ''-"-NV
I. Analysis Type:"sbestos O Lead O NOB-Whole(PLMwrEM) 3 NOB-Whole(PLM Only) LINOB-Whole(TEM Only) FlNOB-Res. Ash(TEM) OTCLP for Pb O0thers0pecify)
2. Total Number Of SampleHiTM    PCM _   _-tLMX      LEAD._        OTHER (Spec,fy)
3. ELECTRON MJCROSCOPYSAMPLES:                                                                               -,
,'.A. Filter   PCOLI  NICE L  ,B Poros ty<  '  '                      Micron               C. Diameter 037mrn 025inm
. 4 LEAD SAIM1PLES -irpeiTpe: EI]Pacie'-EPalintest& ,Ghosi  [:Lynx Pilucts  OOther (specify)
5.ReleaseCriteria/AnalyticalSensitivity: 0.010f/ccO  0005 f/cc  AHERA O  I %ASBESTOS  S/FTl  OTHER El
6. Field Sheet Attached?  nYES  :KNO  If No Then Please Complete The Following:
SAMPLE ANALYSIS INFORMATION                ANALYSIS               MATRIX                  CLIENT CONTACT
CLIENT ID                         VOLUME WIPE
NUMBER      SAMPLE LOCATION  DATE (LnERs) AREA  TEM PCM  PLM LEAD OTHER AIR BLANK BULK WIPE      (LABORATORY STAFF ONLY)
a { r o.: --- .;-:q'> jfiR;',tILt '.-6  .  =  . . -.  r = . I  =  =  =  =  =    Date /t ime:    Contact.    By
I RE ;:RAI L            .     *. ,  _ _
___ .  -'i . .  * .~              ADate/Time                           Contact:    BY:
. ,  ,,p. ,~  ~               -, 5 >?  i, t                    ,< .- ' ;>>- } " ..............     .    .........   ..................... <  :: . ,  ,   = <  = Date/Time:  Contact-  By:
t  st  o<1-- , . - ,           .--  ;1 v1 
REPORTING DATA:             me
1. Verbal ResultsTo Whom? Name I6 PlC-RbT           Phone____________                   Be            e    p     e   r   -
2. DateWritten Results Required  /   / _____
LABORATORY STAFF ONLY:KUSTOD             1 i27j    ?   )
,  1. DatelTirrie,RCVD: \AL, / .  YcZ  (d  Via:  '     *By (Pnni                         Sign   _
2. Date/Tihe Analyzed:  _ / _  /   @   -  By (Pnnt)                         Sign-
-, ..    l   *. __________________              Via. __________ Date ______ /______ / ______ Time: _____Va._D_t_Tme:  Initials:



ANNEX 3
CONSULTANT'S TERMS OF REFERENCE



Terms of reference
Feasibility Study on Health Care Waste Management in Tonga
Background
The World Bank is currently assisting the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga
in preparing a project to support the country's health sector reform. The specific
objective of the project is to (i) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health to
develop and implement health financing policy and collect, manage and use
health information, and (ii) improve the functional and technical quality of central
Hospital (Vaiola Hospital).
A component of the project will support the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital
infrastructure and facilities, to overcome identified major deficiencies, improve
the functional relationships and overall operational efficiency of the hospital, and
enhance the hospital's capacity to efficiently meet its future service obligations.
These developments will be guided by a master plan for the hospital, which is to
be prepared during project preparation.
Medical waste will invariably increase, both in quantity and variety. The concern
is to ensure the minimum level of adverse human and environmental impacts, if
any, from the waste from the hospital.
Objective
The objective of the consultancy is to undertake:
(i)  A feasibility study including a legislation study on health care waste
management for the Vaiola Hospital
(ii)  An asbestos survey report for Vaiola Hospital
Scone of consultancy
(A) A situation analysis on the existing health care waste management in Vaiola
Hospital. This will include:
(i)  A review of the categories and of health care waste generated
(clinical, sharps, pharmaceutical products, cytotoxic and hazardous
chemical, radioactive, organic/non-organic domestic, domestic
recyclable etc)
(ii)  Characterization of health care waste streams and estimation of
quantities of waste effluence issuing from the hospital
(iii) Waste segregation mechanisms
(iv)  Identification of risks associated with the current waste
management practices
(v)   Evaluation of existing training and patientpublic awareness
programs on healthcare waste management at the hospital.



(B) Review and analysis of existing legislative and other regulatory instruments
on health care waste management. This should include an assessment of the
opportunities for strengthening these regulations.
(C) Review any planned donor assistance in health care waste management.
(D) Recommend a process flow for waste minimization, and if necessary, an
economic and environmentally sound treatment/final disposal of healthcare
waste, leading to a choice of technology(ies) for Viola Hospital (autoclaving,
micro-waving, incineration chemical disinfection)
(E) Assess the personnel and other training needs. Also outline approaches to
consultation with regulations, environmental groups and the public, as
necessary.
(F) Development of a preliminary implementation plan (including indicators and
costs) for health care waste management to be included in the Tonga Health
Sector Support Project.
(G) An asbestos survey of the building will be conducted and the survey report.
The survey report would confirm or deny the presence of asbestos in the
building. If present, then a detailed description of asbestos (in terms of type,
location, and quantity) will be prepared including a remediation plan along
with an implementation schedule and estimation of abatement costs.
Output
(i) Preliminary design report and draft feasibility study report.
(ii) Asbestos survey report including remediation plan, implementation
schedule and abatement costs estimation.



