24934
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
infoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/01/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TONGA                                  Project ID: P075230
Project: TONGA HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT            Task Team Leader: Rekha Menon
PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 24, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: August 28, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m): 7.00
Managing Unit: EASHD                            Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Health system performance (P); Other
Status: Lending                                 human development (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Health reform in Tonga is aimed at creating a health system which responds effectively to the health
needs of the population by providing the appropriate range and level of high quality health services.
The specific objective of the project is to support health reform in the Kingdom of Tonga by improving
the capacity of the Ministry of Health to develop and implement health financing policy and collect,
manage and use health information; and, by improving the functional and technical quality of Vaiola
Hospital.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will support the following components.
Component A. StrengtheningHealtt Care Financing: This component will support the review,
development and implementation of policies which define the funding and overall allocation of resources
to health services. In particular, it will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to identify
approaches towards strengthening the financing of health care (including resource mobilization),
improving the allocation of available resources, and developing an appropriate public-private partnership.
Activities undertaken will include the development of National Health Accounts and an
institutionalization plan for its use in planning and the development of a health financing strategy paper
that evaluates various options (user fees, revolving drug funds, insurance etc) and suggests interventions
on how to mobilize resources and improve the allocative and technical efficiency of resource use while
ensuring equitable financial and geographic access to services. Some health financing interventions will
be piloted. A document will be developed that lays out the framework within which a public-private
partnership can be developed and identifies the role of the private sector in the health system. A provider
payment policy will be developed and implemented. These will be achieved through technical support,



2
ISDS
capacity building, studies and extensive consultation with stakeholders and beneficiaries
Component B. Improving Health Information System: This component will assist the Ministry
develop capacity and establish structures for Information Management and Information Technology
Management. It will improve communication and access to management information within the MOH
and clinical support tools such as clinical guidelines, standard care plans, evidence based practice,
through intranet and internet services. It will implement and establish an appropriate integrated
computerized information system for patient care at Vaiola hospital and develop a population-based
information system. Capacity will be developed within the MOH to design, implement field and targeted
facility based surveys and surveillance systems to collect data on a periodic and ad hoc basis.
Component C Upgrading of Health Infrastructure: The component will support the design and
implementation of rehabilitation and facilities improvement at the Vaiola Hospital to overcome identified
major deficiencies and to improve functional relationships and the overall operational efficiency of the
hospital. These developments will be guided by a master plan for the hospital, including equipment and
maintenance plans, (prepared during project preparation) and will enhance the hospital's capacity to
efficiently meet its future service obligations. The project will provide financing for structural and
equipment investment identified in the masterplan. It will also develop institutional and human resource
capacity within the Ministry to manage and maintain capital investments. Funding for this component
will also be provide through a parallel financing mechanism by Japan International Cooperation Agency.
A joint framework for the implementation of this activity will be agreed upon during project preparation.
Component D. Project Management and Coordination: This component includes the operation of
the Project Management Unit (PMU) which will provide project support functions, including financial
and procurement management and liaison with the implementing units in the Ministry of Health. The
project will fund project management consultants, travel, training and other administrative expenses.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented on the existing site of the Vaiola hospital in Nuku'alofa the capital of
Tonga. During the redevelopment of the hospital, hospital workers and patients will be affected by the
construction work but care will be taken to minimize the impact, for example, the work will progress in
stages to avoid any disruption in the normal working of the hospital.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. Environmental issues associated with the Tonga Health Sector Support Project are as follows:
(1)    Healthcare wastes: Wastes from healthcare facilities are of concern to human health and the
environment. A large fraction of healthcare wastes are similar to household wastes, while the remainder
of these wastes may contain potentially harmful microorganisms which can infect hospital patients,
health care employees, patients' visitors, and the general public. In addition, used needles, syringes and
other sharps present risks of injury and infection (such as Hepatitis B and C, and HIV) for health care
employees. In addition, hazards associated with handling or scavenging of health care wastes at disposal
sites are of concern.
(2)    Asbestos, which may potentially be present, at the facility to be demolished: Asbestos could
have harmful health effects if it becomes airborne. As asbestos fibers accumulate in the lungs, several
types of diseases may occur. These include: asbestosis (scarring of the lung tissue), mesothelioma



3
ISDS
(cancer of the plueral lining which is almost always fatal) and lung cancer.
(3)    Disposal of demolition debris: Demolition debris should be managed, transported and disposed
of according to safe environmental practices.
(4)    Sanitary system of the hospital: Untreated liquid wastes from hospitals and sewerage present
risk of surface water contamination and leachate from improperly treated and disposed health care
facility wastes my contaminate groundwater.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes S No    C TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No   C TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              C Yes * No     C TBD
Safety of Dams (OPIBP 4.37)                                C Yes * No    CTBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  C Yes * No    CTBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      C Yes * No    0TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               C Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                               C Yes * No    i TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*  X          Yes * No   C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        C: Yes * No   .. TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The facilities financed under this project generate healthcare wastes (which are in the solid and liquid
forms) that need to be properly managed to prevent adverse health impacts and solid or water
pollution. The project mainly supports rehabilitation of existing hospital infrastructure and extension
of existing buildings. About 40 percent of existing buildings maybe demolished. Existence of
asbestos in the existing structure could be a potential problem. Proper disposal of debris during
contruction would be necessary. The hospital redevelopment will be implemented in phases and most
of the hospital will be functioning on the same site during construction. Movement of workers,
equipment and materials within the hospital site could be an issue of concern.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No adverse long-term impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required.
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



4
ISDS
Healthcare wastes: A hospital waste management system will be part of the redevelopment of the Vaiola
hospital masterplan. A situational analysis of safe disposal of waste, including a legislation study on
waste management, will be prepared prior to appraisal. The study will (i) review the waste handliig
practices at the hospital along with an estimation of different waste types (general wastes, infectious
wastes, sharps, etc.), (ii) review the current disposal practices from the healthcare facility and potential
impacts of these practices on public health and the environment, (iii) assess the institutional framework
for healthcare waste management in Tonga, (iv) recommend a cost-effective waste segregation,
treatment, and disposal scheme (considering alternative options), and, (v) prepare an implementation plan
for recommended activities (e.g. procurement of waste handling materials and treatment equipment, EIC
campaigns, and detailed staff training requirements etc.). During project implementation a review of
healthcare waste management legislation/regulations prepared by the Government of Tonga will be
carried out and recommendations for future modifications will be made. The healthcare waste
management system for the hospital will be implemented during project implementation.
Asbestos: About 40 percent of the 202 bed Vaiola Hospital will be demolished and redeveloped. An
asbestos survey of the building will be conducted and the survey report prepared by project appraisal.
The survey report should confirm or deny the presence of asbestos in the building. If present, then a
detailed description of asbestos (in terms of type, location, and quantity) will be prepared including a
remediation plan along with an implementation schedule and estimation of abatement costs. Removal of
any identified asbestos will be conducted prior to building demolition.
Demolition debris: The demolition contractor will be required to prepare a plan on the safe management
and disposal of the demolition debris. Necessary permits will be obtained prior to disposal.
Sanitary system: The masterplan overview has already reviewed the onsite waste water treatment and
storm water recycling system and ascertained that it is in keeping with the current bast practice
engineering principles.The necessary permits of the sanitary system for the hospital will be obtained
prior to hospital construction.
Social: The social impact of the project will be ascertained through focus groups and surveys.
Disadvantaged and vulnerable groups will be identified.
These groups are expected to benefit from the improvements in quality and efficiency of the health
systems. Access to health care by the poor will be monitored to ensure that they benefit from the
project and in particular, are in no way adversely affected by the project.
Land: As the hospital redevelopment will be on existing site, no new land will be acquired. As a
consequence, no resettlement is planned in the project or expected as a consequence of the project
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The project will be prepared in consultation with all stakeholders. Patients and hospital staff we already
consulted during the preparation of the hospital masterplan overview. The main consultation
mechanisms will involve national consultations with all stakeholders, consultations with donor agencies,
and consultations with health stakeholders at the national, district and village levels.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S I. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks



5
ISDS
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               2/24/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           3/25/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                            4/30/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Rekha Menon                                9/16/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Bruce M. Harris/Person/World Bank    9/16/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Kirsten M. Fehrenkamp/Person/World Bank  9/16/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Bekir A. Onursal/Person/World Bank   9/16/2002
Approved by:                 Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                        9/16/2002
Sector Manager/Director:     Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                        9/16/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEAOCH                      !IT8ACK  S"E MAP  So~cSL



6
ISDS



