                  TRANSMITTAL               OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS

                                                                                 01, 2002
TO      :      OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS            FILES              DATE: October


FROM:          Nina Eejima, Counsel,   LEGEA( j


RE:            Tonga: Japanese       Grant for the Preparation        ofthe
               Proposed Tonga        Health Sector Support        Project

                Grant No.TF051646           (Recipient Executed)


                Attached hereto for your files isthe document described below. Please distributecopies

thereof accordingto applicable standing instructions and as may be additionallyindicated below.


                      Description of Document(s)                              Additional Distribution


                                                                           Department         No. of
                                                                                              Copies
Grant Agreement  (Original) dated September 30, 2002   for the above-         or Name

   mentioned Project, signed by Mr. Klaus   Rohland, Country  Director,

   Tonga, East Asia and Pacific Region,  and countersigned  by

   Hon. Siosiua T. T 'Utoikamanu,   Minister ofFinance,  Tonga, on

   September 30, 2002.




 No. of pages attached: 11



 cc:                    Rekha Menon, EASHD
                        Rosa Muleta   ,LOAG3
                        Legal Files

The World Bank                                             18'.8 H Street N.W.                 (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT      Washington, D.C. 20433              Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                       U.S.A.                             Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                  _    .    n    ~~~September 30, 2002
         Hon. Siosiua T.T 'Utoikamanu                                                    September 30, 2002
                                                                -

                                                                                779
         Minister of Finance               ,       0   *        .

         Ministry of Finance                                              -

         Vuna Road                                .                   -         f-
         Nuku 'alofa                                                                                      /   57I)J '.i )
         Kingdom of Tonga

                                    Re:   Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the proposed
                                          Tonga Health Sector Support Project
                                          Grant Number TF05 1646


         Excellency:

                I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the Association)        to
         indicate the Association's agreement, as administra:or of grant funds    provided by Japan, to make
         a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred three thousand eight hundred       fifty United States
         dollars (US$203,850) (the Grant) to the Kingdom of Tonga (the Recipient).

                The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for   the
         purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.         The
         Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized       to contract and
         withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.

                The Association may disclose this Letter Agreement and information with respect          to this
         Trust Fund, in accordance with the Association's policy on disclosure of     information.


                Please confirm your agreement with the forezoing, on behalf of the Recipient,       by signing,
         dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of Lhis Letter       Agreement. Upon receipt by the
         Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,        this Letter Agreement
         will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                                                     Ver rulv yours,
                              INTERNATION              LO         EBy
                                                                   J          IATION



                                              Authorized Representative
         AGREED:
         KINGDOM OF TONGA

         By:     .      ?
         Name:    S5.T. '          '(AS*L
         Title:  ' f"Ig7~  R   O,c   Fr,Ar
         Date:                         ZWI

                                                                                                 ANNEX

                           Purposes, Terms, and Conditions       of the Grant


  1.    Purposes and Activities

  1.1.    The purpose of the Grant     is to assist the Recipient  in the preparation of the     proposed
 Tonga Health Sector Support     Project. which has as main   objective to support health    reform in the
 KingdorM of Tonga by     improving: (i) the capacitv    of the Ministry of Health     in developing and
 implementing health financing     policy and collecting, managing    and using health information;   and
 (ii) the 'functional and technical   quality of Vaiola Hospital     (the Project).   The activities (the
 Activities) for which theGrant is given are as follows:

          (a) strengthening stakeholder    participation and public   support in health care financing,
 and discussing the results    of surveys and the design    of Activities to be carried    out under the
 Grant with said stakeholders,    through the carrying out   of workshops; and disseminating       reports
 on analysis of data on  mobilization and allocation   of resources. and efficiency   of production, and
 results of said surveys,which is estimated to cost   US$6,200 equivalent;

          (b) compiling previous   work on health information   system and developing       the respective
 framework for information    management and use of    health information in the   health sector, through
 the provision of consultants' services, which is estimated to cost US$34,800 equivalent;

         (c) preparing a masterplan      for the redevelopment      of Vaiola Hospital,      through the
provision of consultants'  services, which is estimated   to cost US$114,350     equivalent; and

         (d) strengthening the    capacity of the Ministry     of Health in the carrying       out of the
implementation of the   proposed Project by assessing   and designing an institutional  support program
for the Ministry of      Health, including training     plans, financial management.        procurement,
monitoring and evaluation,     and the Project's irnlementation       plan, through the provisions      of
consultants' services,  consumables and office     equipment, which is    estimated to cost US$48,500
equivalent.

2.       Implementation Generally

2.1.   The Recipient shall: (a)   through its Ministrv of   Health, carry out the Activities    with due
diligence and efficiency;  (b) promptly provide     the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;   (c) furnish all information  covering the Activities    and the use of the
proceeds of the Grant  as the Association shall   reasonably request; (d)  from time to time exchange
views with the Association's   representatives on the progress   and results of the Activities;   and (e)
take all necessary measures   required to enable the  Association to visit the territory of the Kingdom
of Tonga: for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the   foregoing, the Recipient  shall,
if the Association shall    so request, prepare    and furnish to the Association        promptly upon
completion of the Activities  a report, in form and substance   satisfactory to the Association,   on the
results and impact of the Activities.

  3.       Procurement

  3.1.     Except as the Association    shall otherwise agree,  procurement of   the consultants' services
  and goods required  for the carrying out    of the Activities andto be financed out   of the proceeds of
  the Grant shall be governed by the provisions    of Attachment I to this Annex.

  3.2.   The Recipient shall  ensure that all imported   goods to be financed   out of the proceeds  of the
  Grant shall be insured    against hazards    incident to the acquisition,  transportation and    delivery
  thereof to the placeof use or installation,  and that any indemnity   for such insurance  is payable in a
  freely usable currency  to replace or repair such goods. The   Recipient shall ensure  that any facilities
  relevant to the Activities  are at all times operated and maintained   in accordance with    appropriate
  practices and thatany repairs or renewals   ofsuch facilities arepromptly made as needed.

  4.      Withdrawal of Grant    Proceeds

 4.1.     The amount of the    Grant shall be credited   :o an account opened   by the Association   on its
 books in the name   of the Recipient    (the Grant Account),   and may be withdrawn     therefrom by the
 Recipient in accordance     with the provisions   of this Section 4, for expenditures   in respect of the
 reasonable cost of   goods and services     required for the  Activities and to be   financed out of the
 proceeds ofthe Grant.

 4.2.     The expenditures for   the following items   may be financed out   of the proceeds of  the Grant
 and shall be used exclusively in the   carrying out of theActivities:

                                           Amount of the                            % of
                                           Grant Allocated                       Expenditures
               Item                 (in United States  dollars)                 to be Financed

 (1)    Consultants' services               191,150                           90% for foreign
                                                                              individual consultants
                                                                              and foreign consulting
                                                                              firms, and 90% for local
                                                                              individual consultants   and
                                                                              local consulting firms

(2)     Goods                                  5,000                          100% of foreign
                                                                             expenditures, 100%
                                                                             of local expenditures
                                                                             (ex-factory cost), and
                                                                             95% of local expenditures
                                                                             for other items procured
                                                                             locally

(3)    Workshops                              5,500                          100%

(4)    Incremental operating    costs         2.200                          100%

              TOTAL                        203.850

 For purposes of this paragraph, the term:

         (a) "foreign expenditures" means expenditures         in the currency of any country other than
              that of the Kingdom of Tonga for goods or       services supplied from the territory of any
              country other than that of the Kingdom ofTonga;

         (b) "local expenditures" means any expenditures        that are not foreign expenditures; and

         (c) "incremental operating costs" means        reasonable expenditures directly related       to the
             Activities, incurred by the Recipient (which           expenditures would not have been
             incurred absent the Activities), namely expenditures         for the cost of office supplies,
             consumables, printing and dissemination       of reports, including postage.

4.3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      4.2 above:

         (a) No withdrawals shall be made         from the Grant Account: (i) for payments         made for
expenditures prior to the date of signature      of this Letter Agreement by the Association;         (ii) on
account of payments for any taxes levied      by or in the territory of the Recipient;   (iii) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country   which is not a member of the Association       or for goods
produced in or services supplied from      such territories; or (iv) for the purpose    of any payment to
persons 'or entities, or for any import of     goods, if such payment or import, to the        Association's
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision     of the United Nations Security Council     taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;

         (b)  No withdrawals shall be made from       the Grant Account after August 28,       2003, or such
later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the   Closing Date), provided
that, except in special circumstances, the    Closing Date shall not be extended     beyond the expected
date of the Association's approval offinancing     for the Project. However, withdrawals       may be made
after the Closing Date for expenditures      incurred prior to the Closing Date      if the corresponding
withdrawal application is received    by the Association within four months        after the Closing Date,
after which time any amount of the    Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the         Grant Account shall be
canceled; and

         (c)  If, in the Association's opinion, an amount    ofthe Grant allocated to any of the    items in
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will    be insufficient to finance the expenditures     for such item, the
Association may, by written notice    to the Recipient. reallocate to such    item an amount of the Grant
then allocated to another item which,     in the Association's opinion, will     not be necessary to meet
other expenditures.

4.4.     When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw       any amount from the Grant Account, it shall
deliver to the Association a written  application for withdrawal of such amount      in the form specified
by the Association. Withdrawal applications       shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient     by the
Minister of Finance or such other     person as he or she shall have authorized        in writing; and (b)
accompanied by such evidence in support        of the application as the Association shall       reasonably
request.    Authenticated specimen signatures        of the person authorized to sign           withdrawal
applications shall be provided with       the first application bearing his or      her signature.     Each
withdrawal application for an amount    of the Grant and its supporting evidence     must be sufficient in
form and substance to satisfy the Association    that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw    such amount
from the Grant Account and that     such amount is to be used in the      carrying out of the Activities.

The Association shall pay the amounts      withdrawn by the Recipient from     the Grant Account only to
or on the order of the Recipient.


4.5.     The Association may require      withdrawals firom the Grant Account    to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure    for expenditures under contracts    for: (a) services of consulting  firms

costing less than US$100,000      equivalent; (b) sernices of individual   consultants costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent; (c) goods;       (d) workshops: and (e) incremental      operating costs, all under
such terms and conditions as the    Association shall specify by notice  to the Recipient.


4.6.     Withdrawals of the proceeds      of the Grant shall be made in the  currency of the Grant. The
Association, at the Recipient's   request and acting as an agent   of the Recipient, shall purchase   with

the currency of the Grant withdrawn      from the Grant Account such currencies    as shall be required to
pay for expenditures to be financed        out of the proceeds of the Grant.       Whenever it shall be
necessary, for the purposes    of this Letter Agreement, to    determine the value of one     currency in

terms of another, such value   shall be as reasonably determined   by the Association.


4.7.     To facilitate the carrying out    of the Activities, the Recipient   may open and maintain in
United States dollars a special   deposit account (the Special  Account) in the National Reserve      Bank

of Tonga on terms and conditions        satisfactory to the Association.    Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account   shall be made in accordance    with the provisions of Attachment    II to this

Annex.

5.       Accounts and Audits


5.1.      (a)  The Recipient shall maintain       or cause to be maintained      a financial management
systerni, including records and   accounts, and prepar-e financial  statements in a format acceptable     to

the Association, adequate to     reflect in accordance with sound   accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures   related to the Activities.

          (b) The Recipient shall: (i) have    the records, accounts and financial  statements referred to
in subparagraph (a) above and     the records and accounts for  the Special Account for each    fiscal year

audited, in accordance with    auditing standards acceptable    to the Association, consistently  applied,
by independent auditors acceptable       to the Association; (ii) furnish  to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not    later than six months after the   end of each such year, (A)    certified

copies of the financial statements     referred to in paragraph (a) of   this Section for such year   as so

audited, and (B) an opinion     on such statements, records and    accounts and report of such audit,    by

said auditors, of such scope    and in such detail as the Association   shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association   such other information concerning    said records and accounts and
the audit thereof, and concerning         said auditors. as the Association     shall from time to time

reasonably request.

          (c) For all expenditures with     respect to which withdrawals from     the Grant Account were
 made on the basis of statements       of expenditure, the Recipient   shall: (i) maintain or cause   to be
 maintained, in accordance with       subparagraph (a) above, records      and accounts reflecting such
 expenditures; (ii) retain, until atleast one year after the Association  has received the audit report  for

 the fiscal year in which the       last withdrawal from the Grant      Account was made, all records
 (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)   evidencing such expenditures;     (iii)

 enable the Association's representatives     to examine such records; and   (iv) ensure that such records
 and accounts are included     in the annual audit referred to   in subparagraph (b) above    and that the
 report of such audit contains    a separate opinion by said auditors    as to whether the statements of

 expenditure submitted    during such fiscal year, together  with the procedures     and internal controls
 involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

 6.      Suspension and   Cancellation

 6.1.   The Association    may at any time,   by notice to    the Recipient,    suspend the right   of the
 Recipient to make   further withdrawals  from the Grant   Account if any    of the following   events has
 occurred and is  continuing: (a)the Recipient  has failed to comply   with any of its obligations herein
 specified; or (b)the right of theRecipient, or  any other entity  to which the   International  Bank for
Reconstruction    and Development    (the Bank) has  made a loan    with the guarantee    of the Kingdom
of Tonga, to    make withdrawals    under any loan   agreement with      the Bank or   any development
credit agreement   with the Association  shall have been  suspended.

6.2.   The Association   may, by written  notice to the Recipient,  termninate the  right of the Recipient
to make further  withdrawals from   the Grant Account:   (a) at any time  after the right of the Recipient
to make withdrawals    from the Grant  Account shall  have been suspended     pursuant to the   provisions
of paragraph   6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient  shall have failed  to take action,  satisfactory to the
Association,  within six months  after the effective date hereof,  to carry out the   Activities; or (c) if
the Association   has decided,  at any time   after consultation  with the Recipient,     to withdraw its
support to the   Project; or (d) if the Recipient   has withdrawn     its request for  the Association's
assistance in financing the Project.

                                                                                          Attachment I


                                              Procurement

  Section L.   Consultants' Services

  Part A:      General

          Consultants' services   shall be procured   in accordance with   the provisions of Sections I
  and IV of the     "Guidelines: Selection     and Employment       of Consultants    by World Bank
  Borrowers", published   by the Bank in     January 1997 and    revised in September    1997, January
  1999 and May 2002    (the Consultant  Guidelines), paragraph   1 of Appendix 1   thereto, Appendix  2
 thereto, and the following  provisions of this  Section.

 Part B:       Quality- and Cost-based    Selection

        Except as otherwise    provided in Part    C of this Section,   consultants' services  shall be
 procured under    contracts awarded     in accordance with     the provisions of   Section II of the
 Consultant Guidelines,   and the provisions   of paragrraphs 3.13  through 3.18 thereof  applicable to
 quality- and cost-based  selection of consultants.

 Part C:       Other Procedures   for the Selection of Consultants

 1.     Selection Based  on Consultants'  Qualifications

        Services for Activities  under paragraph 1.1    (d) of the Annex   estimnated to costless than
US$100,000 equivalent      per contract may    be procured under    contracts awarded   in accordance
with the provisions  of paragraphs 3.1  and 3.7 of the Consultant   Guidelines.

2.      Individual Consultants

       Services of individual   consultants for   Activities under  paragraph 1.1 (b)   and (d) of the
Annex may be procured     under contracts  awarded in accordance    with the provisions  of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant  Guidelines.

Part D:       Review by the Association    of the Selection of Consultants

1.     Selection Planning

       A plan for the    selection of consultants,    which shall include    contract cost estimates,
contract packaging,   and applicable selection   criteria and procedures.   shall be furnished  to the
Association for  its review and approval   prior to the issuance   to consultants of any requests for
proposals. Selection    of all consultants'  services shall be  undertaken in accordance    with such
selection plan as shall have been  approved by the Association.

2.     Prior Review

       (a)   With respect to each    contract for the employment    of consulting firms  estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or     more, the procedures   set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of
Appendix 1to the   Consultant Guidelines   shall applv.

       (b)   With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.     The
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. The provisions of
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.

3.     Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

Section nI.  Procurement of Goods

       Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. The review procedures set forth
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the
word "bids", in such paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".

                                                                                         Attachment II



                                           Special Account


1.      For the purposes  ofthis Attachment:


      (a)    the term "eligible items" means the   items set forth in the table in paragraph   4.2 of the

Annex o this Letter  Agreement;

                                                                                         reasonable cost
       b)    the term "eligible  expenditures" means    expenditures in  respect of the
                                                                      out ofthe proceeds    of the Grant;
of goo s and  services requiredfor the Activities and to be financed

and

                                                                                    to US$20,000    to be
       c)    the term "Authorized    Allocation" means     an amount equivalent

withdr wn from the    Grant Account  and deposited   into the Special Account pursuant     to paragraph 3

(a) oft 's Attachment.

                                                                                                        in
2.     : ayments out  of the Special  Account shall be  made exclusively     for eligible expenditures

accord' nce with  the provisions ofthis Attachment.

                                                                                             Account has
3.     After the Association   has received evidence   satisfactory to  it that the Special
                                                                                                        to
been duly opened,     withdrawals of    the Authorized    Allocation and     subsequent withdrawals

replenmsh the Special  Account shall be made as follows:


       ;(a)   The Recipient   shall furnish to the Association  a request or requests   for a deposit into

the Special Account    of an amount or    amounts which    do not exceed    the aggregate  amount of the
                                                                                                        of
Autho ized Allocation.    On the basis of  such request or requests, the Association   shall, on behalf
                                                                                             such amount
the Recipient,  withdraw from   the Grant Account   and deposit into  the Special Account

or amounts as the   Recipient shall have requested.

                                                                                                       the
          (b) (i)     For replenishment    of the Special  Account, the Recipient     shall furnish to
                                                                                                     shall
Assoc ation requests   for deposits into the Special Account   at such intervals  as the Association

 specif8.

                                                                                                    to the
               (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each  such request,  the Recipient   shall furnish
                                                                                       of this Attachment
 Association the  documents and   other evidence  required pursuant   to paragraph 4
                                                                     is requested. On    the basis of each
 for the payment   or payments in  respect of which  replenishment
                                                                                                  Account
 such 1equest, the  Association shall, on behalf of the  Recipient, withdraw     from the Grant
                                                                              have requested   and as shall
 and deposit into  the Special Account  such amountt as  the Recipient shall

 have been shown     by said documents     and other evidence    to have been paid     out of the Special
                                                                                                      from
 Acc4nt for eligible    expenditures.  All such deposits   shall be withdrawn    by the Association
                                                                                                      have
 the GFant Account    under the eligible items, and in the respective equivalent   amounts, as shall

 been ,ustified by said documents   and other evidence.

                                                                                        Recipient shall, at
 4.     For each payment    made by the Recipient   out of the Special   Account, the

 such ime as the    Association shall  reasonably request,  furnish to the Association    such documents

 and other evidence   showing that such  payment was made     exclusively for  eligible expenditures.

                                                                                                  shall not
  5.     Notwithstanding   the provisions  of paragraph 3  of this Attachment,   the Association

  be re uired to make  further deposits into the Special Account:

                                                                                that all further  withdrawals
       (a)     if, at any time,   the Association    shall have   detemiined

shouldl be made   by the Recipient    directly from the Grant Account;

                                                                                         within the period  of
       I(b)    if the Recipient   shall have failed   to furnish to   the Association,
                                                                                Agreement,   any of the   audit
time specified    in paragraph   5.1 (b) (ii)  of the Annex    to this Letter
                                                                                        in respect of the audit
report required    to be furnished   to the Association   pursuant to  said paragraph

of the (ecords  and accounts    for the Special  Account:

                                                                  notified the  Recipient   of its intention to
        (c)    if, at any time,   the Association    shall have
                                                                                     from the Grant   Account
suspe Id in  whole or in part   the right of the  Recipient to  make withdrawals
                                                                                Agreement; or
pursu      to the provisions  of paragraph   6.1 of the Annex    to this Letter

                                                                                                   of twice the
        (d)     once the total  unwithdrawn     amount of the  Grant shall  equal the equivalent

amou] t of the   Authorized    Allocation.

                                                                                          amount of the   Grant
Ther after,   withdrawals    from the Grant   Account of   the remaining   unwithdrawn
                                                                                                          Such
 shall follow   such procedures     as the Association     shall specify  by notice   to the Recipient.
                                                                                               shall have been
 furthe r withdrawals    shall be made   only after and   to the extent  that the Association
                                                                                        as of the date  of such
 satisfed that  all such amounts     remaining on   deposit in the   Special Account

 notic will be    utilized inmaking payments      for eligible expenditures.

                                                                                that any payment     out of the
 6.      (a)    If the Association     shall have   determined    at any time
                                                                                     not eligible  pursuant to
 Spec 1IAccount:        (i) was made     for an expenditure     or in an amount
                                                                                              furnished to   the
 para.raph    2 of this Attachment;        or (ii) was    not justified   by the evidence
                                                                                             (A) provide   such
 Assofiation,    the Recipient   shall, promptly    upon notice    from the Association:
                                                                                                Account (or,   if
 addit onal evidence     as the Association    may request:   or (B) deposit   into the Special
                                                                                                        of such
 the      .ssociation
                    shall so request,  refund to the  Association)    an amount equal    to the amount
                                                                                                shall otherwise
  payn ent or  the portion   thereof not so   eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                                                                                             be made until   the
  agre6, no further     deposit by   the Association    into the Special   Account shall
                                                                                                  be.
  Reci ient has   provided such   evidence or   made such    deposit or refund,  as the case may

                                                                               that any amount   outstanding   in
          (b)    If the Association    shall have determiined    at any time
                                                                      payments for   eligible expenditures,   the
  the 'pecial   Account will    not be required    to cover further
                                                                                              Association  such
  Recipient shall,     promptly upon     notice from     the Association,    refund to the

  outs anding   amount.

