Page  1
Renderer
12/15/2004 01:15 PM
*** DRAFT ***
Subject:
Conformed Copy - C3814 - Health Sector Support Project - Development Credit Agreement
File to IRIS Status:      Submitted for processing into IRIS
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3814-TON
Development Credit Agreement
(
Health Sector Support Project)
between
KINGDOM OF TONGA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 24, 2003
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3814-TON
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 2003, between the KINGDOM OF TONGA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Asbestos Survey
 
Report” means the report adopted by the Borrower on April 7, 
2003, satisfactory to the Association, referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
for managing and monitoring environmental impacts under Part C.1 of the Project, and as such 
report may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.
(b)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in each 
calendar year.
(d)
“Ministry of Health” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, and any 
successor thereto.
Page  3
(e)
“Ministry of Works” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works.
(f)
“National Health Accounts Steering Committee” means the committee 
established by the Ministry of Health on May 31, 2002, and to be maintained by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(g)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Health on February 3, 2003, and to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance 
with paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h)
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee established by the Ministry 
of Health on May 31, 2002, and to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 
1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
(j)
“Vaiola Hospital” means the public hospital located in the Borrower’s capital.
(k)
“Vaiola Hospital Masterplan” means the masterplan which sets forth the 
parameters for the carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project, to be adopted by the Borrower, 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said masterplan may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Association.
(l)
“Working Group” means each group established by the Ministry of Health on 
December 14, 2002; January 23, 2003; or May 6, 2003; and to be maintained by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and “Working Groups” means, 
collectively, all of said Working Groups.
(m)
“Sub-working Group” means the group established by the Ministry of Health on 
May 31, 2002, and to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eight million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR8,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
Page  4
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
separate special deposit account in the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (its Central Bank) or in
 
a
commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank,
 
appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15
and July 15
in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 15
 
and 
July 15
 
commencing January 15, 2014,
 
and ending July 15, 2043.
 
Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on July 15, 2023,
 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public 
health and safety practices, and environmental and social standards acceptable to the 
Association, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
Page  6
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
Page  7
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set forth in paragraphs 13 and 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
Page  8
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the services of an implementation coordinator, a procurement officer, and a 
Project accountant, all with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and selected in accordance with paragraph 4 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 
3
to this Agreement, have been retained for purposes of assisting the Project Management Unit in 
the carrying out of procurement, accounting, disbursement, and financial management of Project 
activities in accordance with paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a
 
financial management system for the Project 
within the Ministry of Health, satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 5 (a) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower has adopted a financial management manual for the Project, 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Asbestos Survey
 
Report has been duly adopted by 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its respective terms 
and the applicable laws of the Borrower.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Vuna Road, Nuku ‘alofa
Kingdom of Tonga
Facsimile: 676-26-011
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dubai, 
United Arab Emirates, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF TONGA
By /s/ Siosiua T.T. 'Utoikamanu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xian Zhu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
4,250,000
84%
(2)
Goods
980,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
95% of local expenditures
for other items procured 
locally
Page  11
(3)
Consultants’ services
1,840,000
90% for individual 
consultants and 
100% for consulting
firms
(4)
Training and workshops
380,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating costs
160,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
     390,000
TOTAL
8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures directly 
related to the Project, incurred by the Borrower (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project), for: (i) bank charges relating to the Special Account; and (ii) the 
operation of the Project Management Unit, including costs for communication, technology 
support, office consumables, transportation, and travel per diem of Project staff, but excluding 
salaries and allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR190,000
 
may be made 
in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4), and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after February 3, 2003. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and workshops; and (e) 
incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the performance of its 
Page  12
health sector by supporting selected reforms to said health sector, including: (i) the development 
and implementation of appropriate health financing policies, and health information systems; and 
(ii) the improvement of the administrative, functional and technical quality of health facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Strengthening Health Care Financing
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health in: (1) planning resource needs for 
the health sector; (2) financing primary health care and preventive services; and (3) developing 
options to finance health services and implementing the selected option, including the provision 
of technical assistance, training, and the carrying out of studies and workshops. 
Part B
: Improving Health Information Management
Improving the information database for policy and management decisions in the Ministry 
of Health and at Vaiola Hospital, and community-based data collection and management of 
selected non-communicable diseases by:
1.
Establishing a Health Information Center within the Ministry of Health to collect, store, 
back up, analyze, and disseminate health related data throughout the Ministry of Health, 
including the provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment.
2.
Strengthening information management and developing a hospital information system for 
Vaiola Hospital by improving information processes, collection, storage and use of medical 
records, including the provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment.
3.
Strengthening the monitoring and management of selected non-communicable diseases 
by piloting a community-based program for identification and treatment of diabetes and 
hypertension and
 
improving referral links between the community and the diabetes clinic at 
Vaiola Hospital, including the provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment.
Part C
: Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital
Improving the administrative, technical and functional efficiency of Vaiola Hospital by:
1.
Rehabilitation and extension of Vaiola Hospital, including equipment.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of Vaiola Hospital in hospital management through the 
development and implementation of management and human resource policies, including the 
provision of technical assistance ant training.
3.
Strengthening health care waste management by preparing, adopting and implementing a 
health care waste management policy and a health care waste management plan, including the 
provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment, including vehicles.
Page  13
Part D
: Project Management and Coordination
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health in carrying out day-to-day 
management, monitoring and coordination of Project activitie
s, procurement, accounting, 
disbursement, and financial management; liaison and reporting activities; including the provision 
of technical assistance and training. 
2.
Carrying out of annual audits of the accounts and financial statements of expenditures 
relating to the Project
.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than: (a) $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (b) $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures; all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $320,000 equivalent, and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  14
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods to be procured in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured from Inter Agency Procurement Services Office, 
World Health Organization, or United Nations Children’s Funds, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts for works; and (ii) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods: (i) estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent and procured under paragraph 1 (a) of Part C of this Section; and (ii) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent and procured under paragraph 1 (b) of Part C of 
this Section; the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
Page  15
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for: (a) the design and supervision of the renovation works of the Vaiola 
Hospital under Part C of the Project, and (b) the carrying out of health care financing under Part 
A
of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of audits under Part D.2 of
 
the Project estimated to cost less 
than $53,000
 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the carrying out of financial management, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Page  16
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, or 
selected on a sole-source basis if the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines are 
met, subject to prior approval of the Association.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
(as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Association.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report 
on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Management
Page  17
1.
The Borrower shall maintain: 
(a)
the Project Steering Committee headed by the Minister of Health and comprising 
representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs, Ministry of Works, Crown Law Department, Central Planning Department, and 
Department of Statistics, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and assigned 
with funds and resources as shall be necessary to undertake the overall coordination of Project 
implementation and achieve the Project objectives; and
(b)
the National Health Accounts Steering Committee headed by the Director of 
Health and comprising representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Ministry of 
Finance, Department of Statistics, and Central Planning Department, with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and assigned with funds and resources as shall be necessary to 
assist the Sub
-
working Group in the carrying out of its respective activities under the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall retain, until completion of the Project, the following staff, all with 
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a Project director within the Ministry of Health for purposes of carrying out the 
overall management of the Project, heading the Project Management Unit, and acting as 
executive secretary to the Project Steering Committee; and
(b)
three (3) implementation managers within the Ministry of Health,
 
one of said 
implementation managers for purposes of managing the carrying out of Part A of the Project,
 
one
of said implementation managers for purposes of managing the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project, and one of said implementation managers for purposes of managing the carrying out of 
Part C of the Project, and all of said implementation managers shall report
to the Project director.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain:
(a)
for purposes of assisting the respective implementation manager within the 
Ministry of Health in managing the carrying out of Parts A,
 
B,
 
and C of the Project, three (3)
 
Working Groups, one (1)
 
for the carrying out of Part A of the Project, one (1)
 
for the carrying out 
of Part B of the Project, and one (1) for the carrying out of Part C of the Project, respectively; 
and
(b)
for purposes of assisting in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, one (1) 
Sub-working Group. 
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain a Project Management Unit within the Ministry of Health, until 
completion of the Project, headed by the Project director with qualifications and experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, assigned with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers, including an administrative assistant, and provided with such powers, responsibilities, 
organization and funding as shall be required to enable it to carry out the day-to-day 
management, monitoring and coordination of Project activities, including procurement, 
accounting, disbursement, and financial management; and 
Page  18
(b)
retain an implementation coordinator, a procurement officer, and a Project 
accountant, within the Project Management Unit, until completion of the Project, all with 
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to be 
selected in accordance with paragraph 4 of Part C of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
for purposes of assisting the Project Management Unit in the carrying out of procurement, 
accounting, disbursement, and financial management of Project activities.
5.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a financial 
management system for the Project within the Ministry of Health, acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
prepare, adopt, and thereafter implement, a financial management manual for the 
Project, acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
not amend, revise, cancel, waive or abrogate any provisions of the financial 
management manual without the prior agreement of the Association
.
6.
The Borrower shall, by February 28, 2004, retain the services of: 
(a)
an independent auditor with qualifications and experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
Part C of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for purposes of carrying out the audits 
provided for in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, until completion of the Project; and 
(b)
a procurement advisor with qualifications and experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of 
Part C of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for purposes of assisting the Project 
Management Unit in preparing procurement documents, conducting bidding processes, and 
training staff of said Project Management Unit in project management and procurement.
Project Implementation
7.
For purposes of the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall by April 30September 
30 of each calendar year, commencing April 30, 2004, until completion of the Project, prepare 
and furnish to the Association, for its review and approval an annual work plan for the Project 
activities to be carried out during the following Fiscal Year. 
8.
For purposes of the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for its review and approval:
(a)
by January 31, 2004, the Vaiola Hospital Masterplan and, thereafter, finalize and 
adopt such masterplan, as said masterplan may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Association; and
(b)
by March 31 of each calendar year, commencing March 31, 2004, until 
completion of the Project, a rolling two-year plan for the redevelopment activities for the Vaiola 
Hospital, such plan to be based on the Vaiola Hospital Masterplan and, thereafter, finalize and 
Page  19
adopt such plan.
9.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Asbestos Survey
 
Report, and (b) not amend, revise, cancel,
 
waive or abrogate 
the provisions of the Asbestos Survey
Report without the prior agreement of the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that budgetary 
funds allocated for the health sector shall be increased from twelve percent (12%) of the total 
recurrent budget in Fiscal Year 2004 to: (a) in Fiscal Year 2005, twelve and a half percent 
(12.5%) of said total recurrent budget; (b) in Fiscal Year 2006, thirteen percent (13%) of said 
total recurrent budget; (c) in Fiscal Year 2007, thirteen and a half percent (13.5%) of said total 
recurrent budget; and (d) in Fiscal Year 2008, fourteen percent (14%) of said total recurrent 
budget.
11.
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall take all such action as shall be 
necessary to ensure that budgetary funds allocated for maintenance of Vaiola Hospital shall be 
increased from five percent (5%) of said budgetary funds in Fiscal Year 2004 to: (a) in Fiscal 
Year 2005, seven percent (7%) of said budgetary funds; (b) in Fiscal Year 2006, eight percent 
(8%) of said budgetary funds; (c) in Fiscal Year 2007, ten percent (10%) of said budgetary funds; 
and (d) in Fiscal Year 2008, twelve percent (12%) of said budgetary funds.
12.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain within its Ministry of 
Health the following staff, all with qualifications and experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a health care waste management officer;
(b)
an information technology manager;
(c)
a health planning officer;
(d)
a policy/national health accounts analyst;
(e)
a health statistics officer; and 
(f)
a senior hospital engineer.
Monitoring and Reports
13.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about March 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
Page  20
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
14.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 13 of this Schedule, and except as provided 
for in paragraph 13 (b) above, the Borrower shall, by September 30May 31 and November 30 of 
each calendar year, commencing May 31, 2004, until completion of the Project, prepare and 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments progress reports in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $720,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $360,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  21
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  22
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Indicators
Targets
End of the Borrower’s Fiscal Year
FY 04FY 05FY 06FY 08
Resource allocation targets 
for the proportion of MOH 
Page  23
resources allocated to 
primary and preventive care
11%  
-----
15%
20%
Proportion of MOH 
revenues from 
non-government sources
2.50%
-----
5%
8%
Bed occupancy rate at 
Vaiola Hospital
45.60%
-----
47.80%
50.20%
Increased number of 
diagnosed diabetics and 
hypertensives receiving 
treatment in the community
Baseline data completed
-----
Baseline plus 
10%
Baseline plus 20%
Proportion of 
poor exempted 
from user fees
-----Baseline data completedBaseline plus 
3%Baseline plus 
10%
Waste 
management 
targets met 
according to 
schedule
Baseline data completedAnnual target metAnnual target metAnnual 
target met
Maintenance targets met 
according to schedule
Baseline data completedAnnual target metAnnual target metAnnual target met
DCA-Conf..doc
To:
