                                                 Documentof
                                              The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                                                     ReportNo 25501




                                    PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                            PROPOSEDCREDIT

            INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 8.0MILLION(US$10.94MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE KINGDOMOFTONGA


                                                  FORA

                                  HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORTPROJECT

                                               June 27,2003




HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
East Asia andPacificRegion




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not beotherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective May 13,2003)

                           Currency Unit = Tonga Pa'anga(T$)
                                    TOP 1 = US$0.4634
                                    US$1 = T$2.158


                                    FISCALYEAR
                                    July 1 -- June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                    Asian Development Bank
ADT                    Admissioflischarge Transfer
AusAID                 Australian Agency for International Development
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CERMP                  Cyclone Emergency Relief Management Project
CVD                    Cardio Vascular Disease
EAP                    Environmental ProtectionAgency
EPSRP                  Economic and Public Sector ReformProgram
ED                     Emergency Department
EU                     European Union
FMR                    Financial Management Report
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
H I S                  Health Information Systems
HPU                    HealthPromotionUnit
ICU/ICC                Intensive Care Unit/Coronary Care Unit
IDA                    International Development Association
M C H                  Maternal & ChildHealth
MOF                    MinistryofFinance
M O H                  Ministry of Health
NCD                    NonCommunicable Diseases
NGO                    Non Government Organization
NZAID                  New Zealand OverseasDevelopment Assistance
PHRD                   Policy and Human ResourcesDevelopment
PIP                    Project ImplementationPlan
PMU                    Project Management Unit
SOE                    Statement of Expenditure
SPC                    Secretariat for Pacific Community
WHO                    World HealthOrganization

                         Vice President:       Jemal ud-dinKassum
               Country Managermirector:        Xian Zhu
                Sector Managermirector:        EmmanuelY. Jimenez
         Task Team Leadermask Manager:         Rekha Menon

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                     TONGA
                                    HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




      A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                        Page

         1. Project development objective                                                      2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      2
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         2
         3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  7

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                 9
         2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                       11
         3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
         4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                       12

      D.ProjectRationale

         1. Projectalternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                             14
         2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       15
         3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                  15
         4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
         5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                         17

      E.Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                           17
         2. Financial                                                                          18
         3. Technical                                                                          19
         4. Institutional                                                                      19
         5. Environmental                                                                     22
         6. Social                                                                            23
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25



  This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
1 theperformance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
  without World Bank authorization.

F.Sustainability andRisks

  1. Sustainability                                                                      26
  2. Critical risks                                                                      26
  3. Possible controversialaspects                                                       29


G. MainCredit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             29
  2. Other                                                                               29

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           32

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             32



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                           33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    37
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    52
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    53
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                            59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            68
Annex 11: Summary of EnvironmentalReviews                                                70




MAP(S)

                                                    TONGA
                                    HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

                                     ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                    EASHD

Date: June 27,2003                                      Team Leader: Rekha Menon
Sector Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                    Sector(s): Health (100%)
Country ManagerDirector: Xian Zhu                       Theme(s): Health system performance (P), Other human
Project ID: PO75230                                     development (S), Childhealth (S), Population and
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)        reproductive health (s)
        -

  Project Financing Data
  [ ] Loan     [XI Credit     [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Other:
~~




  For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Amount (US$m): $10.94

  ProposedTerms (IDA): Standard Credit
 Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
 Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%                              Service charae: 0.075%
                                                                     -
rinancing Plan (US$m):       Source                                 Local         Foreign            Total
BORROWER                                                       I       1.33     1        0.11  I        1.44
DA                                                                     1.43              9.51          10.94
rotal:                                                                 2.76              9.62          12.38
 Borrower: KINGDOMOF TONGA
 Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: P. 0.Box 59
Nuku'alofa, Kingdomof Tonga
Contact Person: Mr.Sunia Soakai, Senior Health Planning Officer
Tel: (676) 23 200 ext. 14             Fax: (676) 24291               Email: soakai@kalianet.to

~
EstimatedDisbursements Bank FY/US$m):
            I         I          1         I           I           I           I
~~



    FV        2004       2005       2006       2007        2009       2009
     Annual    0.50        0.95       2.30        4.00        3.OO      0.19
Zumulative     0.50        1.45       3.75        7.75       10.75      10.94
Project implementationperiod: 5 years
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 11/01/2003 Expectedclosing date: 03/31/2009

 A. Project DevelopmentObjective

 1. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (seeAnnex 1)

Health reform inTonga i s aimedat creating a health system which responds effectively to the health
needs of the population by providingthe appropriate range and level of high quality health services.

The objective of the Project i s to assist the Kingdom of Tonga inimproving the performance of its health
sector by supporting selected reforms to said health sector, including: (i)
                                                                          the development and
implementation of appropriate health financing policies, and health information systems; and (ii) the
improvement of the administrative, functional and technical quality of health facilities.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Progress in achievement of the project objectives will be assessedusingthe following key indicators:

      i.IncreasedpercentageofMinistryofHealthrevenuesderivedfromnongovemmentsources

     ii.IncreasedpercentageofMinistryofHealthbudgetallocatedtoprimaryandpreventivecare

    iii.Increasedbed-occupancyratebyward,reducedaveragelengthofstayinselectedwardsand
         increased bed turnover rate in Vaiola hospital

    iv. Increased proportion of patients diagnosed with diabetes or hypertension who encounter the
         health system to receive secondary prevention on at least two occasions per year

     v. Improved waste management and hospital maintenance

To monitor the social impact of the Project on disadvantaged groups, indicators will be monitored
separately for those identified as dlsadvantaged groups. Benchmarks will be further defined, and
baselines will be developed, and targets will be set according to the schedule in Annex 1.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-74          Dateof latest CAS discussion: May 30, 2000

The Project has been developed within: (a) the Bank's Pacific Regional Strategy (May 30,2000)
that includes Tonga and (b) the Bank andEast Asia and Pacific (EM) Region's Health, Nutrition
and Population (HNP) sector strategies.

The Project i s consistent with the Bank's Pacific Regional Strategy which aims to buildhuman
capital, policies, institutions and infrastructure needed to bringabout equitable and sustainable
growth. It seeks to achieve these objectives by reducing disparities within countries and
promotingequitable access to the benefits of development through focussed lending particularly
inthe social sectors, education andhealth. The Project's goals which aimto enhancethe
performance of the health sector and secure sustainable health financing are also aligned with the
Bank and EAPregion's HNP sector strategies.

2. Mainsector issuesand Government strategy:
Background. The IGngdomof Tonga has a population of 100,672, with a highliteracy rate of 99 percent
and a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of over US$1,500. The UNDPHumanDevelopment
Index ranks Tonga as sixth among the fourteen Pacific Islands States and as 107 globally, grouping it
with countries such as Honduras, Egypt, Guatemala, and Gabon. The fiscal situation in the country i s


                                                     - 2 -

 deteriorating with real GDP growth declining to around 0.8 percent in 2000/01 after havingrisen to
 around 5.9 percent in 1999/2000. Although poverty i s not considered a problemin Tonga (its Human
Poverty Index i s low at 5.2), Tonga i s very vulnerable to external economic shocks and natural disasters
 which threaten the sustainability of livelihood. Urbanization i s on the increase- around two-thirds of the
population inthe Tongatapu (the most populous island) now live in the capital Nuku'alofa compared to
one-third the population in 1986.

The Kingdom o f Tonga has developed an outline for a public sector reformprogram, under the Economic
and Public Sector Reform Program (EPSRP),which was approved inDecember 1999 and is currently
supported by the ADB, NZAIDand AusAID. It is envisaged that the implementation of the EPSRP will
focus on policies to promote private sector leadership ineconomic growth, strengthen public sector
management, augment the efficiency of the financial sector and service delivery, and improve social
security. Healthhas been recognized as a core function of the government inthis reformprogram.

Sector Issues

Health status indicators. Tonga has achieved remarkable improvements inthe health status of its
population over the past two decades. Infant mortality rates have decreasedfrom around 29.7 per 1000
live birthsin 1980 to 13.1in 2000. Life expectancy i s 69.8 years for males and 71.8 for females. This i s
among the highest inthe Pacific. Communicable diseases are mostly under control except for
intermittent typhoid outbreaks thought to be associated with chronic carriers. Non-communicable
diseases-especially diabetes and cardiovascular disease-are       now recognized as the major health
problems and account for the majority of deaths as well as the largest financialburden to the health
system. Tonga's health transition took place as a result of concerted efforts to extend the reach of water
and sanitation throughout the country, as well as income gains (with associated improvements in
nutritionalstatus), investments ineducation and a strong emphasis on immunization. More than 60
percent of the population has access to sanitary waste disposal facilities inrural areas and 80 percent in
urban areas, and water quality in most areas i s considered to meet international standards. Sanitation
continues to have an important role inTonga's public health efforts: a dedicated team of health
inspectors monitors sanitationthroughout the country on a full-time basis, and the status of the chief
health inspector within the MOHi s higher than in most similar countries. Immunizationcoverage rates
are high, with quarterly campaigns in addition to routine service delivery through Maternal and Child
Healthclinics. H[lstorically, adequatenutritional intake was a function of reasonably highincomes and
Tonga's own agricultural productivity; at present, however, nutritional issues relate more to over-
nutrition and its consequences (e.g.obesity, diabetes, highblood pressure, cardiovascular diseases etc.).

Inefficiencies in health service delivery and the significant role of VaiolaHospital. Tonga's health
system is composed of four types of facilities. Basic preventive and curative health services are provided
inruralareas at healthcenters (of which there are 14inthe country) andinurban areas at maternal and
child health clinics (of which there are 34). The former are staffed by health officers or nurse
practitioners; the latter are staffed by public health nurses only. Hospital care and outpatient services are
provided at one of four hospitals around the country: three in the outer islands and one on Tongatapu.
Each of the main outer island groups has its own hospital: Niu'eiki Hospital on `Eua (16 beds for a
population of 5,000),Niu'uihospital on Ha'apai (28 beds for a population of 8,000), and Prince Ngu
Wellington Hospital on Vava'u (61 beds for a population of 16,500). Physical conditions at these
hospitals are variable. Niu'eiki Hospital on `Eua was built with AusAID funds in 1990 and i s in
reasonably good condition in spite of poor maintenance. Niu'uiHospital on Ha'apai was built in 1979
and requires more extensive rehabilitation. Prince NguWellington Hospital on Vava'u i s inpoor
condition but will be rehabilitated by a proposedEuropean Union Project inthe next few years. The
private medical sector i s small and consists mostly of after-hours private practice by government doctors


                                                      - 3 -

and a handful of other clinics.

Vaiola Hospitalon Tongatapu (202 beds) serves as a national outpatient referral center and tertiary
hospital as well as the provider of primary curative services for residents of the capital city, Nuku'alofa.
Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the role of the Vaiola Hospital. Urbanization has
brought a large share of the population to Nuku'alofa and has increased the population of Tongatapu to
68 percent of Tonga as a whole. Changing diseasepatterns have also been influential. Tonga i s at an
advanced stage of the health transition, and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) now represent a
substantial share o f its burden of disease. This has increased the number of health center referrals to the
Vaiola outpatients clinic and has also increased the demand for tertiary hospital care. The bed occupancy
rate at the outlying hospitals i s therefore low, between 21 and 25 percent, while that of Vaiola hospital
has remainedat around 56 percent since the late 1990s. (The apparent over capacity at Vaiola itself i s a
function of the hospital's original design as a communicable diseasehospital designed for large numbers
of long-stay patients. With communicable diseases now largely under control, wards such as the
isolation unit have been operating at significantly below capacity, while other wards such as maternity,
medicine and surgery, have become increasingly full.) The low bed utilization inthe outer island
hospitals also reflects their small catchment populations: 5,000 in `Eua, 8,000 on Ha'apai and 16,500 in
Vava'u. These compare with a population of around 70,000 on Tongatapu, of which around 47,000 are
inor around Nuku'alofa itself. Inview of these small catchment areas and low utilization rates, the
M O Hhas deliberately accepted some staff vacancies in the outer islandhospitals and has asked existing
staff to take on additional functions (such as radiography) rather than assigning specializedpersonnel for
these tasks. Clinical human resources are therefore increasingly concentrated at Vaiola Hospital, though
public health staff are well represented in the outer islands and at health centers inthe rural areas of
Tongatapu.

The current structure of Vaiola hospital does not adequately support its functional needs, and the
efficiency of clinical practice has been hamperedby the poor physical facilities. For example,
outpatients, emergency, pharmacy andradiology departments are cramped and constrain the service able
to be provided. Waiting areas for outpatients and patient facilities (such as bathrooms) in wards are
inadequate, and service spaces, equipment and support ("hotel services") especially the lutchen are in
very poor condition. A client satisfaction survey conducted under the ongoing AusAID-support Tonga
Health Project identifiedthese as beingmajor areas of dissatisfaction among service users.

There are no primary curative services inNuku'alofa other than the Vaiola outpatients clinic. Maternal
& ChildHealth(MCH) services are delivered by public health nurses in 19M C Hclinics around
Nuku'alofa, but there are no health officers or nurse practitioners to deliver low-level curative care.
These cases are therefore received at the Vaiola outpatients clinic. The Ministry of Health (MOH) has
considered several options to address this situation, such as establishing health centers alongside existing
M C Hclinics or constructinga dedicated PHC clinic for Nuku'alofa, either on the existinghospital site
but disconnected from the hospital itself, or ina separate site indowntown Nuku'alofa. No decisionhas
been made on how to proceed. Inthe meantime, Vaiola and its clinical staff are servicing the primary
curative needs of the 47,000 residents of Nuku'alofa inaddition to meeting their responsibilities as a
referral center. Outside Nuku'alofa, however, the M O Hi s planning to improve the clinical capability of
health officers and nurse practitioners at the health center level in order to decentralize the routine
management of diabetes, hypertension and other common NCDs. This i s intended to reduce the public's
reliance on Vaiola's outpatients clinic for low-level care and strengthen its role as a referral center, both
of which will in turn help to absorb the effect of anticipated increases in NCD prevalence over the
coming decades.

Vaiola Hospitalalso serves as the center of the Tonga's public health system and the headquarters of its


                                                     - 4 -

 MOH. Communicable disease surveillance, healthpromotion andhealth inspections are all supervised
 by staff based at Vaiola. Several of these functions are currently beingstrengthened. Staff havebeen
 added to the health promotionunit, and there is widespread recognition of the needto develop and
 expandcommunity-based preventive services to deal with the increasingburden of NCD riskfactors. It
 i s recognized that more staff will be necessaryto develop this process further. The ultimate objective of
 these changes i s to develop an integrated system of service delivery in which preventive care, curative
 care, health promotion, health inspection and community outreach will all be based at the health center
 level. The process has received some technical support from PhaseIIof an AusAID-supported Tonga
Health Project buti s still inits early stages. Inthe meantime, improving administrative facilities at the
M O H will provide the necessaryroom for these expansions and will complement these ongoing efforts to
 strengthen public health services through financing, managerial and programmatic reforms.

Public healthprograms and the rising burden of non-communicablediseases. A number of initiatives
have been launched to reduce the burdenof NCDs over the past few years. On the preventive side, a
comprehensive NCD controlplanhas been developed by the MOHwith the assistanceof WHO, and a
series of subsidiary activities have been identifiedand delegated to various actors in the health sector;
tobacco control legislation was passedin 2000 and i s currently being implemented; the country's
anti-smokmg programi s also being strengthened, with some aspects beingmanaged by the MOHand
others by an NGO, Tonga Family Health; a NationalNCD Advisory Committee has been established
since 2001 to monitor NCD-related activities and advise the Minister of Healthregardingtheir progress;
and the MOH's Health PromotionUnithas been strengthened to increase its focus on the prevention of
obesity, principally by encouraging physical activity. Especially encouragmg i s a pilot Project being
conductedby the HealthPromotion Unit (HPU)in which village volunteers are trained as aerobics
instructors and mentored by HPUstaff to lead their communities in aerobics sessions and frequent walks,
and a similar Project aimed at increasingphysical activity by M O Hstaff. These activities are planned to
be scaled up and extended to communities on the outer islands over the next few years. MOHstaff have
also been instrumental inbuildingsupport for a "People's Footpath" from Vaiola Hospital to the
seashore, also designed to promote physical activity.

On the curative side, the diabetes clinic at Vaiola hospital has developed a comprehensive program of
riskfactor counseling andperiodic follow-up for existing diabetics, andhas developed clinical guidelines
for diabetes care for use by all medical officers in Tonga. It has also started a limited primary prevention
programfocused on the families of those with type IIdiabetes. While there i s no formal evidence of a
change in NCD prevalence yet, the government's commitment to developing and implementing a national
plan of NCD prevention and control i s a positive sign.

Lack offinancial sustainability and allocational inefficiencies. With around 8 percent of its GDP going
to health, Tonga spends more on health as a percentage of GDP than most of the neighboring countries in
the region. The 2002-2003 budgetallocated around 12percent (T$10.14 million) to the health sector.
This represents a 14percent increase from 1997/98. Of this, 31percent was allocatedfor policy and
planning, 11percent for preventive services, 55 percent for curative services and 3 percent for dental
services. Resource allocation i s skewed towards curative care, with 66 percent of health expenditures
allocated for hospital care. Expenditures on salaries account for 68 percent of the government budget.
There i s relatively little (5 percent) available for maintenance. Donor support provides T$2.75 million
inadditional assistance.Inspite of the proportionof the governmentbudget allocatedto health, the
public health sector remains under funded. There i s increasingpressure on the Ministry of Health to pay
more attention to cost containment and the development of methods to mobilize new revenues for the
health sector. Inan effort to improve its oversight and management of the budget, the Mlnistry of Health
has introducedprogrambudgeting (with support from AusAIDprogram) since FY 1998-99. Overseas



                                                       - 5 -

referrals for civil servants account for an unsustainably large and increasingshare of government health
care expenditures, at more than 5 percent of these expenditures. Efforts are under way to develop an
insurance program to support overseas referrals for civil servants.

Health information collection and use. Most of the effort inhealthinformationmanagement currently
goes into the maintenance of patient medical records at Vaiola hospital, basic clinical data entry from
outer islandhospitals and community health centers. These data are collated within the Ministry of
Health and used primarily in the production of an Annual Report on the overall status of the health
sector. Some of these data have been used to produce basic analytical reports on an ad hoc basis (for
example on number of patients attending community health centers, and breakdown of attendance by
clinical presentation). However, systematic mechanisms for channeling information to productive uses,
such as public health promotioninitiatives, improvements inpreventive and curative patient care, or
disease surveillance are not yet inplace.

Effective collection, processing and management of administrative and resources management data such
as accounting, human resources, financial management, inventory and logistics are also important for the
effective performance of the health sector (as well as other government departments), particularly in view
of likely budget constraints inthe medium-term. However, there i s no linkbetween clinical and
administrative/resource data collection and management processes within the health care system that
could provide useful informationon service and facilities utilization, the cost of service provision or the
effectiveness of public expenditures on health. This lundof information would help to informpolicy
choices, particularly in light of the current shift to programbudgeting and anticipated health care
financing reforms.

Health Sector Priorities and GovernmentStrategy

The Ministry of Healthhas developed a corporate strategic planas a "major step forwardto the
government's new strategrc approach to economic and social development planning" (Ministry of Health,
Kingdom of Tonga, Corporate Plan 2001/2002-2003/2004). The plan identifies three strategic results
areas: "to achieve improvements inthe health status of the nation by increased responsiveness to the
country's health needs; to achieve improvements inhealth prevention programs at all levels; and to
develop strategies to safeguard the health of the nation with regardto development".

The health sector priorities of the M O Hare clearly outlinedin the report Tonga's Health2000. The
priority areas for attention are divided into two categories (i)
                                                               management priority areas, and (ii) health
priority areas. The management priority areas include:


  (i)   improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of the health system,
 (ii)   improving and strengthening work force management,
(iii)   providingthe Tonga health system with a financial management system at a time when the
government i s trying to contain costs and increase revenues,
 (iv)   providingthe Tonga health system with improved facilities and equipment and ensuring their
maintenance, and
  (v)   strengthening informed decision mahng through the provisionof appropriate information
management.

Healthpriority areas include: (i)    diabetes andheart disease, (ii) and emergency care, (iii)
                                                                   injuries
pharmacy services, (iv) dental decay, (v) mental health, and (vi) cancer.




                                                      - 6 -

 3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices:

 The Project i s the result of extensive dialogue betweenBank Staff and the Ministry of Health,
 Tonga. Consultations were also held with major donor organizations assisting the health sector
 of Tonga (AusAID,ADB, EU, NZAID, and WHO), to ensurethat the activities to be supported
 under the proposed Project were consistent with, and complementary to those supportedby these
 organizations within the government's health sector reformprogram.

 The M O Hhas undertaken several reforms inthe past five years, many of them supported by
 AusAID. A number of these have been specifically directedat improving the functioningof the
 Vaiola Hospital and the health systemingeneral. The first phase of the AusAID-supported Tonga
Health Project concentrated on strategic planning, general management reform, human resource
management including work force planning, financial management and information management.
The second phase has concentrated on extendingthese activities from senior to middle
management, hospital management, public healthmanagement, pharmaceuticals and supplies
inventory management, preparing services plan for the sector and a masterplan overview for
Vaiola hospital, and examining issues of data flow and logistics management in several areas of
the hospital and health system includingreviews of patient registration, diseasenotification and
vital registration. Computer software packagesfor financial and human resource management
have also been introduced in the MOH. Phase11will be extended through mid-2005 and will
continue to support human resource and health management efforts. WHO has also provided
technical assistance in health legislation and for the preparation of clinical guidelines for NCDs
and is planning a STEPSsurvey-a        tool for surveillance of non-communicable disease risk
factors-in   2003. Inaddition, several donors includingAusAID, WHO, SPC are involvedin
primary prevention of non-communicablediseases.

Key priority issues that still remain unaddressedinclude: lack of financial sustainability and
allocational inefficiencies, lack of systematic information collection to support planningor
decision-making in the health sector to support the ongoing management reforms, and the need for
improvingphysical facilities at the Vaiola hospital to support its functionalneeds, and the
efficiency of clinical practice. These issues will be addressedby the Project. As such, the Project
expands on the management reforms commenced by the AusAID-funded Tonga Health Project;
reinforces the broader public sector reformprogram currently supported by the ADB's Economic
and Public Sector ReformProject; responds to priority areas identifiedby the Kingdom of Tonga
vis-a-vis improving the sustainability of financing and the informationbase for decision makmg;
and therefore lays the groundwork for more extensive reforms (in areas such as health financing
and possibly information systems) at a later stage. Inputfrom the MOHhas been critical to
ensuring that the plannedreforms will not exceed the Ministry's implementation or absorptive
capacities.

(i) StrengtheningHealth Care Financing: Certain baseline information that are key to informedhealth-
financing decisions are still lackingin Tonga. This includes, among others, data on total health spending,
demand for and expenditures on health care by households as well as their perception of the health
system, and the extent and role of private providers in the health system. Obtaining this informationand
learning how to use it for policy purposes i s a major objective of the Ministry of Healthand responds to
the current lack of financial sustainability in the health system. Such information will also assist among
other things, to clarify the amounts being spent on preventive vs. curative health services and to ensure
that financing patterns are in line with the government's policy emphasis on preventive care. The
development of the National Health Accounts will help MOHinthis effort.




                                                      - 7 -

 The Ministry of Health inits Corporate Plan refers to identifying user fees while protecting the
 poor, revolving drug funds for pharmacy and reviewingand prioritizing proposals for
 privatization. With a growing private sector the Ministry of Healthwould like to develop
 appropriate policies for developing a mutually beneficial public-private partnership. Currently,
 private providers in Tonga refer patients to public facilities for inpatient services and services
 such as laboratory tests and other services not available in the private sector. While realizingthat
 duplicating capacity for such services will be counterproductive, the Ministryof Healthi s
 interestedin exploringmechanisms for raising fees from patients with private sector referrals for
 the use of public facilities. The health financing options paper planned under the Project will
 include an in-depth assessment of user fees at government facilities, look into the collection
 mechanisms, waivers to protect poor and vulnerable groups, the amount of user fees collected and
 potential leakage in the system and the use of public facilities by private practitioners for the care
 of their patients the pros and cons of a number of key options (as example increasinguser fees,
 social insurance) and make a recommendation about the preferred option which will subsequently
be pilotedandevaluated carefully to ensure that the policy i s acceptable, feasible and does not
reduce access to vulnerable groups.

 (ii)Improving Health Information Management: Considerable diagnostic work has beencarried out in
 the area of health informationmanagement in Tonga, most of it by WHO and the AusAID-supported
Tonga Health Project. Currently, a large amount of potentially valuable health-relatedinformation i s not
beingcaptured on a regular or systematic basis to support planning or decision-making inthe health
sector. This i s attributed to acknowledged deficiencies in the collection and management of
health-relateddata, a limited capacity for data analysis among M O H staff, and hence very limited
utilization of data for performance monitoring. These deficiencies in turn perpetuate negative
perceptions about the value of health information. The country has a manual system for collecting
surveillance data and health informationfrom facilities on an annual basis. These data are only used to
compile the Wnistry's Annual Report and are not used for other policy malung purposes. Moreover,
facilities only provide data on the number of visits, not on case mix or other matters.

There i s interest inreceiving more frequent access to health information especially from Vaiola hospital
and outer islands in order to make the informationuseful for planning. This needi s especially pressing
at Vaiola hospital itself. The M O Hhas recognizedthat effective management of a medium-sized
national referral hospital requires more informationthan they currently collect. Information on inpatient
utilization and patient through-put inthe outpatient and emergency areas i s lacking. This hampers both
financial and human resource management at the hospital and has been identified as a problem. Some
attempts have been made to computerize various parts of the health information system (e.g. patient
database, medical records, diabetes register, vital statistics and pharmacy). These attempts have been
carried out piecemealwith free-standing, non-networked systems that differ inthe operating systems,
platforms and software usedby each. These efforts are at a very preliminary stage, and the limited
degree of computer literacy as well as appropriate maintenance have proved to be major constraints.
AusAID is supporting the computerization of the financing and accounting systems. Inaddition, health
informationcollected i s currently facility based (from health centers and M C Hclinics) and does not
completely capture the needor demandfor health services in the population nor reflect the reasons for
under-utilization of health facilities.

To improve the responsiveness of the health system and the appropriateness of its activities, there i s
interest to conduct periodic riskfactor surveillance and household health surveys. These couldbe used
not only to monitor health status and changes indisease patterns (including inresponse to policy or
programinterventions such as Tonga's recent anti-smolung efforts), but could also strengthen



                                                     - 8 -

community-based case management of individuals with diabetes and hypertension: both of them highly
prevalent conditions in Tonga that are associated with an elevated riskof cardiovascular disease and
death. The first phase of the AusAID-supported Tonga HealthProject reviewed the potential for an
integrated approach to improving the health informationsystem. The second phase providedsupport to
the health statistics and medical records units. The proposed Project will support inthis area bybuilding
on the recommendations of the review supported by the AusAID-supported Tonga HealthProject and
will respondto a directly expressedpriority for a hospital information system at Vaiola. The proposed
Project will therefore, assist the assimilation of all work conducted so far inthis area in Tonga into a
well-defined framework for information management and use.

(iii)Improving the Quality of VaiolaHospital: The AusAID funded Tonga Health Project supported the
development of a Masterplan Overview for Vaiola Hospital, which took into account current and future
demand for acute services at Vaiola Hospital, as well as the buildingsand infrastructure requirement.
The masterplan overview showed that the Vaiola hospital has insufficient space and a poor configuration
for today's health care needs of the Tongan people.

Redevelopment of Vaiola hospital will have several benefits to Tonga's health system. First, it will
respondto public dissatisfactionwith the quality of the facilities, as expressed in a recent client
satisfaction survey carried out by the AusAID-funded Tonga Health Project, e.g. by improving the
quality of patient areas and amenities and by ensuring adequate provisions for visiting family members.
Second, it will improve the technical efficiency of the hospital by improving patient flows, ensuring easy
access to equipment and providinggreater roomfor administrative areas such as medicalrecords and the
health statistics unit. Third, it will improve quality of care by ensuring that the design of the hospital i s
suited the case mix it receives, with fewer infectious diseasebeds and more roomfor medium-stay
patients with cardiovascular diseases or other NCDs. Fourth, it will reduce the recurrent cost of hospital
operations by following internationalbest practices in hospital design for tropical climates, e.g. the
maximum use of natural light and ventilation, and for developing countries, e.g. methods to minimize the
impact of power surges and outages on hospital equipment and patient care. Inaddition, as the social
assessmentfor the Project revealed, adoption of user charges or other forms of cost recovery for hospital
care, while acceptable to the population in principle, would be opposed unless corresponding
improvements were seen in the physical facilities at Vaiola.

Three redevelopment options which ranged from minimal intervention maximizingthe retention of
existing facilities, through to a major re-build with mostly new works were proposed and a preferred
option was approved by Cabinet that best met the needs of all stakeholders and the masterplan
objectives, in terms of deliverability, risk and cost. This option entailed the redevelopment
(rehabilitation and expansion) of the Vaiola Hospital. The proposed Project will therefore support this
option for the redevelopment of the hospital. This will be accompanied by steps to improve hospital
management, strengthen waste management efforts and ensure appropriate attention i s given to the
maintenance of facilities and equipment.


C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(seeAnnex 2for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown) :

The Project will support the following components.

ComponentA. StrengtheningHealth Care Financing: This component will support the review,



                                                     - 9 -

development and implementation of policies which define the funding and overall allocation of resources
to health services. In particular, it will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to: (i)
                                                                                                  plan
resource needs for the health sector; (ii) finance primary health care and preventive services; and (iii)
develop options to finance health services and pilot and evaluate the preferred option before full
implementation. These will be achieved through technical support, training, studies and extensive
consultation with stake holders and beneficiaries.

ComponentB. Improving Health Information Management: This component will comprise three sub
components: (i)  strengthening the information culture, (ii) developing and implementing a Hospital
Information System at Vaiola Hospital, and (iii)   information management for NCDprevention and
control.

B.1: Strengthening the information culture in the MOH: This subcomponent will include: (i)       upgrading
the informationinfrastructure and improving analytical skills in the Health InformationCenter; (ii)
developing improvedprocedures for the collection, management and use of information throughout the
Ministry of Health, including the development and adoption of standardized definitions (health data
dictionary); (iii)ensuring consistent use of information within the Ministry of Health to review
performance and informdecision-malung; (iv) improvingthe collection and monitoring systems for
public health data and (v) improving community-based reporting of health data. This will be achieved
through long and short term technical support, training, and purchase of computer equipment and
software for the HealthInformationCenter.

B.2: Developing and implementing a Hospital Information Systemfor Vaiola. This i s a two-step
process. Inthe first phase, the subcomponent will finance technical assistance, training to buildcapacity
and to achieve improvements in the collection, storage and use of medical records; improvements in
information processeselsewhere in the hospital, e.g. for patient admissions, transfers and discharges; in
the second phase, the subcomponent will finance the purchase and installation of a computerized hospital
informationsystem that i s appropriate to the capacity and requirements of the hospital and i s not unduly
elaborate or costly. The detailed design will be informedby wide consultation with Ministry of Health
staff and based on an options paper that provides a range of choices from which the Ministry of Health
may choose. These in turn will be linked to the redevelopment of the hospital.

B.3: Information managementfor NCDprevention and control. This subcomponent will finance
technical assistance, survey, training in NCD management and equipment for a pilot project of
community-based identificationand treatment for diabetes andhypertension that will provide health
officers and public health nurses with diagnostic tools and clinical guidelines to identify and manage
uncomplicatedcases inthe community and a referral system to ensure these cases are appropriately
referred for further review at Vaiola Hospital.

Component C. Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital: The objective of this component is to
improve the administrative, technical and functional efficiency of Vaiola Hospital by investing in
infrastructure redevelopment and management strengthening. This component will therefore focus on
three areas: redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital, improving hospital management and developing a health
care waste management system.

C.1: Redevelopment of VaiolaHospital. The Project will finance a combination of construction and
rehabilitation on the existing Vaiola Hospitalsite. These will be based on a preferred option for hospital
design that was approved by H i s Majesty's Cabinet in May, 2002. A master plan for hospital
redevelopment is currently under preparation and will be finalized early in Project implementation. The



                                                    -10-

 provision of a ladderedincrease in the maintenance budget for Vaiola Hospitalhas been includedas a
 key covenant of the Project.

 C.2: Improving hospital management. The Project will through technical assistanceandtraining support
 ongoing efforts to strengthen hospital management at Vaiola through: (a) management coaching for
 senior and middle managers; and (b) the development and implementation of key management and
human resource policies at the hospital.

 C.3: Development of a health care wastemanagementsystem. This sub-component will finance
improvements inhealth care waste management for strengthening the policy framework for health care
waste management by providing technical assistance for the preparationof a national health care waste
management policy and a health care waste management plan. It will also finance in-service and extemal
training for all health care staff involvedin waste segregation and waste management and disposal. In
addition, the Project will procure items such as a new waste water treatment facility at the Vaiola
Hospital and waste disposal containers and a vehicle for disposal of hazardous waste.

ComponentD. Project Management and Coordination: This component includes the operation of the
Project ManagementUnit (PMU) which will provide Project support functions, including day-to-day
management, monitoring and coordination of Project activities among implementing units, procurement,
accounting, disbursement and financial management, and liaising with and reporting to the Project
Director. The Project will fund Project management consultants, travel, training and the carrying out of
annual audits of the accounts and financial statements relating to the Project.




 A. StrengtheningHealthCare Financing

 B. ImprovingHealthInformationManagement                            1.25        10.1         1.19       10.9

 C. Improvingthe Quality of Vaiola Hospital                         9.56        77.2         8.36       76.4

 D. Project Management and Coordination                             0.87        7.0          0.70        6.4

                                            Total Project Costs    12.38       100.0        10.94      100.0
                                    Total Financing Required       12.38       100.0        10.94      100.0

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreforms supportedby the project:

The key institutional reform which will have impact on and i s supportedby the Project i s the devolution
of human resources management to line ministries. The Project will buildthe capacity of the Knistry to
review, develop and implement a health financing policy reform. The key policy reforms supported by
the Project are:
   0    Targeting public resources towards preventive and primary care services
   0    Identifying sources for resource mobilization to pay for health services
   0    Development and operationalization of a national health care waste management policy.




                                                    -11  -

 3. Benefits and target population:

 The Project will provide two major benefits (i) improvements in the quality of affordable health services
 for the whole Tonga population including women and vulnerable groups, and (ii)     increased technical and
 human resource capacity of MOH. The redevelopment of the Vaiola hospital will improve the quality of
 care and respondto public concerns about poor amenities. In addition, provision of a new working
environment for hospital staff can also be a catalyst to reformand refine clinical and administrative
practices and processes and thus improve the efficiency and effectiveness of health service delivery as
 well as health outcomes. The improvement of M O Hcapacity for timely collection, collation and analysis
of health information will make the health sector more responsive to health needs. It will also develop a
community-based non-communicable disease prevention program to improve primary and secondary
prevention of diseases like diabetes and hypertension. The population will also benefit from the
development of appropriate healthpolicies.

Target Population:

General Population: The Project targets the entire population of Tonga who will benefit from the policy
reforms, improvements inNCD management and the redevelopment of the Vaiola hospital.

Disadvantaged and Vulnerable Populations: The Project does not specifically target the poor but
systems will be established to ensure that disadvantaged groups (such as those residingin the swampy
squatter settlements of Nuku'alofa and Pangai), women and those most vulnerable to economic shocks
and natural disaster share inthe benefits of the Project and that inparticular, to monitor that the
implementation of policies developed under the Project do not adversely impact them. The financing
component would pilot selected reforms, including clearly defined exemptions, and would ensure that
pro-poor health services (e.g. M C H activities and immunization) are not subject to user fees. The pilot
will also be carefully evaluated before mandating such reforms to ensure that vulnerable groups are not
negatively affected by the reforms. Inaddition, since the bed occupancy rate o f Vaiola Hospital i s
already very low (of the order of 45 percent only), the impact of increased utilization by the better-off i s
unlikely to squeeze out the poor. Nevertheless, admissionprotocols will be designed under the Project to
provide increased certainty that the poor will continue to have access to hospital services. It i s also
important to ensure that there are no negative gender impacts.

MOH Personnel: The Project will buildthe capacity of personnel within the M O Hto review, develop
and implement policies; collect, collate and analyze health information; and plan, manage and monitor
implementation of capital investment projects in the health sector.

NGOs and Private Sector: The Project will encourage increased participation of NGOs, and the private
sector inhealth sector policy development, provisionand financing.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:

The Project will be implemented over a five year period between 2003-2008, with a midterm review in
the middle of year three. It will be implementedby the Ministry of Health.

Project Oversight: General oversight will be providedby a Project Steering Committee which has
already been established and i s composed of representatives from the Ministries of Health, Finance,
Foreign Affairs and Works, the Department of Statistics, Central Planning Department and CrownLaw
Department. This committee will be chaired by the Minister of Health and will meet on a quarterly basis.
The committee will be responsible for the overall coordination of Project implementation to ensure that
Project objectives are achieved.



                                                   - 1 2 -

 Project Management: A Project Director appointed within the Ministry of Healthwill be responsible for
 carrying out the overall management of the Project on a part time basis, heading the Project Management
 Unit,andacting as executive Secretary to the ProjectSteeringCommittee. Three officers havebeen
 appointedas Implementation Managers and will be retaineduntilcompletion of the Project for purposes
 of managing the carrying out of selected components of the Project: an Architect seconded from the
 Ministryof Works for managingthe carryingout of Improvingthe Quality of Vaiola Hospital
 component; the PrincipalHealthAdministrator from the Ministryof Health for managing the carrying
 out of the health care financing component; and a clinician-manager from the Ministry of Healthfor
 managing the carrying out of the health information management component. All of said implementation
 managers will report to the Project Director. Inaddition, for purposes of assisting each implementation
 manager, worlung groups have been identifiedfor each component of the Project and will monitor,
provide technical inputand serve as a consultative forum for the Implementation Managers worlung on
each component. One sub-working group will be established to assist one of said working groups and a
NationalHealth Accounts Steering Committee headedby the Director of Healthand comprising
representatives o f the Borrower's Mmistry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Department of Statistics, and
Central Planning Department, has been established to assist the Sub-working Group in the carrying out of
its respective activities under the Project.

The day-to-day operations of the Project will be carried out by a PMU. This unit will be headed by the
Project Director and will comprise four full-time staff a Project Implementation Coordinator; a
Procurement Officer; a Project Accountant; and a Project Administrative Assistant. The PMU will be
responsible for carrying out the day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of Project
activities among implementing units, procurement, disbursement, accounting and financial management,
and liaising with and reportingto the Project Director.

Procurement: A Procurement Capacity Assessmentwas conductedby a Procurement Accredited Staff
(PAS). The assessmentrevealedthat the M O Hhas no prior Bank-financed procurement experience and
therefore has no prior knowledge of Bank's procurement guidelines. However, limited procurement
experience has beengained through the implementation of the AusAID-financed Tonga HealthProject
and the implementation of the PHRDfor Project preparation. A short-term procurement advisor with
Bank procurement experience will be retained by February 28,2004, to train the Procurement Officer
within the PMUon relevant Bank procedures as well as other staff in the PMU. A procurement capacity
assessment report was prepared during Project preparation and a detailed time bound action plan to
strengthen procurement capacity was discussed and agreed upon with the government. Additionally, a
detailed first year procurement plan has been prepared and discussed and agreed upon during
Negotiations along with the use of Bank's standard biddingdocuments. The agreed first year
procurement plan i s includedinthe PIP. There are no other particular procurement issues.

Financial Management. A financial management system assessmentreport was preparedduringProject
preparation and a detailed time bound action plan to set-up the financial management system and to
strengthen capacity was discussed and agreed upon with the government. Fulldetails on financial
management arrangements are found in Annex 6(B).

Auditing Arrangements. Project accounts will be audited on an annualbasis in accordance with
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA. The audits will include
a separate opinion on the Statement of Expenditure (SOE), the quarterly financial monitoringreports
(FMRs) and the SpecialAccount. The audit report will be submittedto IDA within six months,
following the end of the government's fiscal year, the first such report will be due on December 31,2004.
The audit firm will be retained by February 28,2004. The cost of the audit will be financed through the
credit.



                                                   -13-

 Disbursement Mechanism. Disbursements under the c r e l t will be made on a transactional basis, using
 SOEs. Supporting documents will be maintainedby the PMLI, and quarterly financial management
 reports will be prepared based on formats agreed with the IDA.

 Project Monitoring: The principal responsibility for monitoringand evaluation will rest with the
 Implementation Managers who will manage the carrying out of each Project component. They will be
 assisted in this task by the Implementation Coordinator, who will be responsible for incorporating them
 into Project reports on a semi-annual basis. For indicators requiring technical expertise-namely        those
 that rely on the Health InformationSystem or the household survey-the        implementation managers will
 draw on M O Hstaff involved (e.g. health statistics officer) or consultants (e.g. household survey
 consultant) working in each area. A detailed list of monitoringand evaluation indicators have been
prepared for the Project and i s included in the Project Implementation Plan.

 D. Project Rationale
 1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection:

Maintain status quo. While Tonga has made substantial achievements inhealth status, to sustain these
achievements during a period of fiscal restraint would require health financing reforms that advocate cost
containment and identify alternative sources of financing. Suchreforms will be supported under the
Project. The existing hospital is inpoor condition, has poor configuration and insufficient space to meet
the changed health care needs of the Tongan population. The hospital was designed with the capacity to
meet the demands of outbreaks of infectious diseasesbut Tonga has now entered a stage of development
where non-communicable diseasesare the major public health and acute care challenges. The Vaiola
hospital needs to be redeveloped to meet these service requirements.

Building a new hospital on a greenfield site vs. redevelopment of hospital on existing site.        Duringthe
hospital masterplan overview it was determined by a Mnisterial Advisory Committee set upfor this
purpose that the existing site of the hospital i s of a size, configuration and locationthat i s suited to health
care, and provides ample roomfor expansion and that the existing site infrastructure i s reasonable, and
can be used as the basis for the new Project. The greenfield option didnot gain great support from the
advisory committee becausenew sites with the locational advantages of the existing site were not readdy
identifiable. A greenfield site would require funds to be made available for the whole Project, and
require the whole hospital service to be relocated to avoid havinga split service across two sites. The
flexibility of a stagedredevelopment on the existing site, allowing different stages to be matchedto the
available funds was seen as a strong advantage for this approach. The staged development on the existing
site will also create a greater sense of ownership of the new service and the supporting infrastructure
amongst the staff and executive. There would be additional infrastructure costs on a new site, at least
some of which would be reducedby re-using the existing site.

Strengthening preventive care instead of redeveloping the hospital. Tonga has made significant
advances in non-communicabledisease preventionin recent years. The MOH's Health Promotion Unit
has almost trebled in size since 1998; the government has adopted a wide range of anti-smoking measures
including supporting legislation; and the government has also convened an active National Food and
Nutrition Committee, on which representatives from several Ministries have inter alia developed a
country-specific National Plan of Action for Nutrition. These activities have received continued support
from donors, most notably WHO and the South Pacific Commission, and have built momentum for
primary prevention. Hospital redevelopment will contribute to these activities indirectly, by improving
the physical facilities of the Health Promotion Unit (which i s based at Vaiola) and of clinical services for



                                                      - 1 4 -

 secondary prevention (which are relatively weaker than the primary prevention activities and which will
 be more directly strengthened by the case managementpart of the HIS component of this Project).

 Widening the scope of reform efforts. Broader health sector reformefforts (e.g. providerpayment
 reforms, strengthening the MOH's role as a regulator-purchaser etc.) were contemplatedduringProject
 preparation and discussed with the MOH. These were not considered feasible in view of the limited
 management capacity of the Ministry and the small size of the country, and it was elected to proceedonly
 with financing reforms-for    which the need i s most urgent-and     to use these as a way of building
 capacity in the MOHfor policy analysis, stakeholder participation and policy implementation. The lack
 of previous experience with donor-funded Projects inthe sector also mitigated against adopting too
 ambitious a reformagenda. Inaddition, it was notedthat the ADB's Economic and Public Sector Reform
 Project i s addressing some of the more generic components of a broader reform agenda (e.g. managerial
 and human resource autonomy for line ministries) across the government as a whole.

 2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
 ongoing and planned).




 Public Sector Reform                      Economic and Public Sector
                                           Reform(ongoing) (ADB)
 Vaiola HospitalRedevelopment              Vaiola Hospital Project
 Post cyclone recovery - Vava'u
 Waste management


 P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),HU (HighlyUnsatisfactory)

3. Lessonslearnedandreflected inthe project design:

Critical lessons learned from other Bank-financedhealth and other Projects in the region especially in the
Pacific as well as around the world were taken into considerationduringProject design. Also taken into
consideration were the experiences of other donor Projects inthe country. These include:

(i) shouldbefocussed.ThereisatendencyforhealthProjectsinsmallcountriestoinclude
   Project
multiple and loosely linked objectives. This often complicates the implementation and makes the Project
less successful. The Project design and implementation structure has been kept simple to ensure this.

(ii)Capacity building support is essential in institutional strengthening Projects. An institutional
support programfor the Ministry relatedto financial management, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation has been developed as part of the Project design. The P M U which resides within the
implementing agency will be providedcontinuous support and training on financial management and
procurement from experts familiar with Bank procedures within the country. On-the-job training i s an
essential part of the Project design. Technical experts hiredunder the Project will be required to provide



                                                     - 1 5 -

 training to their counterparts as part of their contract.

Further, this beingthe first health Project in Tonga, allowance has beenmade for limited capacity in
 Project implementation and application of Bank requirements has been realistic with sufficient support
 for meetingBank safeguards, financial managementrequirements and Project supervision. The
 experience from a similar Bank health Project in Samoa showed the benefits of having a P M Ufor the
 Project that i s seen as an integral part of the implementing Ministry. In Samoa, the implementing agency
 sees the Project as an opportunity to buildits own capacity in financial management and procurement.
 Several key Project staff such as the implementation officer, community participation and
communication officer and capital assets manager are now employees of the Department of Health (and
paid through counterpart funds).

(iii) shouldbeinplacetodealwithhighturnoverof Projectstafl. Insmallislandcountrieswith
     Systems
highturnover among staff, systems are neededthat can be easily understoodand introducedas potential
changes in staff continue inthe future. Highturnover also needs to be taken into consideration when
training plans are prepared.

(iv) Quality at entry. Poverty and social impact analysis, risk analysis and monitoring and evaluation
were given priority duringProject preparation to ensure quality at entry.

(v) Stakeholder supportfor reform. Any reforminitiative needs to be socially sustainable. Full
involvement of communities will be ensured through broad participation of all stakeholders during
Project preparation and implementation.

(vi) Donor coordination. To ensure coordination among all donor partners inthe reformprograminthe
redevelopment of the hospital, a clear framework for coordination in procurement planning, Project
implementation and policy development will be developed during Project implementation. Bank
missions so far have been closely conducted with AusAID Project staff. Discussions were also held with
JICA. Annual donor meetings and a possible common Project steering committee for all donor Projects
will be suggestedduring implementation.

(vii) The needfor a review of the budget and recurrent cost implications. The recurrent cost implications
of the Project were carefully considered duringpreparation. Extensive consultation with the M O Hand
MOF was carried out to ensure the proposedchanges will be sustainable.

(viii) The needfor policy reform alongside infrastructure investments. Sustainable improvements in
health sector performance require an equal emphasis on policy r e f o m as well as improvements in
physical infrastructure. The inclusion of health financing and health information system components
addresses this need, and also responds to priorities expressed by the MOH.



4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership:
The government's Strategic Development Plan 7 gives highpriority to the health sector and the sector
receives a large share of the national budget to cover its expenditures. The Ministry of Healthhas been a
leading proponent of the public sector reforms of the government. Several sectoral reforms have already
been undertaken under the first phase of the AusAID supportedTonga HealthProject. A strategic
corporate plan has been developed to define the key result areas and the strategies to achieve the reforms
inthe sector. Support for the reforms from all donors is beingcoordinated under this plan.




                                                      - 1 6 -

 The broad Project concept has been endorsedby the Cabinet and the Project has beenincludedin the
 government's public sector investment program. Counterpart funds for the Project have already been
 earmarked in the next fiscal year budget estimates which are currently under preparation.

 The Ministry of Healthhas already developed the implementation structure for the Project and has
 identified key Ministry staff to lead the implementation process. A Steering Committee has been
 appointed; the Project Director has been appointed and has been an active participant inpreparation
 activities; and some staff of the Project Management Unithave been hiredduringpreparation and are
envisaged to continue in a seamless way upon Project effectiveness.

A Ministerial Advisory Committee, chaired by the Minister, was closely involvedinreview of the
masterplan overview for the Vaiola hospital. The broad outline of the preferred option for
redevelopment of the hospital has been approved by Cabinet.

Several aspects of the Project have already begun prior to Project appraisal. The first National Health
Accounts for Tonga i s underway. The consultants to assist in the preparation of the detailed Vaiola
Hospital Masterplan are beingidentified and the masterplan should be adopted by January 31, 2004.


5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

The IDA supported Project i s linked to the broader public sector reformgoals of the government and
health sector reformgoals of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health has been one of the most
successful Mmistries inthe reformprogram. One aspect of the reformi s the devolution of personnel
management from the Public Service Commission to the line ministries. The Project will buildcapacity
within the Ministryof undertake this new responsibility. Bank support for the Project also provides
access to international technical experts and capacity for securing commitments from other donors to
provide funding as well as technical assistanceto support the reformprogram. In addition, the Bank
successfully encouraged AusAlD to support an extension of Phase11of the Tonga Health Project to
sustain ongoing management and human resources reforms inthe Ministry of Health. The Bank can also
bringrelevant experience from other relevant developing and developed countries as well as provide a
macroeconomic perspective. Experiencefrom a similar Project in Samoa and the goodwill developed
between the Bank and the various donor partners in the Pacific under that Project are other values added.
The Bank's global experience inthe sector provides further benefits, as does its ability to offer technical
as well as financial support. The donor coordination role of the Bank i s also an asset.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)

0 Costbenefit
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
                        NPV=US$14.049375 million; ERR = 47 % (see Annex 4)
0  Cost effectiveness
0  Other (specify)
The economic analysis covers the following areas: (i)   cost benefit analysis of Project interventions (ii)
risk-sensitivity analysis and (iii) assessmentof the fiscal impact of the Project. Since much of the data
                                   an
necessary for such analysis i s laclung, the analysis contained in this section i s based on available
informationfrom annual reports of the Ministry of Healthand provides a very conservative estimate of
the Project's benefits.

Quantifiable benefits of the Project i s measuredby the reducednumber of inpatient admissions due to
complications among persons with a confirmeddiagnosis o f diabetes or hypertension as a result of early
identification and management of these illnesses. The costs of the Vaiola Hospital redevelopment and



                                                    -17-

 the improvement of NCD managementcomponents of the Project areUS$9,357,413. The total
 quantifiable benefits (savings) of the Project is US$42,899,487. The benefit cost ratio for the Project i s
 4.6 and the net present value of Project benefits discounted at 10percent i s US$14,049,375 with an
 internal rate of return of 47 percent.

 2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
 NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)



 FiscalImpact:

 The government's health budget allocation inFY03 was T$10.14 million. Donor contributions
 provided an additional T$2.75 million in assistance to the health sector. The recurrent cost implications
 of the hospital redevelopment and the government's mediumand long term plans for hospital
management and staffing were analyzed duringProject preparation. Currently the government spends 60
percent of its recurrent health budget on Vaiola Hospital and five percent of the health recurrent budget
on the maintenance of the hospital. The recurrent cost study estimates that under the preferred option
for hospital redevelopment, the estimated net annual recurrent cost for the preferred option would be
between 60 and 64 percent of its health recurrentbudget assuming the cost of maintenance and
replacement of plant and equipment ranges between 6 to 8 percent of the cost of capital and keeping
current levels of revenue generation, including an increase inthe budget allowance for maintenance and
replacement of plant and equipment and achieving a 5 percent operationalefficiency dividend.

Capacity to generate additional income i s a key factor in the capacity to sustain the future role, scope and
function of Vaiola Hospital. An initial conservative assessment suggests a potential increase in income
of circa T$0.7 million. The potential income earning opportunities investigatedinthe assessment
includes: introducing outpatient fees, private wing facility and procedure fees, laundry fees, food service
fees and increasingmortuary storage service fees. These five activities are expected to generate an
additional income of around T$0.9 million per year, however, policy decision for enabling legislation
will be required to implement them at the hospital. This would mean the net recurrent cost of Vaiola
hospital would reduce to 59 percent of the recurrent health budget under the same assumption as above.
It was agreed that the maintenance budget would increase to 12percent of the total recurrent health
budget and thus subsequently increase the recurrent healthbudget to 14percent of the total government
recurrent budget by Project completion. This would be included as a covenant under the credit.

While the overall staffing of Vaiola hospital i s known to be broadly similar to that of benchmark
hospitals inAustralia, based on a review of staffing levels for Vaiola hospital carried out by the Tonga
Health Project in 2002, it was recognized that certain areas of hospital staffing-especially those
concerned with hospital maintenance, waste management and informationmanagement-would                needto
be increased and maintained in order to meet the needs of an upgraded hospital. Maintainingthese
hospital staff would be key for successful Project implementation and therefore i s a condition under the
credit. On the whole however, given the predicted small increase inpopulation and subsequent small
estimated increase in the number of patients treated, plus the potential benefits of new health technology
and hospital systems reengineeringlreforms, the net staffing position suggests minimal change inthe total
number of staff will be required. These increments will inpart be offset by the proposed reduction of
beds from 202 to around 170. It i s unlikely that this reduction will leadto a need for major changes in
staffing patterns and skill mix. The predominant deficit identifiedin the AusAID report was a shortage
of nurses inthe medical ward -a shortage that might actually be mitigatedby the proposed reduction of
beds. However, shortages of doctors in the outpatients and emergency departments, o f staff inthe
laboratory, and of nurses in the ICU/CCU will remain to be addressed.



                                                    -18-

 3. Technical:

 All policy reforms under the Project will bebasedon exhaustive analysis of the current situationby
 national staff and international experts. International experience, inparticular, experience of countries
 with similar settings and health problems, will guide the development of policies and the Project will
 include action-based training adapted to local conditions. Where possible, new policy reforms will be
 tested through properly designed and monitoredpilot studies prior to implementation. All medical
 equipment purchased under the Project will be basedon international standards. Technical specifications
 for equipment will be decidedin collaboration with regional and international experts.

 The Project costs are based on May, 2003 prices. The civil works costs are derived from space estimates
and unit costs as calculated in the preliminary masterplan prepared by Australian consultants financed by
AusAID and the World Bank. Physicalcontingencies of 5% have beenapplied to basecosts for all
accounts (civil works, goods, services and training). This lower than normal contingency was used in
view of the fairly accurate space analysis and unit costs per square meter inthe preliminarymasterplan,
which were alsojudged to be higher than the norms inTonga. Estimates for goods, services and training
were also accurately estimated and detailed TOR prepared for all major TA packages.

Taxes were applied to the various Project accounts as follows: civil works 3% (the 5% tax on imported
materials has been exempted for the Project); and locally produced, off-the-shelf goods 5%, and
individual national and international consultants 10%. Nationaland international consultant firms would
beexempt from taxes. Direct and indirect foreign exchange components for the various Project accounts
were estimated as follows: civil works 80%; goods 95%; international consultants 100%; national
consultants 15%; training 20%. To provide for inflationduringProject implementation, the following
allowances were made: adjustment from collection date (March 2003) to estimated Project start of
7.75%. DuringProject implementation the following price contingency has been applied to the base cost
of all accounts. For local costs: FY2004 (5%); FY2005 (5%); FY2006 (3%); FY2007-8 (2.5%); and for
foreign exchange components: FY2004-8 (2.5%).

4. Institutional:

The institutional environment for the Project is considered to be generally sound. The M O His strongly
supported by the M O F and political commitment for health i s strong. Leadership within the M O Hi s
strong, particularly from the Minister himself, and management reforms carried out under the
AusAID-funded Tonga Health Project have successfully built a receptive climate for management and
policy reforms. While human resources in Tonga are constrained by its small population and the large
number of Tongans livingabroad, the M O Happears to have a reasonably strong management team and i s
committed to extending this process further. The M O His not subject to political interference and i s
given considerable autonomy within government to pursue the policies and plans it considers necessary.
Donor coordination within the MOHi s also strong. The government-though           not the MOH
specifically-has   borrowedfrom development banks inthe past, and capacity for managing and
implementing such Projects exists to a reasonable degree. The recent experience of the MOF in
managing the World Bank-funded Cyclone Emergency Management and Recovery Project has proved
helpful in consolidating these capacities. A programof economic and public sector reformfunded by the
ADB is also under way inthe Office of the Prime Minister.

Specifically to the Project, the MOHhas acted rapidly to establish a Project Management Unit and to
appoint key staff duringpreparation, many of whom will carry over seamlessly following effectiveness.
The Project Director has played an important role duringpreparation, and the direct involvement of the


                                                    -19-

 Minister of Healthin these activities has provided a strong indication of political commitment to the
 Project. The MOH's performance with the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection Method for hiringa
 hospital master planner (consulting firm) duringpreparationwas excellent, and provides reassurance
 regarding their willingness and ability to follow procurement guidelines and similar requirements
 imposedby the Bank. Interms of human resource and capacity constraints, the maintenance of key staff
 inthe MOHhasbeenincludedas acovenant of the Project andwill addressthese to some extent. More
 general limitations incapacity will need to be addressedby careful supervision-and      extensive provision
 for in-service training have been made ineach of the Project's components-but      are not substantial
 enough to represent a major risk duringimplementation.

 4.1 Executingagencies:

 The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health will execute the Project.


4.2 Project management:

A ProjectDirectorappointedwithin the Mmistry of Healthwill be responsible for carrying out the
overall management of the Project on a part time basis, heading the Project ManagementUnit, and acting
as executive Secretary to the Project Steering Committee. Three officers have been appointed as
Implementation Managers and will be retained untilcompletion of the Project for purposes of managing
the carryingout of selected components of the Project: an Architect seconded from the Ministry of
Works for managing the carrying out of Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital component; the
PrincipalHealthAdministrator from the Ministry of Health for managing the carrying out of the health
care financing component; and a clinician-manager from the Ministry of Health for managingthe
carrying out of the health informationmanagement component. All of said implementation managers
will report to the Project Director Inaddition, for purposes of assisting each implementation manager,
worlung groups have been identifiedfor each component of the Project and will monitor, provide
technical input and serve as a consultative forum for the ImplementationManagers worlung on each
component. One sub-working group will be established to assist one of said working groups and a
NationalHealthAccounts SteeringCommittee headedby the Director of Healthand comprising
representatives of the Borrower's Mmistry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Department of Statistics and
Central Planning Department, has been established to assist the Sub-working Group in the carrying out of
i t s respective activities under the Project.

The day-to-day operations of the Project will be carried out by a Project Management Unit (PMU). This
unit will be headedby the Project Director and will comprise of four full-time staff: a Project
ImplementationCoordinator; a Procurement Officer; a Project Accountant; and a Project Administrative
Assistant. The PMUwill be responsible for carrying out the day-to-day management, monitoring and
coordination of Project activities among implementing agencies, procurement, disbursement, accounting
and financialmanagement, and liaising with and reporting to the Project Director.

The PMUfor preparationwas established inthe Ministry of Health under the direction of a Project
Director and comprised of a coordinator/accountant and an administrative assistant. The administrative
assistant will be retained for Project implementation while the rest of the staff will be hiredby Project
effectiveness. Since all the PMUstaff will be new and have relatively little knowledge of the Project's
financial management, accounting and procurement procedures on-the-job training will be providedby a
procurement advisor and an accounting firm which will give end-of-the month support. In addition, the
PIP clearly outlines the implementation details for monitoring and evaluation, progress reports and
procurement processes. The financial management manual i s also beingpreparedand will be ready by
Project effectiveness.




                                                   -20-

 4.3 Procurement issues:

 There has been no Country Procurement Assessment Report for Tonga. The MOHhas no prior
 Bank-financed procurement experience and therefore has no prior knowledge of Bank's procurement
 guidelines. However, limited procurement experience has been gained through the implementation of the
 AusAID-financed HealthProject and the implementation of the PHRD for Project preparation. A
 short-termprocurement advisor with Bank procurement experience will be retained by February 28,
 2004, to train the Procurement Officer within the PMUon relevantBank procedures as well as other staff
 inthe PMU. A procurement capacity assessment report has beenpreparedduringProjectpreparationand
 a time bound action plan to strengthen procurement capacity has been discussed and agreed upon with
 the government. Additionally, a detailed first year Project procurement plan has been prepared and
 agreed and included in the PIP, and government agreement has been secured on the use of Bank's
standard biddingdocuments under the Project.

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:

 Country Issues. Neither the IMF,World Bank nor ADB conducted any Country FinancialAccountability
Assessments for the Kingdomof Tonga. There is, however, a needto strengthen the financial
management system of the various government entities and its implementing agencies inthe country. At
present, there i s on-going AusAID-financed computerization programof the accounting systems of the
M O F and MOH, and the Government received an ADB loan of US$lO million and TA Credit of $7
million for its Economic and Public Sector ReformProgram; its objective i s to ensure overall
macroeconomic stability and to enhance private sector-led economic growth. Among several advisory
services and support for capacity building,the TA addresses relevant financial management issues to the
World Bank's Project, i.e., good governance practices and strengthening the planning, monitoring and
reporting capability of the ministries. The government's existing accounting systemconcentrates mainly
on bookkeeping and transactional control over expenditures and the concept of utilizing financial
management informationfor decision mahngi s gradually emerging. For this Project, a separate
financial reporting system will be designed for the Project implementation purposes, since the
MOH-financedcomputerization of the accounting system i s not yet fully operational. The country issues
on quality and timeliness of audit reports are not relevant since the audit will be conducted by a private
accountingfirm; and the Project will generate its Financial Statements.

Financial Risks. The possibilityof collusion from the PMUassuming all the authority and responsibility
for all areas o f Project management and implementation i s mitigated by requiring (i) two signatories from
MOF for all payment orders; and (ii)   no payments will be made unless the Project Director and
Procurement Officer certify that the contractors/consultants' work have been completed, the goods have
been delivered and the services have been rendered. Inaddition, the P M U will also be involvedin
reviewingthe technical specifications of the tender documents, bidopening and evaluation. Moreover,
the complete segregation of duties among PMUstaff i s existing, i.e., the functions of implementing and
overseeing will not be performed by the same P M U staff. Inaddition, the Project financial statements
will have to be audited by an external auditor, acceptable to IDA. The issue of availability of funds on a
timely basis to the PMUapplies to the Project to the extent of this beinga sector Project which i s
generally more vulnerable to this problem. This riski s worsened by possible exposure to delays in
payments to suppliers due to the signatures required on both IDA funds and government contributions.
To avoid this risk, the Kingdom of Tonga will open a Special Account for the counterpart fund deposit
at the beginning of the year, based on the annual budget submittedby the P M Uthrough the MOH. The
experience on existing Projects where there i s no Special Account opened for local counterpart fund
indicates consistent delayed payment. This possible riskshould be contained and avoided further by
adequateIDA supervision as well as regular reporting to the Project SteeringCommittee.




                                                    -21 -

Smooth implementation of the Project can suffer a set-back from lack of qualified accounting staff. To
ensure that the Project Accountant i s provided with sufficient support duringthe first three years of the
Project, the government will engage the services of a suitable accountingfirmto provide end-of-the
month support. This includes, on-the-job training for the Project Accountant, assistance in the
preparation of special account reconciliation statements, withdrawal applications, financial statements
and reports and supporting schedules.


5. Environmental:                         EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmentalassessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The Project mainly supports rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and extension of existing buildings.
Demolition of some existing buildings, movement of workers, equipment and materials within the
hospital site and proper disposal of debris are the environmental issues that may arise. An asbestos
survey has been conducted ,and some small quantities of non-friable asbestos materials found. Best
practices for demolition of these materials (from US EPA guidance) have been drafted for inclusion in
biddocuments. Biddingdocuments will also include hours-of-work, dust andnoise limits. The
supervising consultants will be responsible for ensuring that these requirements are met.

A HealthCare Waste Management Feasibility Study has beenconducted. Environmentally acceptable
waste management options have been delineated and optimized. Terms of Reference for international
technical assistancein developing a HealthCare Waste Management Policy and Health Care Waste
Management Plan, as well as training has been drafted. The needfor a new package waste water
treatment systemhas been identified and the system treatment requirements (World Bank Guidelines),
operator training, maintenance package, and costs have been delineated.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
There were two identified environmental concerns: 1)asbestos and construction waste disposal; and 2)
health care waste management.

An asbestossurvey was performed and non-friable asbestos materials (Transite roofing andresilient floor
tiles) were identified. The Asbestos Survey Report details environmentally acceptable demolition and
disposal practices for the materials found. These specifications will be includedinthe demolition
contractor bidpackage.

A Health Care Waste ManagementFeasibility Study has beenperformed to identify current practices and
to identify and assess various environmentally sustainable health care waste management options. Under
the Project international technical assistance will be provided to assist indeveloping a Health Care Waste
Management Policy, includinglegislative assistance. International technical assistance will also be
provided to assist in developing a Health Care Waste Management Plan that will be specific for each
health care facility and eachjob description within the facilities. The technical assistance will include
training for all personnel involvedin health care waste management.

Budgeteditems under the Project include a new vehicle that will be dedicatedonly for disposal of health
care waste, as well as an allocation for fuel and maintenance. Also included are appropriate (color coded
and biohazard-marked) disposal containers and consumable items such as disinfectant and color coded
plastic bags with internationally recognized biohazardmarlungs.

A new waste water treatment plant will be provided for the Viaola Hospitalunder the Project. The
package will include initial and periodic operator training, laboratory equipment necessary to monitor the


                                                    - 22 -

 performance of the waste water treatment plant, and spare parts.

 5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft: 3/12/2003


 5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
 report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
 mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

 Ministryof Healthpersonnel including the Minister, HospitalDirectors, staff doctors andnurses of
 Prince Nguand Vaiola Hospital, and Public Health Inspectors of Nuku'alofa and Va'vau were consulted
duringpersonal interviews, site visits andmeetings. Consultations were held with personnelfromthe
newly formedEnvironment Department of the MinistryLands, Survey and NaturalResources, as well as
the Ministryof Agriculture and Forestry, Quarantine and Quality Management Division. A full listing of
personnelconsulted i s included in the Health Care Waste Management Feasibility Study.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

The progress in implementing an environmentally sustainable health care waste management system, and
the performance of the waste water treatment system will be monitored during implementation. In
addition, noise, dust control and construction waste disposal will also be monitored during supervision.
Technical assistance in developing and implementing a national health care waste management policy
and a health care waste management plan for Vaiola Hospital will be providedby international
consultants.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

Key social issues related to the Project include access to health services, especially by disadvantaged and
vulnerable groups; the quality of health services, especially as perceived by the public; and the effect of
the Project on the morale of staff and patients at Vaiola Hospital. Mitigation strategies are summarized
as follows:

Access. Public health care in Tonga i s for the most part providedfree of charge. While most people are
broadly comfortable with the idea of cost recovery for health services and appreciate the budget
constraints and weak sustainability of the current system, Tonga's culture emphasizes social solidarity
and the protection of poor and vulnerable groups. Financingreforms will therefore needto include
appropriate exclusion criteria to ensure these groups are protected and have access to care. The Project
will also improvecommunity-based detection and treatment of key non-communicable diseases,
improving the access of rural residents to these services.

Quality. A client satisfaction survey conducted at Vaiola Hospital in 2002 emphasized concerns over the
physical infrastructure of the hospital, including issues such as poor hygiene and unclean wards, the lack
of privacy in the patient care environment, design issues to do with mobility around the hospital, and the
need to provide a cooler patient care and work environment. The Project will address these in the design
of the redeveloped hospital. It will also improve the quality and efficiency of diabetes management by
strengthening hospital-community links.

Morale. The construction phase of hospital renovation may affect morale among patients and staff.
Construction and demolition activities will be planned to minimize any such negative impacts.


                                                    - 23 -

The Project's key social development outcomes include: (1) increased ability of Ministry of Healthto
conduct stakeholder consultations, both duringhospital redevelopment and in the course of policy
decision-making; (2) Strengthening community involvement in case identification and management for
key non-communicable diseases; (3) Identifyingpoor and marginalized groups through surveys and
stakeholder consultations.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
Key stakeholders were consulted duringProject preparation and roles for key stakeholders have been
developed for Project implementation. The following table summarizes the framework for stakeholder
participation in the Project.

Stakeholder                  Key IssuesI Interests                                Participation in Project
Disadvantagedand                 Concerned about access to and cost of health        Surveys of impactof healthfinance reform on
Vulnerable Groups            services.                                            utilizationof services by disadvantagedand
                                 Need greater awareness of health risksand        vulnerable groups
                             disease prevention.                                     Surveys on client satisfactionwith quality of
                                                                                  services.
                                                                                     Monitors will evaluate Project effectsthrough
                                                                                  disaggregated indicators.
MOH staff                         Renovation of Ministry                             Will plan and implementProject
                                                                                     Non Projectstaff will provide inputon various
                                                                                  aspects of the Project.
Vaiola hospital staff          Renovationof hospital                                  Will be consultedthroughoutthe Projectand in
                                                                                  iarticularwith respectto hospital renovations.
HealthCenter staff             Want increased role in delivering healthservices     Will be consultedthroughout Project
                                                                                  nplementation
                                                                                    Involvedin delivery of health informationsystem
                                                                                  :omoonent
MCH Clinic staff               Providepublic healthservices                         Will be consultedduring Project implementation

                                                                                    Involvedin delivery of health informationsystem
                                                                                  :omponent
Private Practitioners          Privateprovidersof health care.                      Will be consultedduring Project implementation
                               Usuallvaovernment Dhvsicians.
Tonga MedicalAssociation       Represents Tongan physicians                         Will be consultedduring Project implementation
Vaiola Hospital Boardof        Representativesof MOH and churches                   Will be consultedduring Project implementation
Visitors                                                                            Monitoringthe renovationactivities and acting a:
                                                                                  Iforumfor communicatinawith staff andthe Dublic
Tonga Family Planning      B   Works with women at the communitylevel includin!     Will be consultedduring Project implementation
Association               ,aditional birthattendants                                PotentialProject monitor
                                                                                    Potentialrole in training and capacity building.
Tonga Trust and other NGOs m Providecommunitydevelopment and deliver health         Will be consultedduring Project implementation
                          ervices                                                   PotentialProject monitor
                                                                                    Potentialrole in training and capacity building.
Church organizations        D  Strong role and trust of local community             Will be consultedduring Project implementation
                             m Providerof healthservices                            PotentialProiect monitor
Town Officers                m Senior electedofficial invillage                     Will be consultedduring Project implementation
Village Health Committees    mVillage level institutioncharged involved in public   Will be consultedduring Project implementation
                          ealth issues. Health Center staff are involved in         PotentialProjectmonitor
                          lommittees.
Women's Development         b Village level group focused on women's issues         Will be consultedduring Project implementation



                                                                  - 24 -

 Groups                      includinghealth and nutrition.                        PotentialProjectmonitor
 Ministryof Agriculture        Conduct village levelprograms in environmental      Will be consultedduring Project implementation
 Women's ExtensionWorkers health and nutrition.                                    PotentialProjectmonitor
 TraditionalHealers/                       Important component of health care      Will be consultedduring Project
 TraditionalBirth Attendants  system.                                             implementation
                                           Have trust of many in rural areas.
                                 Desiregreater collaboration and cooperation with
                              MCH clinics, healthcenters, and MOH..
 DonorAgencies &                         Deliver social development and health    .Will be consultedduring Project
 InternationalDevelopment     sewices                                             implementation
 Organizations                                                                    *Potential Projectmonitor


 6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
 organizations?

A number of NGOs havebeenconsulted as part of the Project preparation and will continue to play apart
inthe development of the Project. Stakeholder consultations have beenmade explicit ineach Project
component and will be conductedthroughout Project implementation.

 6.4 What institutionalarrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The Project will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health to undertake stakeholder consultations.
Relevantmonitoring and evaluation indicators are included in each Project component and will be used
to ensure that these consultations actually occur. A Project monitoring working group will be formed,
comprising representatives from the MOH, key NGOs (e.g. Tonga Family Health Association, Tonga
RedCross) and community groups (e.g. Church groups). This workmg group will monitor the
stakeholder consultation aspect of each Project component.

6.5 How will the project monitorperformance in terms of social development outcomes?

The Project monitoring team composed of representatives of key stakeholder groups will evaluate the
results of ongoing Project monitoringreports.

Working with village level organizations such a Village Health Committees and Women's Development
Groups, as well as NGOs, disadvantaged people can be identified and targeted for ongoing monitoring.
With the development of the health informationsystem, data will be collected on key health indicators
such as infant mortality rate, under-five mortalityrate, maternal mortality ratio, locally relevant disease
specific indicators including NCDs, outpatient visits to Vaiola and client satisfaction studies, and it will
be disaggregated based on characteristics of disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, includinggender,
income, location, age, and other vulnerability indicators. The household survey which i s currently being
conducted will form a baseline and will provide guidance for more qualitative assessments. Another
household survey is plannedtowards the end of the Project to assess the social development impact of the
Project.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




I                                                                                      I                                            I


                                                                 -25-

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                             0Yes       NO
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                0Yes       NO
    Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP4.12)                                       0Yes       NO
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                          0Yes       NO



    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)*                        0Yes       NO



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

To ensure compliance with safeguard policies, technical assistance was provided to identify key social
issues through focus groups and surveys. Stakeholder consultations were conductedas part of Project
preparation. The social assessment defines a framework for on-going stakeholder consultations to ensure
mitigation of potential negative effects of the Project.

As the hospital redevelopment will be on existing site, no new landwill be acquired. As a consequence,
no resettlement i s planned inthe Project or expected as a consequence of the Project.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the Project was measured in terms of improvements inpreventive care, fiscal
impact, institutionalcapacity and community support for reformafter Project completion.

Improvement in preventive care: Extending the health information system to include community-level
surveillance for key non-communicablediseases will be linked to improvements incase management and
secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Fiscal impact: Improvements inthe operationalefficiency of the Vaiola hospital and the accompanying
health financing reforms i s expected to improve sustainability of fundingfor the sector and the
effectiveness of health service delivery. The masterplan preparation will ascertain the implications both
interms of humanresources andrecurrent costs to ensure that the hospital can berunefficiently with
adequate resources to maintain the facility. Preliminary estimates of these changes were obtained during
Project preparation and have been included among the Project's key conditions.

Znstitutional capacity: The Project will provide action-based trainingto health ministry staff to build
capacity inpolicy development, health informationcollection and analysis and asset management and
planning.

Community supportfor reforms: The stakeholder consultation process developed during the Project will
ensure continuedcommunity support for the reformprocess.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):



                                                                Poor and vulnerable groups are being identified
                                                                through preparatory activities including the
                                                                social assessmentand the baselinehousehold
                                                                survey. Specific mitigation strategies will be



                                                    - 26 -

                                                  designed to protect these groups from adverse
                                                  effects undereach Project component: and the
                                                  social and poverty impact of each component
                                                  will be monitored during Project
                                                  implementation; and participatory strategies
                                                  will be used during Project design and inthe
                                                  monitoring of Project implementation.

Cey staff not in place                     M      Sustaining personnelinkey positions i s a key
                                                  condition of the Project. New positions will be
                                                  minimized: instead, vacancies on the existing
                                                  establishment register will be filled to meet key
                                                  personnelneeds, and sanctioning of new posts
                                                  will be kept to a minimum.

lapid turnover of personnel                S      Sustaining personnelinkey positions i s a key
                                                  condition of the Project. Detailedterms of
                                                  reference have been developed for all Project
                                                  implementation positions to ensure smooth
                                                  continuation with new staff. Secondments
                                                  have been usedto staff key &rectorial and
                                                  coordmating positions, both to reduce the
                                                  likelihood of turnover and to increase the
                                                  extent of institutionalknowledge transfer.
?omComponentsto Outputs
3xchange rate leads to significant         S      Variations in exchange rates between T$, Aus$
luctuation in the purchasingpower of              andUS$ have been includedin the sensitivity
redit amount                                      analysis of Project costs and appropriate
                                                  contingencies have been established
Iospital redevelopment is not matched      H      A separatehospital management component
ly correspondingimprovements in                   has been introduced with a view to improving
ospital management                                the operating efficiency of the Vaiola hospital.
                                                  The HIS and health financing components also
                                                  make provisions for improving data inputs to
                                                  management decisions. The AusAID-funded
                                                  Tonga Health Project i s expected to continue
                                                  into a thirdphase from 2003 to 2005 and will
                                                  focus predominantly on hospital management.

daintenancebudget not increased to         M      Increasing the maintenance budget i s a key
ieet the needs of an upgraded Vaiola              condition of the Project and i s accepted as a
ospital                                           necessity by MOF and MOH.

icreases in maintenance budget not         M      Keepinga core of maintenance staff i s required
latched by improvements inthe                     as a condition of the Project. The Project also
erformance of maintenance staff                   includes subcomponents for the development
                                                  of a maintenance plan and for continuous
                                                  training of maintenance staff.




                                         - 27 -

Failure to enforce any laws or regulation           M             Ensure sufficient staff to carry out functions
passedto improve waste management at                               usingconditionalities as required. Ensure staff
nealth facilities                                                  are properly trained; Strengthen management to
                                                                   ensure appropriate oversight and performance
                                                                  monitoring.

Limitedcapacity of the M O Hto manage               M              The M O Hwill contract with a firmto manage
mdimplement the healthfinancing                                   this component-including      selection and
:omponent                                                         monitoringof consultants, responsibility for
                                                                  meeting Project deadlines, etc.-    inclose
                                                                  collaboration with counterpart staff in the
                                                                  MOH. Itwill also have to progressively fill
                                                                  currently-vacant posts inits Health Planning
                                                                  Unit,several of which have to be filled as key
                                                                  conditions of the Project.

?ublic antagonismtoward proposed                    H             Consultations to date have indicated a
'inancing reforms                                                 generally positive disposition toward user
                                                                  charges for health services. The MOHhas
                                                                  beenbuildingpublic awareness of this issue for
                                                                  the past three years, and the redevelopment of
                                                                  Vaiola hospitalprovides a good opportunity to
                                                                  justify user charges on the basis of improved
                                                                  facilities. To reduce the riskof any remaining
                                                                  antagonism, the Project will ensure extensive
                                                                  consultations duringthe policy development
                                                                  process, and will enact and publicizemeans to
                                                                  exempt the poor and vulnerable from the
                                                                  adverse effects of any financing reforms.

The complexity of informationreforms                H             The Project will ensure that information-related
nay overwhelm the capacity of MOH                                 reforms are kept simple, and that reforms and
,taff                                                             new technologes are introduced in a phased,
                                                                  progressive way. Inaddition, a full-time
                                                                  Technical Advisor will be retained for the first
                                                                  three years of the Project to ensure a close
                                                                  match between capacity development and the
                                                                  introduction of new systems and technologies.

lata collection will not be matched by              M             The presence of a long-term consultant and the
lata utilizationfor management and                                training of key staff should ensure that data are
iolicy purposes                                                   usedeffectively for management and policy
                                                                  purposes.

nadequatemaintenanceltechnical                      H             Recruitment of IT staff i s a conditionality of
upport for HIS                                                    the Project.

herall Risk Rating                                               I
                                                   M
isk Rating- H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)



                                                  -28 -

 3. Possible ControversialAspects:
 Financing reforms. A social assessmentcarried out duringProject preparationindicated broad support
 for the principle of cost recovery for health care services. It also highlightedthe importance of ensuring
 a corresponding improvement in the facilities and service quality at M O Hfacilities, Vaiola hospital in
 particular, without which financing reforms would be unpopular. Public opposition might also arise if
 financing reforms are implemented without due protection for poor and vulnerable groups (such as the
 unemployed, single mothers and those without land), since this runs counter to Tongan values that
 emphasize social protection for these groups.

 G. Main Loan Conditions
 1. EffectivenessCondition

 1.      The services of an implementationcoordinator, a procurement officer, and a Project accountant,
all with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, have been
retained for purposes of assisting the Project Management Unitin the carrying out of procurement,
accounting and financial management of Project activities.

2.       The Borrower has established a financial management system within the Ministryof Health for
the Project, satisfactory to the Association.

3.       The Borrower has adopted a financial management manual for the Project, acceptable to the
Association

4.       The legal opinion shall include that the Asbestos Survey Report has been duly adopted by the
Borrower and i s legally bindingupon the Borrower.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used inthe Legal Agreements.]

Condition of Negotiations

1.       The Borrower has furnished to the Association a draft financial management manual for the
Project.

Proiect Management:

1.       The Borrower shall maintain a Project Steering Committee headed by the Minister of Health and
comprising representatives of the Borrower's Ministryof Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Works, Crown Law Department, Central Planning Department, and
Department of Statistics, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and assigned with funds
and resources as shall be necessary to undertake the overall coordination of Project implementation and
achieve the Project objectives; and (b) the NationalHealth Accounts SteeringCommittee headed by the
Director of Health and comprising representatives of the Borrower's Ministryof Health, Ministry of
Finance, Department of Statistics, and Central Planning Department, with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association and assigned with funds and resources as shall be necessary to assist the Sub-worhng
Group in the carrying out of its respective activities under the Project.

2.       The Borrower shall retain, untilcompletion of the Project, the following staff, all with
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association:

    (a)  a Project Director within the Ministry of Healthfor purposes of carrying out the overall
         management of the Project, heading the Project ManagementUnit and acting as the Executive


                                                    - 29 -

          Secretary to the Project Steering Committee: and

     (b) three (3) implementation managerswithin the Ministry of Health, one of said implementation
          managers for purposes of managing the carrying out of Part A of the Project, one of said
          implementation managers for purposes of managing the carrying out of Part B of the Project,
          and one of said implementation managersfor purposes of managingthe carrying out of Part C of
          the Project, and all of said implementation managers shall report to the Project Director.

3.       The Borrower shall maintain:

(a) for purposes of assisting the respective implementation manager within the Ministry of Healthin
      managing the carrying out of Components A, B, and C of the Project, three (3) Worlung Groups,
      one (1) for the carrying out of Part A of the Project, one (1) for the carrying out of Part B of the
     Project, and one (1) for the carrying out of Part C of the Project, respectively; and

(b) for purposes of assisting inthe carrying out of Part A of the Project, one (1) Sub-worlung Group.

4.       The Borrower shall (a) maintain a Project Management Unitwithin the Ministry of Health,
headedby the Project Director with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, assigned with qualified staff in adequate numbers, including an administrative assistant,
andprovided with such powers, responsibilities, organization and funding as shall be required to enable
itto carry out the day-to-day management, monitoringandcoordination of Project activities including
procurement, disbursement, accountingand financial management, and (b) retain an implementation
coordinator, a procurement officer and a Project accountant, within the Project Management Unit,until
completion of the Project, all with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, for purposes of assisting the Project Management Unitin the carrying out of procurement,
accounting and financial management of Project activities.

5.       The Borrower shall:


(a)      establish, and thereafter maintain untilcompletion of the Project, a financial management system
for the Project within the Ministryof Health, acceptable to the Association:


(b)     prepare, adopt, and thereafter implement, a financial management manual for the Project,
acceptable to the Association; and


(c)     not amend, revise, cancel, waive or abrogate any provisions of the financial management manual
without the prior agreement of the Association.

6.      The Borrower shall, by February 28, 2004, retain the services o f (a) an independent auditor with
qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
carrying out the audits under the Project, untilcompletion of the Project: and (b) a procurement advisor
with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
assisting the Project ManagementUnit inpreparingprocurement documents, conducting bidding
processes, and training staff of said Project Management UnitinProject management and procurement.

Project Implementation

7.      For purposes of the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall by April 30 of each calendar
year, commencingApril 30,2004, untilcompletion of the Project, prepare and furnishto the Association,



                                                    - 30 -

for its review and approval an annual work plan for the Project for the Project activities to be carried out
duringthe following Fiscal Year.

8.        For purposes of the carrying out of Component C of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review and approval: (a) by January 31, 2004, the Vaiola Hospital
Masterplan and, thereafter, finalize and adopt such masterplan as it may be revised from time to time
with the prior agreement of the Association; and (b) by March 31of each calendar year, commencing
March 31, 2004, untilcompletion of the Project, a rolling two-year plan for the redevelopment activities
for the Vaiola Hospital, such plan to be based on the Vaiola HospitalMasterplan and, thereafter, finalize
and adopt such plan.

9.       The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital in accordance with
the provisions of the Asbestos Survey Report, and (b) not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of the
Asbestos Survey Report without the prior agreement of the Association.

10.      The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that budgetary funds
allocated for the health sector are increased from twelve percent (12%) of the total recurrent budget in
Fiscal Year 2004 to: (a) inFiscalYear 2005, twelve and a half percent (12.5%) of said total recurrent
budget; (b) inFiscal Year 2006, thirteen percent (13%) of said total recurrent budget; (c) inFiscalYear
2007, thirteen and a half percent (13.5%) of said total recurrent budget; and (d) inFiscalYear 2008,
fourteen percent (14%) of said total recurrent budget.

11.      The Borrower, through the Ministry of Health, shall take all such action as shall be necessary to
ensure that budgetary funds allocated for maintenance of Vaiola Hospital shall be increased from five
percent (5%) of saidbudgetary funds inFiscalYear 2004 to: (i)      inFiscalYear 2005, sevenpercent (7%)
of said budgetary funds; (ii)  inFiscalYear 2006, eight percent (8%) of saidbudgetary funds; (iii)   in
FiscalYear 2007, ten percent (10%) of said budgetary funds; and (iv) inFiscal Year 2008, twelve percent
(12%) of said budgetary funds.

12.      The Borrower shall, untilcompletion of the Project, maintain within its Ministry of Healththe
following staff, all with qualifications and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association:
    (a) a health care waste management officer;
    (b) an informationtechnology manager;
    (c) a health planning officer;
    (d) a policyhationalhealth accounts analyst;
    (e) a health statistics officer; and
    (f) a senior hospital engineer.

Monitoring and Reports

13.      The Borrower shall:
         (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
         ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed with the Association, the carrying out of
         the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
         (b)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the
         Association, on or about March 31,2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoringand
         evaluation activities performed, on the progress achieved in the carryingout of the Project during
         the periodpreceding the date of said report and setting out the measuresrecommendedto ensure
         the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof duringthe
         periodfollowing such date; and
         (c)      review with the Association, by July 31, 2006, or such later date as the Association shall



                                                     -31 -

         request the report and thereafter, take all measuresrequired to ensure the efficient completion of
         the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
        recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter.

14.     The Borrower shall, by May 31and November 30 of each calendar year, commencing May 31,
2004, untilcompletion of the Project, prepare and furnishto the Association, for its review and
comments progress reports in form and substancesatisfactory to the Association.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
    1.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the
        start of project implementation.
    1.b) Not applicable.

02.The     procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
      quality.
0  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

Draft TORSfor core PMUstaff and Project consultants were prepared and sample procurement
documents of shopping procedures were provided to PMUfor the first year procurement activities. The
Project first year procurement plan, which was agreed upon during negotiations, and the first General
Procurement Notice was published in the UNDB on May 31,2003.

The civil works component of the Project will not commence until Year 2 of the Project. The masterplan
for the Vaiola Hospitalincluding the detailed designbriefs i s beingprepared. This masterplan will be
approved by the Cabinet and IDA and the design documents will be preparedin Year 1. The timing of
these activities will ensure that other policy reforms and systems such as the functional requirements for
the hospitalinformationsystems and the waste water treatment plant will be in place before the
redevelopment of the hospital begins.

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies

   1.This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
0  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                                                  xianzhu
Team Leader                              Sector Director                          CountryManagerlDirector




                                                     - 32 -

                                     Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
                             TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                                      Key Performance          I  Data Collection Strategy
                                          Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
                                Sector indicators:              Sector/ countryreports:       'romGoal to Bank Mission)
To buildhumancapital,           Share of national budget        Nationalbudget, HIS           itableeconomic growth
policies, institutions and      allocated to health
infrastructure neededto bring                                                                 Betterhealth leadsto greater
about equitable and                                                                           conomic activity andpoverty
sustainablegrowth.                                                                            lleviation.


To reducedisparities within     Percentageof national health
countries andto promote         budget allocated to priority
equitable access to the benefitshealth problems of poor and
of development.                 vulnerable groups



Project Development             Outcome/ impact                  Project reports:             from Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                      Indicators:
Improvedcapacity of the         1. Increasedpercentageof        NationalHealth Accounts        Jo major environmental
Ministry of Health (i)  to      Ministry ifHealth revenues       (baseline to be derived from lisasters.
develop and health financing    derived fromnon-govemment f i s t NHA reported expected
reform, (ii)strengthenthe       sources                         to be completed by June 2004)
HealthInformation System
and (iii)improve the
administrative, functional and  2. Increasedallocation of       National Budget
technical quality of Vaiola     Ministryof Healthbudgetto       National HealthAccounts
Hospital                        primary andpreventive care

                                3. Increased bed-occupancy      Hospital Information Systems
                                rateby ward, reduceaverage
                                length of stay inselected
                                wards and increasedbed
                                turnover rate inVaiola
                                hospital


                                4. Increasedproportionof         Household surveys
                                patientsdiagnosedwith            (baseline to be derived from
                                diabetes or hypertensionwho      household survey expected to
                                encounterthe health systemto     be completed by June 2003).
                                receive secondaryprevention
                                3nat leasttwo occasionsper
                                Year
                                                                Provider satisfaction surveys
                                5. Increasedproportionof
                                ?roviders satisfied with the
                                reformedhealth care system       Consumer satisfaction surveys
                                5. Increasedproportionof
                                population satisfied with the
                                -eformedhealth care system
                                3articularly the poor and




                                                            - 33 -

                               vulnerable groups




Output from each               Output Indicators:               'roject reports:        From Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Improvedcapacity to review,    Biennial reports on sources      %ogressreports          :abinet endorses policies and
develop and implement health anduse of funds in the sector.     VationalHealthAccounts  eforms
financing policies             FY04,FY06 andFY08.

                               Resourceallocation targetsfor VationalHealth Accounts
                               governmentfinancing of
                               yimary, preventive and
                               Ainical servicesset by FY05.

                               Actual government                VationalHealthAccounts
                               :xpenditures on primary,         VationalBudget
                               ?reventiveand clinical
                               services inFY0.5-FY08.

                               4 healthfinancing options        Jrogressreports
                               iaper includingmechanisms
                               :or exempting the poor
                               :ndorsed by Cabinet by FY06
                               indpreferred optionpiloted
                               indevaluatedbyFY08.



Improvedcapacity to obtain     3quipmentprocured and staff      'rogress reports        'olicy reforms are endorsed
and utilize health information rained at the Tonga Health                               )yCabinet.
for policy making, hospital    :nformationCenter by FY05.
managementand NCD                                                                       ltaff turnover does not impede
control.                       Selectionand measurementof                               :apacitydevelopment in
                               cey MOHperformance               'rogress reports        nformationmanagementat
                               ndicators byFY05.                                        vlinistry of Health.

                               vlinistry-wide policies and
                               xocedures on health              'rogress reports
                               nformation - including health
                               :enter and public health data,
                               ~irthsand deaths and
                               nfectious diseasenotification
                                reviewed andrevised by
                               TYO6.

                               qumber of staff trained in
                               nedical records management       'rogress reports
                               )yFY06.

                               ?ongadata dictionary



                                                          - 34 -

                             preparedby FY05.               Progress reports

                             Hospital information
                             processesreviewed and          Progress reports
                             options paper on computerizec
                             Hospital InformationSystem
                             preparedby FY06.

                             Hospital Information System
                             procured, installed and        Progressreports
                             sperational byFY08.

                             Planfor community-based
                             VCD identificationand          Progressreports
                             reatment, and for updating
                             liabetes register, developed
                             mdapprovedby Ministry of
                             9ealth by FY04.

                             [ncreasedproportionof
                             liabetes and hypertension      Comparisonof pre- and post-
                             iatients receiving regular     intervention surveys.
                             'ollow-up inthe community
                             mdat Vaiola Hospital.




mproved administrative,      Jaiola hospital masterplan     Vaiola HospitalMasterplan    Iospital masterplanis
unctional and technical      ieveloped by mid-FY03.         Report.                      ndorsedby Cabinet and
pality of Vaiola hospital in                                                             tandard normsfor equipment
esponseto requirements       3ospital meeting equipment     Asset managementsurvey       s adopted by Government
dentified inthe masterplan   iorms by FY08.

                             lospital waste management      Progress reports
                             )landevelopedby FY05 and
                             mplementedby FY07.

                             lospital maintenanceplan       ?rogressreports
                             ncluding maintenance
                             ndicators developed and
                             mplementedby FY06.
                                                            'rogress reports
                             daintenanceindicators
                             nonitored according to Plan
                             romFY06to FY08.
                                                            'rogress reports
                             Iumanresource policy
                             wised by FY05 and
                             mplementedby FY07.
                                                            ?rogressreports
                             lumber of senior and middle
                             unagers at the hospital
                             -ainedinhospital


                                                       - 35 -

                            nanagementper year.




'roject Components/         nputs: (budget for each      'roject reports:    (from Componentsto
Sub-components:             :omponent)                                       Outputs)
Strengtheninghealth care    JS$ 0.70 million             %ogressreports      Continued availability of
'inancing                                                                    qualified staff inMOHs
                                                                             planning unit.


mproving health information JS$ 1.25 million             %ogressreports      Continued availability of
nanagement                                                                   qualified staff inMOHs health
                                                                             information systems unit.
mproving the Quality of     JS$9.56 million              'rogress reports    Cabinet approveshospital
Jaiola Hospital                                                              masterplanand equipment
                                                                             norms.

                                                                             Government provides needed
                                                                             humanresourcesto runthe
                                                                             redevelopedhospital.
'roject Management and      JS$O.87 million
Zoordination




                                                   - 36 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                           TONGA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Background:

The health sector in Tonga has been undergoing several reforms, many of them supported by AusAID. A
number o f these have been specifically directed at improving the functioning of the Vaiola Hospital and
the health system ingeneral. The first phase of the AusAID-supported Project concentrated on strategic
planning, general management reform, humanresource management including workforce planning,
financial management and information management. The second phasehas concentrated on extending
these activities from senior to middle management, hospital management, public health management,
pharmaceuticals and supplies inventory management, preparing services plan for the sector and a
masterplan overview for Vaiola hospital, and examining issues of data flow and logistics management in
several areas of the hospital and health system includingreviews of patient registration, disease
notification and vital registration. Computer software packages for financial and human resource
management have also been introduced in the MOH. An extension of PhaseIIwill be implementedin
the next two years and will focus on buildingon human resource and health management efforts. WHO
has also providedassistance for priority public health programs (rubella vaccine campaigns etc.),
technical assistance inhealth legislation and waste management and for the preparation of clinical
guidelines for NCD prevention and control, and i s planning a STEPSsurvey for 2003. Inaddition,
several donors including AusAID, WHO, SPC are involved inprimary prevention of non-communicable
diseases. A matrix of ongoing and proposed donor involvement in the sector i s inAttachment 1.

The Tonga Health Sector Support Project will buildon these efforts and focus on key priority issues
which remain unaddressed. The Project will support three areas of the government's reform program,
namely: (i)  strengthening health care financing, (ii)
                                                     strengthening health information systems and (iii)
improving the administrative, functional and technical quality of Vaiola Hospital. A fourth component
of the Project comprises its management, coordination and support activities.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$0.70 million
                       -

ComponentA. Strengthening healthcarefinancing

This component will support the review, development and implementation of policies which define the
funding and overall allocation of resources to health services. The overall objective of this component
will be to create a strengthened policy framework in health financing, resource allocation and health
services monitoring. Indiscussions with the Mmistry of Healththree key policy areas were identified
and activities were identifiedin support of these areas. The policy areas are as follows:

Policy Area 1: Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health to plan resource needsfor the
health sector

The main activity under this component i s to initiate, implement and institutionalize a system of National
HealthAccounts (NHA) in Tonga. NHA i s an internationally accepted tool that uses standardized
methodology to help understand how much money i s spent on health care in a country. NHA helps
answer the questions of where the money comes from, through which financing intermediaries it flows,
what it i s used for, and who benefits from these expenditures. The NHA analysis will help develop
policies to address the three issues of resource mobilization, resource allocation, and efficiency of



                                                   - 37 -

production.

Extensive discussions have taken place with senior policy makers including the Minister of Finance and
the Mmister of Health on conductingthe first Kingdomof Tonga NationalHealth Accounts Study. The
discussions and consultations have resultedin their support for initiating this activity. A Project Steering
Committee has been established and had its first meetinginJanuary of 2003. The NHAteamhas been
trained in the methodology, has met on a couple of occasions and some of the data collection instruments
have been modified to suit the Tongan context.

A key component of the NHA is estimating household expenditures on health. A consultant is workmg
with the Ministry of Health on the design and implementation of a household survey. It i s expected that
the development of the survey instrument as well as the work plan for conducting the fieldwork, data
entry and analysis will be completed shortly. The data from the survey will be usedto create the first
NHAestimates for Tonga.

The activities under this component will buildon the ongoing efforts and are designed to achieve the
following key objectives and outcomes:

         0     Capacity created within the Ministry of Healthto conduct NHA
         0    Accurate information will be available on the health expenditures in the country -public,
              private and external assistance. This information will identify the sources of health
               financing, the financing intermediaries through which these funds flow and their end use
         0    Improved capacity of the Mmistry of Healthto develop, inform and introduce policies
              pertaining to health care financing as well as integrating findingsinto the planningprocess
         0    A system of NHA established andinstitutionalizedwithin the Ministry of Health
         0    NHAfindingsintegratedintothe into the planning process at the Ministryof Healthand
              Ministry of Finance

Technical support and training will be providedunder the Project to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Health to conduct NationalHealth Accounts analysis to address the three issues of resource
mobilization, resource allocation, and efficiency of production.

Policy Area 2: Strengthening the role of the Ministry of Health infinancing primary health care and
preventive services

Prima facie evidence suggests that resource allocation in the health sector in Tonga i s skewed towards
curative care with 66 percent of the health expenltures allocated for hospitalcare. At the same time
expenditures on salaries account for 68 percent of the government budget with around 5 percent available
for maintenance. Inspite of the proportion of the government budget allocated to health the public health
sector i s seriously under funded and there i s a continued dependence on external assistance to support
health services.

Given the increase innon-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension the Ministryof
Healthrecognizes the value to investing inpreventive and primary health care services. However,
accurate baseline information i s not available on which to base policy decisions. As example, all hospital
expenditures are categorized as beingcurative innature even though a number of primary and preventive
health care services are providedat hospitals. Similarly, all expenditure incurred at primary health care
centers are classified as being primary even though these centers provide a number of curative care
services.



                                                     - 38 -

The National HealthAccounts methodology permits the analysis of expenditures by function or type of
 services. Once the basic NHA analysis has been completed it i s proposed to expand its scope to estimate
the "true expenditures on preventive and primary health care." These estimates will provide the baseline
numbers that will then be used to initiate a discussion with key government departments on increasing
resource allocations to preventive and primary healthcare services. The discussions will lead to the
creation of allocation targets. Subsequentrounds of NHA will then be used to assess whether the targets
have been achieved.

Technical assistance will be provided to buildcapacity within the Ministryof Healthin this area. At the
end of the Project period the expected outputs from the activities underthis policy area are:

         0   Capacity created within the Ministry of Health to use the NHA framework to estimate
             expenditures on preventive and primary health care
         0   Expenditures (amount and proportion) devoted to clearly identifiable preventive and primary
             health care services estimated
         0   Targets for the proportion by which the resources allocatedto the identified preventive and
             primary health care will be increased over the life of the Project developed
        0    Mmistry of Health expenhtures allocated to identifiedpreventive and primary health care
             services increased ina manner which will achieve the target change by the end of the Project

Policy Area 3. Developing options tofinance health services (including overseas treatment)and
implementing preferred option

Currently the Kingdom of Tonga spends around 12percent of its national budget on the sector. While
some increase in sector spending can be expected (upto around 15% of national recurrent budget), with
the emphasis on civil service reformand the deteriorating fiscal situation, there will be increased
pressure on the Ministry of Health to pay more attention to cost containment and develop methods to
mobilize new revenues to support any improvements in existingservices and any additional needs in the
sector. Currently the government provides for overseas treatment for civil servants while other citizens
are covered under a Medical Treatment Scheme supported by the New Zealand government. Overseas
treatment for civil servants continue to use up scarceresources of the government and New Zealand
government i s requiringthat the Tongan government identify ways to bear a greater share of the burden
of paying for overseas treatment for other citizens. The Treasury i s currently considering various
insurance options for covering the overseas treatment costs o f civil servants. Even if a plan i s developed
for civil servants it still leaves the issue of how to pay for other citizens unanswered.

The Ministry of Health in its Corporate Plan refers to identifyinguser fees for non-essential services with
exemptions for poor and vulnerable groups, revolving drug funds for pharmacy (while promotingrational
use of drugs) and reviewing and prioritizing proposals for contracting-out of certain services. With a
growingprivate sector the Ministry of Health would like to develop appropriate policies for developing a
mutually beneficial public-private partnership. The Ministryof Health has identified the development of
a health financing options paper as a key activity under this component. The health financing options
paper will use, among other things, the data from the NHA study and household survey. In addition it i s
proposed that special studies be undertaken. These include an in-depth assessment of user fees at
government facilities. This will look into the collection mechanisms, waivers for poor and vulnerable
groups, the amount of user fees collected and potential leakage in the system. The second study will
assess the use of public facilities by private practitioners for the care of their patients. While anecdotal
evidence exists regarding this it was felt a more reliable estimate i s needed on the extent and nature of
this use. An important issue will be how to protect poor and vulnerable patients frombeing `crowded
out' of the public hospital system by fee-paying private patients. Possible options include usingstrict


                                                      - 39 -

admission protocols, ensuring that patients are charged the full cost of services, and placing a ceiling on
the number of private patients admitted at any given time. The third analysis will explore the use of
contracting mechanisms for certain areas of the hospital (e.g. food services, laundry etc.) and will make
policy recommendations inthis regard. The M O Hlacks experience with contracting but has expressed
considerable enthusiasm for the concept. Starting with one or two areas will provide an opportunity for
the MOHto learn through experience, and may also reduce costs as compared with providingthese
services directly. The fourth analysis would look at insurance (private and social).

The information from these various studies will be synthesized into a "health financing options paper."
The paper will present the pros and cons of a number of key options (as example increasing user fees for
non-essential services and with clearly defined exemptions for the poor, contracting-out, social
insurance) and make a recommendation about the preferred option. The Ministryof Healthrecognizes
the needto involve key stakeholders inthe process becausewithout their buy-inreformefforts will fail.
Once the options have been identifieda political mapping of key stakeholder positions will be conducted
and this information used to develop and implement a strategy for getting stakeholder support for the
preferred option. Once the government and stakeholders have agreed to the preferred option, including
clearly defined exemptions for the poor and for essential health services, the government will start the
process of piloting the preferred option including puttingin place the necessary administrative and legal
orders/procedures. Usingevaluation techniques, the impact of this pilot on poor and vulnerable groups
will be monitoredand evaluated before formalizing such reforms.

Technical support and training to buildcapacity within the Ministry of Health in this areas as well as
fundingfor stakeholder consultants will be provided under the Project. At the end of the Project period
the expected outputs from the activities under this policy area are:

        e    Assessment studies completed
        e    Health care financing options paper produced that assesses different resource mobilization
             methods (user fees, social insurance, private insurance and others)
        e    Healthcare financing options discussed and preferredoption chosen
        e    Preferredoption piloted and evaluated including puttinginplace the necessary administrative
             and legal orders.


Project Component2 US$1.25 million
                     -

ComponentB. Improvinghealthinformationmanagement

The objective of this component is to improve the informationbase for policy and management decisions
inthe M O Hand at Vaiola Hospital, and to improvecommunity-baseddata collection andmanagement of
two essential non-communicablediseases: diabetes and hypertension. A wide range of
information-related studies and interventions have been carried out by the AusAID-funded Tonga Health
Project since 1999. But informationmanagement remains weak, both at the MOHand at Vaiola
Hospital, and most routinely collected data i s either not used, not trusted by clinicians and other potential
users, or only compiled annually into the Annual Report of the MOH. Efforts to collect health
information at the community level are virtually non-existent, and systematic mechanisms for channeling
information to productive uses-such     as health promotion initiatives, improvements in preventive and
curative care or disease surveillance-are   not yet in place. This component will therefore focus on three
areas: (i)strengthening the information culture in the MOH; (ii)   strengthening information management
and establishinga hospital information system at Vaiola; and (iii)   carrying out a pilot Project of
community-based detection and management of diabetes and hypertension along with reforms to improve


                                                    -40-

referral processesbetween the community and Vaiola Hospital.

B.l Strengthening the Information Culture in the MOH

The objective of this sub-component i s to develop appropriate informationinfrastructure and
management system in the Mnistry of Health to support the timely collection and accurate recording of
data; and provide training to ensure that these data are used effectively indecision-making. The focal
point for this component will be the expansion of the scope of the Health InformationCenter (currently
the health informationunit of the Ministry).

The Project will therefore: (a) provide training inbasic computer literacy for key M O Hstaff; (b)
strengthen and rationalize informationflows in the MOH, e.g. the transfer of information from health
centers to the MOH, birthsand deaths registration, communicable disease notification, etc.;(c) establish
a Health InformationCenter (HIC), appropriately equipped with computers and software for data entry
and analysis; and (d) provide specialized training for staff of the HIC to strengthen their data
management and analytical slulls.

Specific outputs of this component include: (i)   upgraded informationinfrastructure and analytical slulls
inthe HealthInformationCenter; (ii)     improved procedures for the collection, management and use of
informationthroughout the Ministry of Health, includingthe development and adoption of standardized
definitions (health data dictionary); (iii)
                                          consistent use of informationwithin the Ministry of Health to
review performance and informdecision-making; (iv) improved collection and monitoring systems for
public health data and (v) improvedcommunity-based reporting.

Expected Outcomes. By the mid-termof the Project implementation period, it i s anticipated that the
Health InformationCenter will have the capability, on a quarterly basis, to: (i) provide trends indata and
validation of critical data (for example, cause of death with co-morbidities, hospitalmorbidity rates,
diabetes prevalence and incidence), and report them to the health information steering committee for
appropriate action; (ii) collect and review critical data elements as a preliminary input to the Annual
Report. Iti s also anticipated that: (iii)
                                        a health data dictionary has been created with a minimumof 300
terms, thoroughly defined inboth syntax and semantics; and (iv) current health information processes
have been adapted to use a minimumof 100of these terms.

B.2 Developing and Implementing a Hospital Information Systemat Vaiola

The objective of this sub-component i s to provideinformationnecessary to improve the operational
efficiency and effectiveness of hospital services, andhence patient care. This would be achievedthrough
the introduction of a hospital informationsystem at Vaiola which will produce appropriate and accurate
reports for decision-makers, be sustainable, and allow the abolition of many current manual processes.

Inthe first phase(first two years), the focus of this component will beprimarilyon strengthening
procedures and processes for information flow, resulting in: improvedmedical recordmanagement and
more reliable medical records; more consistent and accurate clinical data; and more accurate, consistent
and reliable inpatient reporting from islandhospitals. An options paper for the HIS will be developed
based on three possible technical solutions: (a) Free standing Patient master index, ADT/disease index
and EDmodules operating ineach of the departments; (b) an integrated version of these modules, and (c)
a full-fledged level 1hospital information system. Capital and recurrent cost implications, the reports
produced and the reporting requirements will be outlined and a preferred option will be chosen after wide
consultation with Ministry of Health staff. Detailedfunctional specifications for the preferred option
will be developed. Among the options would be one which explores the possibility of a twinning


                                                     -41 -

arrangement with a large hospitalinthe region.

Inthe second phase, the component will finance the design and installation of and associated training for
the proposedhospital informationsystem. Detailed design will be completed on the basis of functional
specifications tailored to revised hospital business and informationmanagement processes.
Implementation of the hospital information systemalso needs to be synchronizedwith the redevelopment
of Vaiola hospital. The final design of the redevelopment will take into account the building
requirements for the hospital information system (electrical supply, data cabling, lighting, furniture,
adequate space for server, adequate workspace for the computer workstations, etc.).

Expected Outcomes. Outcomes inthe first phase will include: (i) reduction of errors in audited report
                                                                     the
samples; (ii) the introduction of an updated diagnostic coding system; (iii) integration of inpatient and
                                                                             the
outpatient records; and (iv) the routine capture of statistics from day surgery and mental health. The
expected outcome of the second phaseare: improved ability for decision makers to receive accurate and
timely reports on key hospital performance indicators - including but not limited to: average length of
stay, case mix, and indicative cost of care - that can contribute to the optimization of scare resources for
health care management in Tonga.

B.3 Information managementfor NCDprevention and control

The objective of this sub-component i s to improve the management and monitoring of patients with
non-communicable diseases, especially diabetes and hypertension. Diabetes and hypertensionexist at
very highrates inTonga. However they are typically diagnosed late, once complications have developed,
and while clinical management at Vaiola i s of highquality, the Ministry's ability to identify and follow
up cases inthe community is weak. The Project will provide support to the government for a broad
programof community-based non-communicable disease (NCD) reporting and case management
/coordinated care. The principal activity will be village-level NCD screening androutine monitoring
program. A NCD risk factor survey will be conducted infour demonstration villages. Healthofficers
and public health nurses in these communities will be trained in community-based identificationand
management of NCDs, especially diabetes and hypertension. The villages will be re-surveyed after two
years. This will be conducted usingan experimental design to measure improvements incase
management at the community level in these demonstration villages. The sub-component will also aim to
streamline and strengthen referral processes between the community and the Vaiola Hospital for diabetic
and hypertensive patients.

Expected Outcomes of this component include: (i)     improvedsecondary prevention of diabetes and
hypertensionwith early detection and more regular community-basedfollow-up and (ii)         improved
follow-up of diabetic and hypertensive patients at Vaiola Hospital, with a higher rate of patient capture
and fewer treatmentlfollow-up defaulters.

Project Component3 US$9.56 million
                      -

Component C. Improvingthe Qualityof VaiolaHospital

The objective of this component i s to improve the administrative, technical and functional efficiency of
Vaiola Hospitalby investing in infrastructure redevelopmentand management strengthening. Vaiola
Hospitalplays an important role inTonga's health system, not only as the country's tertiary referral
hospital but also as the sole public provider of primary care services to 47 percent of the population.
Originally designed as an infectious diseaseshospital, the current structure of Vaiola does not adequately
support its functional needs-particularly   inview of changing diseaseprofiles inTonga and the current


                                                    - 42 -

 preponderance of non-communicable diseases-and the efficiency of clinical practice has been hampered
 by the poor physical facilities. A client survey conducted in2001also pointed to poor physical facilities
 as the foremost area of public dissatisfaction with the hospital. This component will therefore focus on
 three areas: redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital, improvinghospital management and developing a health
 care waste management system.

 C.1:Redevelopment of VaiolaHospital

 The AusAID fundedTonga Health Project supported the development of a Masterplan Overview for
 Vaiola Hospital, which took into account current and future demand for acute services at Vaiola
 Hospital, as well as the buildingsand infrastructure requirement. The masterplan overview showed that
 the Vaiola hospital has insufficient space and a poor configuration for today's health care needs of the
 Tongan people. Redevelopment of Vaiola hospital will have several benefits to Tonga's health system.
 First,it will respondto public dissatisfactionwith the quality of the facilities, as expressedina recent
 client satisfaction survey carried out by the AusAID-funded Tonga Health Project, e.g. by improving the
 quality of patient areas and amenities and by ensuring adequate provisions for visiting family members.
 Second, it will improve the technical efficiency of the hospital by improving patient flows, ensuring easy
 access to equipment and providing greater roomfor administrative areas such as medical records and the
 health statistics unit. Third, it will improve quality of care by ensuring that the design o f the hospital i s
 suited the case mix it receives, with fewer infectious diseasebeds and more room for medium-stay
 patients with cardiovascular diseasesor other NCDs. Fourth, it will reduce the recurrent cost of hospital
 operations by following international best practices in hospital design for tropical climates, e.g. the
 maximumuse of natural light and ventilation, and for developing countries, e.g. methods to minimize the
 impact of power surges and outages on hospital equipment and patient care. Inaddition, as the social
 assessmentfor the Project revealed, adoption of user charges or other forms of cost recovery for hospital
care, while acceptable to the populationin principle, would be opposed unless corresponding
improvements were seen inthe physical facilities at Vaiola.

It is possiblethat the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospitalwill increase the demand for its services, e.g. by
patients who would otherwise have opted for treatment abroad. However, a significant increase in
demand i s not considered likely. Bed occupancy rates at present are low. The estimated number of beds
for the redeveloped hospital was calculated usingthese rates as a baseline, but also incorporated
estimates of population growth, immigration and emigration, and changes indisease profile. More
detailed estimates will be obtained duringthe master planningprocess. But since the range of services
offered at Vaiola i s not beingexpanded by the Project, and since secondary prevention of key
NCDs-diabetes       and hypertension-is    also planned, the likelihood of a significant increase inpatient
load is considered to be small. Of greater relevance i s the distribution of beds between services. The
current distribution i s skewed in favor of acute care beds, with relatively fewer beds for medium-stay
patients e.g. those with NCDs. The redeveloped hospital will have fewer beds overall but will be
designed in a way that maximizes flexibility intheir use. As such, changing disease profiles-or        even
short-term changes in the case mix presentingto the hospital-can be accommodated.

Three redevelopment options which ranged from minimal intervention maximizing the retention of
existing facilities, through to a major re-build with mostly new works were proposedand a preferred
option was approved by Cabinet inMay 2002 that best met the needs of all stakeholders and the
masterplan objectives, in terms of deliverability, risk and cost. This option entailed the redevelopment
(rehabilitation and expansion) of the Vaiola Hospital. The proposedProject will therefore support this
option for the redevelopment of the hospital. The preferredredevelopment option i s a staged operation
given the limitations of funding available for the entire redevelopment Project. The Kingdomof Tonga
i s exploring bilateral support for the later stages of the hospitaldevelopment that are not supported by the


                                                      -43-

 Credit.

 A detailed master plan for hospitalredevelopment is currently under preparation and will be finalized
 early inProject implementation. Based on the detailedmasterplan and the resource envelope of the
 Project funds, the Project will finance one or two stages of a combination of construction and
 rehabilitation on the existing Vaiola Hospital site. The provision of a ladderedincrease inthe
 maintenance budget for Vaiola Hospital has been included as a key covenant of the Project.

 C.2: Improving hospital management

 The AusAID-fundedprogram has made significant improvements inbasic management at Vaiola
Hospitaland the M O Hsince 1999. It concentrated on the management of Vaiola hospital but also
included components on public health management and inventory management at the central pharmacy.
This has resultedinnoticeable changes inorganizationalbehavior since 1999. These achievements
notwithstanding, much work remains in order to consolidate changes inmanagement practice and
translate these into improvedperformance. AusAID i s funding a two year extension of the PhaseIIof its
Tonga HealthProject, and some of this work will be continued under that Project. However, to ensure a
comprehensive program of management strengthening, it was agreedthat the Bank-financed Project
should include its own component of management strengthening for the Vaiola hospital. This will ensure
that hospital management i s improvedinparallel with the upgrading of hospital infrastructure, and that
an extended periodof secure financing i s provided for this purpose.

The hospital management sub-component will include a review of staffing patterns at the hospital and
will develop options to improve staffing. Of special concern i s the departure of qualified nurses from the
labor pool, some of them for jobs inNew Zealand and Australia and others for jobs outside the health
sector inTonga. The latter problemi s partly a function of HR policies in the MOH-in       particular, the
inability to hire nurses on a part-time basis or to adjust their deployment and schedules inresponse to
changes in case loads at the hospital-and    can be mitigated accordingly. The use of nurse aides should
also be considered for lower-level tasks inpatient care.

A recent client satisfaction survey carried out by the AusAID-funded Tonga HealthProject pointed to
several areas of client dissatisfaction with patients' treatment by staff. The hospital management
sub-component will consider options for increasing accountability of health staff, e.g. by conducting and
publicizingperiodic client satisfaction surveys, appointing a patient advocate at the hospital, etc. Client
satisfaction surveys will be carried out duringProject implementation and will providethe MOHwith
experience in obtaining feedback inthis way. The hospital management sub-component will explore and
help institutionalize this or other methods for the M O Hto receive periodic inputfrom clients.

The Project will therefore through technical support and training, finance ongoing efforts to strengthen
hospital management at Vaiola through: (a) training activities and management coaching for senior and
middle managers; and (b) the development and implementation of key management and human resource
policies at the hospital. Interventions to improve the efficiency of the hospitalwill also be identifiedand
implemented, including options such as contracting out some services and pursuingrevenue generation
opportunities.

C.3:Development of a health care waste managementsystem

A health care waste management feasibility study was conducted as part of the environmental assessment
for the Project. The study revealed that health care waste management inTonga and at the Vaiola
Hospitali s currently below best practice standards. The following approach to implement a health care


                                                     - 44 -

waste management system was proposed:

          (i)Development of a Health Care Waste Management Policy by the Ministry of Healthin
          conjunction with the Department of Environment and the Solicitor General's office;

          (ii)
             Development a National Health Care Waste Management Plan specific to each health care
         facility outliningprocedures and guidelines, waste definition and characterization, segregation
         techniques, containment and storage practices, collection and transport, treatment and disposal,
         and emergency procedures incase of contamination and spills; and,

         (iii)Implementation of the Waste Management Plan for Vaiola Hospital.

The Project will therefore finance improvements inhealth care waste management by providing technical
assistancefor strengthening the policy framework for waste management by preparing practice
guidelines and policy reforms. The Project will also procure items such as a new waste water treatment
facility, disposal containers for hazardous waste at Vaiola hospital and a vehicle for transportation of
hazardous waste to disposal sites. It will also finance in-service and external training for staff involved
in waste management at the hospital. Many of these activities will have spillover benefits to other health
facilities inTonga.

ProjectComponent4 US$0.87million
                       -

Component D. ProjectManagement and Coordination

This component includes the operation of the Project Management Unit(PMU) which will provide
Project support functions, includingday-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of Project
activities among implementing units, procurement, disbursement, accounting and financial management,
and liaising with and reporting to the Project Director. The Project will fundProject management
consultants, travel, training and the carrying out of audits of the accounts and financial statements of
expenditures relating to the Project.




                                                    - 45 -

                                                                                             Attachment 1

                Matrix of ongoingand proposed donor involvement

AusAID                     Substantial technical assistance to the health sector. Focus on improving
                           management capacity in the M O Hand at Vaiola hospital inparticular. Have
Tonga Health Project:      funded a management information system for the hospital that i s now
US$1.57 million (`99-04)   operational. Currently inPhase 11of the Tonga Health Project but soon to
                           conclude this Project. An extension of Phase IIof the Project will focus on
Diabetes Prevention &      hospitalmanagement and humanresource management. Also planning a solid
Treatment: US$285,000      waste management Project that will develop a landfill for Nuku'alofa. Principal
(`01-`04)                  focus of future AusAID assistance to GOT seems to be in governance and public
                           sector reform.
Solid Waste Management
(proposed):
US$3.65 million (`02-06)
ADB                       Currently supporting an Economic and FinancialSector ReformProject.
US$10 million; and        Legislative changes are currently under way and will be followed by a second
TA Credit US$7 million     phase concentratingon civil service reforms. GOT has indicated that health i s a
                          priority for the government and will not be subject to significant retrenchment
                          under this program. MOHi s beingused as a pilot for reforms in human resourcc
                           and financial management.
NZAID                     Two principal areas of assistanceto the health sector inTonga: (i)   provision of
                          visiting medical specialists to Tonga and (ii)  support for treatment of Tongan
                          nationals in the New Zealand health system. N o other direct involvement inthe
                          health sector. Within the social sectors, principal focus of NZAID i s on
US$165,000                education.
EU                        Proposed significant assistance (3.7 million Euros) to Vava'u for health,
                          education and solid waste management as part of post-cyclone recovery efforts.
2003-2004:                The health-related assistancewill include rehabilitation of health facilities and
US$500,000                provision medical equipment.
WHO                       Represented inTonga by a Country Liaison Officer based at the MOH.
                          Significant technical assistancein developing a policy framework for NCD
                          control and in several other priority public health areas under the Healthy Island:
                          initiative. Have financed recent consultant reports on health care waste
                          management and health legislation. 40 percent of annual budget provides
                          fellowships for overseas training: most of it as short courses or for attendance at
                          international conferences.
SPC                       Purchasing incinerators for the customs and quarantine service that will be
                          stationed on each island and might also be used for incineration of selected
US$27,000                 medical wastes.

                          Technical assistance innutrition and NCDs.




                                               - 46 -

                               Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                    TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT



A StrengtheningHealth Care Financing                          0.17          0.45       0.62
B. ImprovingHealthInformationManagement                                                0.00
    B1. Strengtheningthe InformationCulture                   0.04          0.24       0.28
    B2. Development of aHospitalInformationSystem at          0.04          0.63       0.67
         Vaiola
    B3. InformationManagement for NCD Prevention and          0.02          0.14       0.16
         Control
C. Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital                                            0.00
    C1. Redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital                      1.37          6.69       8.06
    C2. Improvinghospital management                          0.12          0.19       0.31
    C3: Development of a health care waste management         0.01          0.20       0.21
          system
D.Project Management and Coordination                         0.56          0.18       0.74
Total BaselineCost                                            2.33          8.72      11.05
 PhysicalContingencies                                        0.12          0.44       0.56
 PriceContinaencies                                           0.31          0.46       0.77
                             Total ProjectCosts1              2.76     I    9.62       12.38
                       Total Financing Required               2.76      1   9.62       12.38

                                                             Local        Foreign     Total
                 Project Cost By Category                   US$million   US $million US$million
Civil Works                                                     1.57           5.72       7.29
Goods                                                           0.04           1.36       1.40
ConsultingServices                                              0.57           2.36       2.93
Training & Workshops                                            0.44           0.10       0.54
IncrementalOperating Costs                                      0.14           0.08       0.22
                                        Total Project Cost:     2.76           9.62      12.38
                                   Total FinancingRequired      2.76           9.62      12.38




                                              - 47 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                           TONGA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

 This annex presents the economic analysis for the Tonga HealthSector Support Project. The Project
 supports health reform inthe Kingdomof Tonga by improving the capacity of the Ministry of Health to
 develop and implement health financing policy; and collect, manageand use health information and by
 improving the administrative, functional and technical quality of Vaiola Hospital. The economic analysis
 covers the following areas: (i)  cost benefit analysis of Project interventions (ii)risk-sensitivity analysis
 and (iii) an assessment of the fiscal impact of the Project.

The Project supports the development and implementation of policies which define the fundingand
 overall allocation of resources to health services. These policies will assist inimproving allocative
efficiency by shiftingresources to more cost-effective preventive and primary health care services. In
addition, new sources for financing health services will be identifiedand mechanisms for mobilization of
these resources will be identifiedreleasing more funds for preventive and primary care services. This
includes among other options the identification of user fees (while ensuringexemptions for poor and
vulnerable groups), charges for private patients usingpublic health facilities, development of drug
revolving funds for pharmaceuticals (accompanied with mechanisms for rationaluse of drugs), or income
from the provision of provisionof commercial laundry services, servicing of biomedical equipment for
the private sector, sale of staff andrelatives meals, large scale event catering and leasing facilities for
private clinical practice such as parking, restaurant facilities, retail capacity for news agency, retail
pharmacy, gifts, florist and snacks. Inaddition, improved collection and use of health information
would assist in the development of cost-effective health promotioninitiatives, and improvements in
preventive and curative care or disease surveillance.

The Project will fund community-based surveillance of non-communicable diseases especially diabetes
and hypertension and training in the management of such diseases. Diabetes prevention and management
i s a high priority in Tonga, given the highprevalence rate of 13.5% and the significant costs associated
with late diagnosis and treatment. Community-based screening programs supported by the Project, will
reduce morbidity, mortality and costs associated with diabetes and its complications such as
cardio-vascular disease (CVD), hdney failure, blindness and limbamputations. Screening of
hypertension too i s cost effective as it i s easy to diagnose, and early treatment can reduce the risk of later
complications. Case management of hypertension, as supportedby the Project, i s an effective way of
preventing morbidity and mortality from CVD, for which hypertension i s an important risk factor. Once
diagnosed, most hypertensives can be managed with a combination of behavior change and, if this fails,
with antihypertensive medications. Drugs for hypertension can be purchased at low cost annual cost of
around $5 per patient. Additional costs of perhaps US$5 per patient will be incurredfor clinic visits,
behavioral counseling, and health worker training, for a total cost per patient of approximately US$10per
year. Interms of efectiveness, recent studies have shown that a 5 to 6 " H g reduction inblood pressure
reduces the incidence of heart attack by 14to 17 percent, the risk of stroke by 42 percent, and the risk of
mortality due to all vascular causes by 21 percent. This reduction can be obtained either by drugtherapy
or, inmany cases, by dietary change and physical activity alone. Benefits of improvedmanagement of
NCDs also include the alleviation of pain, suffering and the loss of employment opportunities through
illness among infected individuals, and the reducedcost of caringfor sick individuals and coping with
decreases inhouseholdincome due to illness and death in otherwise-productive family members or
households.

Redevelopment of Vaiola hospital will have several benefits to Tonga's health system. First, it will
respond to public dissatisfaction with the quality of the facilities, as expressed in a recent client



                                                       - 48 -

 satisfaction survey carried out by the AusAID-funded Tonga Health Project, e.g. by improving the
 quality of patient areas and amenities and by ensuring adequateprovisions for visiting family members.
 Second, it will improve the technical efficiency of the hospital by improving patient flows, ensuring easy
 access to equipment and providinggreater roomfor administrative areas such as medical records and the
health statistics unit. Third, it will improve quality of care by ensuring that the design o f the hospital i s
 suited the case mix it receives, with fewer infectious diseasebeds and more roomfor medium-stay
patients with cardiovascular diseases or other NCDs. Fourth, it will reduce the recurrent cost of hospital
operations by following international best practices in hospital design for tropical climates, e.g. the
maximumuse o f natural light and ventilation, and for developing countries, e.g. methods to minimize the
impact of power surges and outages on hospital equipment and patient care.

Summaryof Benefits and Costs:

Quantifiable benefits of the Project was measuredby the reduced number of inpatient admissions due to
complications among persons with a confirmeddiagnosis of diabetes or hypertension as a result of early
identificationand management of these illnesses. The costs of the Vaiola Hospitalredevelopment and
the improvement of NCD management components of the Project are US$9,357,413. The total
quantifiable benefits (savings) of the Project i s US$42,899,487. The benefit cost ratio for the Project i s
4.6 and the net present value of Project benefits discounted at 10percent i s US$14,049,375 with an
internal rate of return of 47 percent.

MainAssumptions:

This section attempts to compare the costs of the Project with the measurable economic benefits that arise
from the implementation of the Project. Since much of the data necessary for such analyses i s laclung,
the analysis containedin this section i s based on available informationfrom annual reports of the
Ministry of Health and provides a very conservative estimate of the Projects benefits.

Quantifiable benefits of the Project would result from savings from the reducednumber of inpatient
admissions due to complications among persons with a confirmeddiagnosis of diabetes or hypertension
as a result of early identification and management of these illnesses. While reducing the number of beds
will leadto cost-savings, these savings are not taken into account inthis analysis.

Itassumedthat the number of admissions due to diabetes andits complications remains constant at the
1998 value (MOH Annual Report, 1998) of 2.1% of total hospital admissions and that the number of
admissions due to hypertensionand its complications remains constant at the 1998 value (MOH Annual
Report, 1998) of 0.8% of total hospital admissions, and that the cost per admission for diabetes related
complications i s five times the average cost (since the length of stay for a diabetes patient i s on average
five times the average length of stay at Vaiola) and that for hypertensionrelated admissions i s twice the
average cost per hospital admission (since the length of stay for a cardiovascular disease patient is on
averagetwice the average length of stay at Vaiola) respectively. (The average cost per admission i s
estimated at US$518, usinginpatient recurrent expenditure dividedby the number of admissions for
2000, and per bedday at U S 9 3 usingfigures from the same year.) It is further assumedthat the number
of inpatient admissions due to complications among persons with a confirmeddiagnosis of diabetes and
that due to hypertension reduces by 10%respectively with the same ten year period. The resultant
savings ininpatient costs over the ten year period i s US$42,899,487.

The costs of the Vaiola Hospital redevelopment and the improvement of N C D management components
of the Project are US$9,357,413. The total quantifiable benefits (savings) of the Project i s



                                                    - 49 -

  US$42,899,487. The benefit cost ratio for the Project i s 4.6 and the net present value of Project benefits
  discounted at 10percent is US$14,049,375 with an internal rate of return of 47 percent.

  Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:

  Several factors could lead to delays in accruing Project benefits. This could be the result of delay in
  implementation of Project activities. These delays could result in lowered Project benefits. Several
  scenarios were considered which result inbenefits which are 75%, 50% and 25% of those assumedinthe
  case presented above are the results are inTable 1. Only in the last scenario where very limited Project
  benefits are assumed, the net present value of Project benefits becomes negative.

               Table 1:Sensitivity analysis using loo%, 75%, 50%, and 25% benefit flows

  Impact                                100%               75%              50%              25%
~




  Costs inUS$                        9,357,413          9,357,413        9,357,413        9,357,413
  BenefitsinUS$                     42,899,487          32,174,616       16,087,308       4,021,827
  Netpresentvalue of benefitsin      14,049,375         8,685,809         640,460         -5,393,552

 Intemalrate ofretum                     47                 34                12


 Fiscal Impact:

 The government's health budget allocation inFY03 was T$ 10.14 million. Donor contributions
 provided an additional T$2.75 million in assistance to the health sector. The recurrent cost implications
 of the hospital redevelopment and the government's mediumand longterm plans for hospital
 management and staffing were analyzed duringProject preparation. Currently the government spends 60
 percent of its recurrent healthbudget on Vaiola Hospitaland five percent of the health recurrent budget
 on the maintenance of the hospital. The recurrent cost study estimates that under the preferred option
 for hospital redevelopment, the estimated net annual recurrent cost for the preferred option would be
 between 60 and 64 percent of its health recurrent budget assuming the cost of maintenance and
 replacement of plant and equipment ranges between6 to 8 percent of the cost of capital and keeping
 current levels of revenue generation, including an increase in the budget allowance for maintenance and
 replacement of plant and equipment and achieving a 5 percent operational efficiency dividend.

 Capacity to generate additional income i s a key factor inthe capacity to sustain the future role, scope and
 function o f Vaiola Hospital. An initial conservative assessmentsuggests a potential increase in income
 of circa T$O.7 million. The potential income earning opportunities investigated inthe assessment
 includes: introducing outpatient fees, private wing facility and procedure fees, laundry fees, food service
 fees and increasing mortuary storage service fees. This would mean the net recurrent cost o f Vaiola
 hospital would reduce to between 55 and 59 percent of the recurrent health budget under the same
 assumption as above. The Project will be exploringoptions for mobilizing additional resources through
 its healthcare financing component. In addition, increased allocation of the government's recurrent
 budget to health and an increased allocation for maintenance inthe health budget over the Project period
 are key conditions of the Project.

 While the overall staffing of Vaiola hospital i s known to be broadly similar to that of benchmark
 hospitals inAustralia, based on a review of staffing levels for Vaiola hospitalcarried out by the AusAID
 supported Tonga Health Project in 2002, it was recognizedthat certain areas of hospital staffing-
 especially those concerned with hospital maintenance, waste management and information management



                                                     - 50 -

-wouldneedtobeincreasedandmaintainedinordertomeettheneedsofanupgradedhospital.
Maintainingthese hospital staff would be key for successful Project implementation and therefore i s a
condition under the credit. On the whole however, given the predicted small increase inpopulation and
subsequent small estimated increase in the number of patients treated, plus the potential benefits of new
health technology and hospital systems reengineering/refor, the net staffing position suggests minimal
change in the total number of staff will be required. These increments will inpart be offset by the
proposedreduction of beds from 202 to around 170. It i s unlikely that this reduction will lead to a need
for major changes instaffing pattems and slull mix. The predominant deficit identifiedinthe AusAID
report was a shortage of nurses in the medical ward -a shortage that mightactually be mitigated by the
proposed reductionof beds. However, shortages of doctors inthe outpatients and emergency
departments, of staff in the laboratory, and of nurses inthe ICU/CCU will remain to be addressed.

                     Table 2. RecurrentCost Implicationsof Vaiola HospitalRedevelopment
                                                (basedonFY02103 budgetinT$)


                                                                Maintenance cost at 6%                Maintenance Cost at 8%


             Revenues                                             261,000"          969,934""           261,000"             969,934""

             Expenditures

             Vaiola Hospital Recurrent                          7,471,820           7,471,820         7,471,820            7,471,820

             Additional Maintenance funds
             needed after redevelopment                           993,612              993,612        1,478,308             1,478,308

             Total expenditure needed for Vaiola                8,465,432           8,465,432         8,950,128            8,950,128
            Hospital

            Total recurrent expenditures for
            Vaiola Hospitalnet of revenue                       8,204,432           8,689,128         8,689,128            7,980,194

            Savings from improvedefficiency
            (5% efficiency dividend)                             410,222              374,775           434,456              399,010




            As % of Total HealthBudgetfor
            FY02/03***                                           60.4%                55.2%           64.0%                58.8%




* Revenue maintained at current levels
** Revenue  increasedthrough additional income through the introduction of outpatient fees andprocedure fees, laundry fees, food service fees
and increasing mortuary storage service fees.
*** Estimated  MOHExpenditurefor FY02/03 =T$ 12,898,852




                                                                 -51   -

                               Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                       TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                                            Years Ending
                                               June 30
                                                        IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                        I           I               I         I        I        I        I
                                   ~   ~~~


                          Year1            Year2      Year3     Year4    Year5    Year6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs           0.6               1.1         2.7      4.4      3.2      0.3     0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.0               0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs          0.6               1.1         2.7      4.4      3.2      0.3      0.0
Total Financing              0.6               1.1         2.7      4.4      3.2      0.3      0.0

Financing
  IBRDhDA                    0.5               0.9         2.3      4.0      3.0     0.2       0.0
  Government                 0.1               0.2         0.4      0.4      0.2     0.1       0.0
      Central                0.0               0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
      Provincial             0.0              0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
  Co-financiers              0.0              0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
User Feesmeneficiaries       0.0              0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0              0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      0.6               1.1         2.7      4.4      3.2     0.3       0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                                  - 52 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                          TONGA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

 Procurement

 There i s no Country Procurement Assessment Report for Tonga. An extended Operational Procurement
 Review mission i s scheduled in this fiscal year. This procurement assessmenttherefore looked at both
 the national legal framework as well as the country procurement capacity. The procurement assessment
 i s based on findings of the identification and preparation missions which includedextensive
 consultations with the staff of Ministries of Health, Works, Lands, Survey and NaturalResources and
 Finance. The team paidparticularly attention to the local private sector's architecture, engineering and
 supervision and construction capacities and capabilities. The team also visited the national
 pharmaceutical warehouse and heldin-depth discussions regarding their procurement procedures and
inventory and management control system. A detailed procurement assessmenti s available in Project
 files.

LegalFramework

There are no existing procurement guidelines "per sell issuedby the Kingdom of Tonga, and there i s no
national competitive biddingi s proposed under the Project. Therefore there i s no risk of inconsistency of
localprocurement procedures with the Bank Procurement Guidelines.

There i s no evidence that Banks Guidelines are not being followedby the Kingdom of Tonga in the
emergency Credit for the Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management Project financed by IDA,
where international competitive biddingand hiringof internationalconsultants have been carried out
without any incident.

Local legal channels and legal counsels to handle contract disputes exist within the country.

Assessment of Implementation Agencies' Capacity and Action Plan

The main implementing agency, the Ministry of Healthhas received a PHRD Grant totalingUS$
203,850.00, for the preparation of the proposedHealthSector Support Project. The Project Management
Unit(PMU)has been carrying out afew procurement activities including the hiringof consultants using
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) and Individual Selection (IS) methods as well as purchasing
goods usingthe shopping procedures.

Given the limited procurement experience usingthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines, the teamratedthe
overall capacity of the implementation agency as still weak and the associated risks as highgiven there i s
no clear procurement legal framework in the country.

Procurement capacity needs to be strengthened in order to implement this Project which has to be
implemented within five years. The Bank preparationteam has providedbasic procurement and
disbursement training, which were specific to the Project, to the Senior HealthPlanning Officer/Project
Director and Project Coordinator/Accountant during the Appraisal Mission. In addition, a Procurement
Advisor with World Bank procurement experience will be hiredby the PMUafter Project effectiveness
and by February 28, 2004, to work with the national procurement officer to provide guidance and
assistance inthe preparation of procurement documents and in conducting the procurement process itself
for the first three years of the Project. The Procurement Advisor will also develop a Procurement



                                                    - 53 -

Manual for the Project and train the P M Uincludingthe project procurement officer on project
management and procurement reportingrequirements.

Implementation and Procurement Arrangements

General oversight will be provided by a Project Steering Committee which has already been established
and is composed of representatives from the Ministries of Health, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Works,
the Department of Statistics, Central PlanningDepartment and Crown Law Department. This committee
will be chaired by the Minister of Healthand will meet on a quarterly basis. The committee will be
responsible for the overall coordination of project implementation to ensure that project objectives are
achieved.

A Project Director appointed within the Ministry of Healthwill beresponsible for carrying out the
overall management of the Project on a part time basis, heading the Project Management Unit,and acting
as executive Secretary to the Project Steering Committee. Three officers have been appointed as
ImplementationManagers and will be retaineduntilcompletion of the Project for purposes of managing
of carrying out o f selected components of the Project: an Architect seconded from the Ministry of Works
for managing the carrying out of the Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital component; the Principal
HealthAdministrator from the Ministry of Health for managingthe carrying out of the health care
financing component; and a clinician-manager from the Ministry of Health for managing the carrying out
of the health information management component. All of said implementation managers will report to
the Project Director. In addition, for purposes of assisting each implementation manager, worlung groups
have been identified for each component of the project and will monitor, provide technical input and
serve as a consultative forum for the Implementation Managers worlung on each component. One
sub-working group will be established to assist one of said working groups and a NationalHealth
Accounts Steering Committee headedby the Director of Health and comprising representatives of the
Borrower's Ministryof Health, Mmistry of Finance, Department of Statistics, and Central Planning
Department, has been established to assist the Sub-working Group in the carryingout of its respective
activities under the Project.

The day-to-day operations of the Project will be carried out by a Project ManagementUnit (PMU). This
unit will be headedby the Project Director and will comprise of four full-time staff: a Project
ImplementationCoordinator; a Procurement Officer; a Project Accountant; and a Project Administrative
Assistant. The PMUwill be responsible for carrying out the day-to-day management, monitoring and
coordination of Project activities among implementing units, procurement, disbursement, accounting and
financial management, and liaising with and reporting to the ProjectDirector.

Procurement Guidelines and Advertisement

The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Banks standard biddingdocuments and evaluation forms will be
used for the procurement of goods and works usingintemationalcompetitive bidding(ICB) procedures.
Domestic preference will not apply for this Project.

Procurement of services will be done inaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002). Banks standard request for proposals, contract forms and evaluation
forms for consultant services will be for the Project. Large-value consultant contracts costing more than
US$200,000 each shall be advertised inboth intemational and national newspapers and inDevelopment
Business (UNDB).Invitations for expressions of interest for all consulting firmcontracts shall be


                                                   - 54 -

 advertized ina national gazette or a national newspaper.

A GeneralProcurement Notice (GPN) hasbeen publishedinthe UNDBon May 31,2003 and will be
 updated annually thereafter, if needed.


 Procurement methods(Table A)

Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements under the Project by IDA Credlt and Table A.1
shows selection methods for consultant services.

CivilWorks (US$7.29 million equivalent)

There will only be one civil works contract for the renovation of the Vaiola Hospital inNuku'alofaduring
the second and thirdyears of the Project implementation. This contract consists of site works and
infrastructure, demolitions, construction of new buildings and rehabilitation of existing buildings
according to a viable phasingplan. ICB procedures will be used and is subject to prior review.

Goods (US$1.40 million equivalent)

Goods needed for the Project consists of medical equipment, medical supplies, furniture, office
equipment, office supplies, computers and software, two project vehicles, and waste disposal equipment.

For goods contracts: (a) valued less than US$lOO,OOO each international shopping procedures will be
used, and (b) valued less than US$50,000 each national shopping procedures will be used; up to an
aggregate amount of US$320,000. Comparison of three price quotations from at least two countries will
be required for international shopping, or national shopping procedures will apply where the desired
goods are ordinarily available from more than one source in the country at competitive prices. Requests
for price quotations will indicate the description and quantity of the goods as well as the desired delivery
time and place. Some off-the-shelf standard items, such as office equipment, vehicles, and medical
suppliers, which are permitted under the shopping procedures mentioned above, may also be procured
through UNagencies, for example, IAPSO, WHO or UNICEF, as appropriate.

For goods contracts valued at greater than and equal to US$lOO,OOO, ICB procedures will be used.

ConsultantServices (US$2.93 million equivalent)

Consultant services will be mainly provided by individuals, both local and international, up to an
aggregate amount of US$1,430,000 and selected in accordance with Section V of the Bank's Consultant
Guidelines including sole source, if the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines are met,
and subject to Bank's prior approval. Individualconsultants will be hiredfor project management and
technical assistancein institutional strengthening and capacity building. Single Source Selection (SSS)
methodup to an aggregate amount of US$30,000 will be used for technical assistance in financial
management and will be subject to Bank's prior review. Least-Cost Selection (LCS) methodup to an
aggregate amount of US$53,000 will be used for the hiringof firms for audit services. Quality-Based
Selection (QBS) method up to an aggregate amount of US$1,300,000 will be used for the hiringof the
following firms: an architectural and engineering firmfor the design and supervision of the renovation of
the Vaiola Hospital(US$1,040,000) and a consulting firmfor technical assistanceinhealth care
financing (US$260,000). government will finance 100%of four Project management positions for a total
amount of $120,000 including Project Director, Health Care Financingand Information SystemManager,


                                                   - 55 -

 Hospital Redevelopment Manager, and InformationTechnology Manager.

 Trainingand Workshops (US$0.54 million equivalent)

 Training activities will largely include in-country workshops and seminars for upgrading the s h l l s of
 health personnel, health managers and professionals, and key stakeholders. The Project will provide
 short-term overseas training for national health account professionals and Project management staff.
 Staff working on the health financing component will attend a few overseas conferences while staff
 workmg on the health informationsystems component will be provided overseas training through
 twinning arrangements. Destinations for overseas training, conferences and twinning arrangements will
 be selected on the basis of relevance and quality of programs, cost and prior experience and will follow
 applicable government and short listingprocedures. Training activities for each year will be included in
 the annual work plan for the Project and subject to IDA approval.

 Incrementaloperating costs (US$0.22 millionequivalent)

 Funds to support Project management costs consists of communication costs (e.g. telephone bills,
 internet access), technology support, small quantities of office consumables, bank charges and
 supervision includingtransportation and travel per diemfor Project implementation and management
 team. These will all be availed in accordance with government administrative procedures acceptable to
 IDA.

                         Table A ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)




costs                                       (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.22)         (0.00)        (0.22)
   Total                                     8.37                0.00             3.89           0.12          12.38
                                            (7.21)              (0.00)           (3.73)         (0.00)        (10.94)


 2'Includesgoods to be procuredthroughinternationalandnationalshopping as well as purchases throughUN
   Agencies, consultingservices, training and workshop, and incrementaloperatingcosts inaccordancewith
   government administrativeprocedures acceptable to IDA.
Incrementaloperating costs includecommunicationcosts, technologysupport, transportationandper diemfor
Project supervision and monitoring surveys, smallquantities of office consumables,bank charges and translation
fees.




                                                      - 56 -

                       Table A1: ConsultantSelection Arrangements(optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)

                                                           Selection Method
   Consultant Services
  ExpenditureCategory        QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS         CQ     Other     N.B.F.   Total Cost'
 A. Firms                     0.00      1.30      0.00      0.05       0.00     0.03      0.00       1.38
                             (0.00)    (1.30)    (0.00)     (0.05)    (0.00)   (0.03)    (0.00)     (1.38)
 B. Individuals               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     1.43      0.12       1.55
                             (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)   (1.27)    (0.00)     (1.27)
                    Total     0.00      1.30      0.00      0.05       0.00     1.46      0.12      2.93
                             (0.00)    (1.30)    (0.00)     (0.05)    (0.00)   (1.30)    (0.00)     (2.65)




Based on the risk assessmentand the findings of the procurement capacity of the implementing main
agency, i.e. Ministry of Health, the thresholds for prior review and supervision plan have been set
accordingly and are presented inTable below.

Civil works: Prior review by IDA will be requiredfor all civil works contracts regardless of value.

Goods: All ICB contracts valued at greater than and equal to US$lOO,OOO each, the first international
and national shopping contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other goods contracts below
the prior review threshold will be subject to random post review by IDA.

Consultant Services: All individual contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 each, contracts
for consulting firms valued greater than and equal to US$lOO,OOO each as well as all single source
selection contracts regardless of value will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other consultant
contracts will be subject to randompost review by IDA. All terms-of-reference (TORS)for consultant
contracts above the prior review thresholds stated above are subject to the approval of IDA.




                                                    - 57 -

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review

                                   Contract Value                                      Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                Procurement                  Prior Review
                                         US$                       Method                        US$
                              All contracts regardless of           ICB               (Allregardless of value)
                                        value                                             US$7.29 million
?.Goods                         equal and greater than              ICB                (equal and greater than
                                    us$loo,ooo                                              us$loo,ooo)
                                                                                          US$l.O8 million
                                                           Procurement from UN           The first contract of
                                                                agencies and         international shopping and
                                                                International            national shopping
                                                                  Shopping                US$O.10million

                                    <US$50,000               NationalShoming.
1. Services
   Firm                                                          LCS/Sss               (AllSSS regardless of
                                                                                                value)
                                                                                          US$0.03 million
                               equal and greater than                                  (equal and greater than
                                    us$loo,ooo                                              us$loo,ooo)
                                                                                          US$1.30 million
   Individual                 All individual consultants         Individual            (equal and greater than
                                 regardless of value                                 US$50,000) or selected on
                                                                                         a sole source basis,
                                                                                      regardless of the amount
                                                                                           US$0.7 million
I. Training and                all annual training and             Other                  US$0.54 million
Yorkshop                         workshop program



                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$11.04 million
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
    Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:          One every six months
                                                                     (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                     for post-review/audits)


One in five contracts will be reviewed by the post review procurement supervision mission.




                                                   - 5%-

              Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                           TONGA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

Financial Management
1. Summary oftheFinancialManagementAssessment

Inaccordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, an assessment of the financial management system inthe
Ministry of Health was conducted by the Bank's Financial Management Specialist.

There i s no Country FinancialAccountability Assessment conducted by any donors nor lenders for the
Kingdom of Tonga. However, the accounting systems of the M O F and M O Hhave recently been
computerized with assistancefrom AusAID. The government has also received an ADB loan of US$10
million and TA Credit of US$7 million for its Economic and Public Sector Reform Program; its objective
being to ensure overall macroeconomic stability and to enhance private sector-led economic growth.
Among several advisory services and support for capacity building,the TA addressesrelevant financial
management issues to the World Bank's Project, Le., good governance practices and strengthening the
planning, monitoring and reporting capability of the ministries.

The government`s existing accounting systemconcentrates mainly on bookkeeping. The transactional
control over expenditures and the concept of utilizing financial management information for decision
malung i s gradually emerging. For this Project, a separate financial reporting system will be designed for
Project implementation purposes, since the AusAID financed computerization of the MOHaccounting
systemi s at its early stage of implementation. Inaddition, MOHdoes not have sufficient qualified
accounting staff to take on more responsibilities.

Financial Management Arrangements. A PMU, locatedinthe MOH, has been established to coordinate
the tasks. The Project Director, who i s also an M O Hregular management staff will head the PMU,
which will maintain four key staff, the Implementation Coordinator, the Procurement Officer, the Project
Accountant, and Project Administrative Assistant. The P M Ustaff will be appointed on a full-time basis
to monitor and supervise progress under the Project. The FinancialManagement System (FMS) will be
managedby the Project Accountant. The Project Accountant will prepare financial management reports
on a quarterly basis, and integrate these reports into the semi-annual progress reports.

The government has agreed to install and adopt the integrated financial management and accounting
system that i s currently used by the PMUfor the Cyclone Emergency Recovery and Management Project
(CERMP). This system could generate the reporting informationrequired to effectively monitor the
Project. The detailed time bound action plan to set-up the financial management system and to
strengthen capacity was discussed and agreed upon with the government. Fulldetails on financial
management arrangements are includedin the financial management assessment report, which kept in
Project files.




                                                    - 59 -

The action plan for the implementation of the Project Financial Management Systemi s inthe table
below.



                    Action                   Responsibility        Due Date             Remarks

    FinancialManagement Manual            PMUand                April, 2003
    (FM)                                  :onsultant


       Submit final draft of the manual                         Negotiations      Completed
       acceptable to IDA.

       Adoption o f Financial                                   Project
       Management Manual                                        Effectiveness

    FinancialManagement
    Arrangements

    Establish computerized Financial      M O Hand              Project           PMuengaged a
    danagement System acceptable to       Consultant            Effectiveness     consultant to set-up a
    D A                                                                           computerized
                                                                                  accounting system.



    ippoint a Project Accountant with     MOH                   Project
    ualifications acceptable to IDA                             Effectiveness

     Audit Arrangements

    Appoint an independent auditor with vIOH                    zebruary 28,
    le Terms of Reference acceptable to                         !004
    DA



    Financial Management Reporting

    Produce set of F M R s every
     quarter, 45 days after the first     'Mu                   (first report)    Agreed
    quarter of effectiveness                                    expected
                                                                March 15,
                                                                2004



Project Accounting. The Chart of Accounts will comply with the International Accounting Standards for
proper Project financial management, to enable its system to show cost categories or commitments by
contract. The Chart of Accounts will conform to the classification sources of funds and expenditures, as
detailed in the Project documents (Financial Management Manual). The PMUwill be in charge of
Project financial management, including accounting functions and reportingactivities, and will utilize the
computerizedaccounting system that will be installed by a consultant. The systemwill facilitate



                                                 - 60 -

reporting of financialtransactions and enable the Project Accountant to maintain accountingrecords,
includingreceipt and disbursement of funds and commitments and accruals, in a timely manner. Some of
the basic accounting records includedin the CERMP computerized accounting system are the cash
journal, billregister, contractors/consultants ledger, etc. The availability of data from the computerized
accounting system will help the PMUmeet Project management information needs. An internal control
system will be builtinto the systemto clearly define and document the accountingmethodology to be
followed for recording Project related transactions by the PMU.

StafSingand Training. The overall Project implementation, management and coordination arrangements
are described in Section C4 of the mainreport. The Financial Management Systemfor the Project will
be managedby the Project Accountant. To ensure that the Project Accountant i s provided with sufficient
support duringthe first three years of the Project, the government will engage the services of a suitable
accounting firmto provide end-of-the month support. This includes, on-the-job training for the Project
Accountant, assistance inthe preparation of special account reconciliation statements, withdrawal
applications, financial statements and reports and supporting schedules.

Financial Management. A Financial Management Manual will be developed for the Project. The
FinancialManagement Reports (FMRs) would be developed to suit the Project and producedwithin three
months of Project effectiveness. The Financial Management Manual encompasses all levels of Project
financial management, procurement and administration Itincludes accounting system and internal
controlmechanisms includinginformationflow and flow of documents, chart of accounts, organization
and staffing for both operations and financial management functions, procurement procedures,
procedures for cash and asset management, budgeting, accounting and auditing policies and procedures
usedfor the Project, auditing arrangements, and terms of reference of auditors. Inaddition a Procedures
Manual will be prepared to assist the P M Ustaff with the use of the computerized accounting system.

Internal Controls. The internal control starts with clearly written administrative, accounting and
operational procedures that define levels of authority and responsibilities, ensure an orderly and efficient
procurement and payment process, and properly record and safeguard Project related assets and
resources. Specifically, this includes:
.. a budgeting system with regular monitoring of financial performance;
.  a process to identify and track sources of Project financing, including the flow of funds and the
   timingof such flows (whether direct to the Project or through government entities);

.. a suitable authorization process for award of contracts and purchase of equipment and supplies,
   including documentation procedures, which are incompliance with IDA policies;
   an appropriate segregation of duties and responsibilities, including invoice processing, accounting
   duties and payment functions;
   the design and use of standard forms for recording and controlling financial transactions;
   a manual of accountingpolicies and procedures, which addressesall aspects of financial management,
   including staffing arrangements and responsibilities, the flow of funds and funds management,
   internal controlprocedures, the accounting system and software used, reportingformats and
   procedures, and storage of financial documents; and
   arrangements for storing Projects documents and restricting access to authorized personnel only.

2. Audit Arrangements

Project accounts will be audited on an annual basis in accordance with international auditing standards
by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA. The auditor's report will be made available to the IDA
within six months of the close of the fiscal year for the annual audit. The audit will include a separate



                                                    -61  -

opinion on the SOE, FMRs and the SpecialAccount. The first audit (for the financial year 2003) would
include a review and commentary on the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of 2003's
financial statements. A qualified, independent external auditor, acceptable to the IDA, shall be retained
by February 28, 2004. The annual audits will be fundedfrom the proceeds of the Credit.

3. DisbursementArrangements


Disbursements under the credit will be made on a transactional basis, usingSOEs. Supporting
documents will be maintainedby the PMU, and made available to IDA'Ssupervision missions and
auditors as required. The Project Accountant will also prepare and provide to IDA quarterly F M R s in
formats agreed with IDA and these reports will also be integratedinto the semi-annual progress reports
for the Project. The Financial Management Reports (FMRs) will be used for monitoring purposes.

Financial Reporting. The implementing unit will coordinate the Project activities: it would be
responsible for consolidating and processing all reimbursement claims, as well as the submission of
quarterly FMRs. The Project Accountant would be responsible for producing a full range of financial
statements andreports, including sources and uses of funds, balance sheets and cash flow statements. In
addition, a full set of quarterly FMRs, as listedbelow, using accrual model will be generated from the
computerizedaccounting system for the quarter beginningDecember 2003, and will be submitted to IDA
quarterly.

    Sources and application of funds (by components and expenditures categories) andkey physical
parameters and unitrates for selected key items:
..  Expenditures by disbursement categories (Goods and Works, Consultant's Services): and
    Procurement process monitoring (Goods and Works: Consultant's Services). The formats of these
reports would be agreed upon with IDA and would be incorporated in the OM.

Quarterly FMRs should correspond with the annual financial statements that will be audited and
submitted to IDA. In addition, monthly bank reconciliation statements for the Special Accounts would
be prepared.

Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

The proposed Credit of US$10.94 million will be disbursed over a period of five years. The Project is
expected to be completedby September 30, 2008, and close on March 31, 2009. The allocation of Credit
proceeds accordingto each categories i s shown inTable C. Retroactive financing will be available for
eligible expenditures in all categories (except civil works) incurred after February 3,2003, up to a
maximum amount of US$250,000.

                                  Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

          ExpenditureCategory                I Amount  in US$million   I        Financing Percentage            1
civilWorks                                              5.84                             84%
Goods                                                   1.33             100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
                                                                        local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                           95% of other local expenditures for
                                                                              other items procured locally
Consultant Services                                     2.53             100% of firms, and 90% of individuals
Training and Workshops                                  0.51                             100%



                                                    - 62 -

l~ncrementalODeratinrr Costs                 I         0.21           I                100%               I
 Unallocated                                           0.52

 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing              10.94

 Total                                                10.94



 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):

Disbursement will be fully documented for: (i) civil works contracts regardless of value; (ii) goods
                                                all                                            all
contracts valued greater than and equal to US$lOO,OOO; (iii)consultant contracts valued greater than and
equal to US$lOO,OOO for consulting finns; and (iv) individual consultant contracts valued greater than
and equal to US$50,000. Disbursement for all other expenditures, including training and workshops and
incremental operating costs, will be disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOE), with supporting
documentation retained in the P W Office inMinistry of Health and made available for IDA review
duringsupervision. SOEs will be subject to an annual audit.

 Special account:


The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) inUS Currency at the National Reserve
Bank of Tonga or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, which i s capable of providing
efficient payment and clearing facilities. The SpecialAccount will have an allocation of US$720,000.
The initial deposit would be US$360,000 untildisbursed and committed amounts aggregate
SDR3,000,000. The Treasury will submit applications for replenishment of the Special Account on a
monthly basis, or when the account i s drawn down by 50 percent of the Special Account balance,
whichever occurs first. In addition, Treasury will maintain originals and the PMUwill retain copies of
relevant supportingdocuments against which applications for disbursement are prepared. The Special
Account will be audited yearly. Inaddition, the Borrower will open a Local Project Account in the
National Reserve Bank of Tonga, for depositing the Kingdom of Tonga's counterpart financing
contributions for the Project. These amounts would be used only for the purposes of the Project to cover
the counterpart funds for the Project.




                                                  - 63 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                       TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT


Project Schedule                                          Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              10                            8
First Bank mission (identification)                     02/09/2002                    04/09/2002
Appraisal mission departure                             06/28/2003                    04/22/2003
Negotiations                                            07/10/2003                    05/13/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           11/01/2003


Prepared by:
Ministry of Health, Kingdomof Tonga Preparation Team


Preparation assistance:
Project BB $210,224; PHRD TF051361 $145,450; TF051646 $203850; Pacific Facility TF 022487
$27,869; Japan CTF TF 030386 $15,332.

Bankstaff who worked on the project included:
I        Name                                         Specialit
Rekha Menon                             Task Team Leader, Senior Economist
Peyvand Khaleghian                      Public Health Specialist
Carol Ball                              Senior Operations Officer (PAS)
Josephine Masanque                      Senior Financial Analyst
Vincent Turbat                          Senior HealthEconomist
Natasha Beschomer                       Country ProgramCoordinator/Health Information Specialist
Juliana Williams                        ProgramAssistant
Patricia Miranda                        Legal Counsel
HungKimPhung                            Senior Finance Officer
Christopher Walker                      Peer Reviewer
BehdadNorwoozi                          Senior Financial Management Specialist

External Peer Reviewer:

Girindre K.Beeharry

Consultants who worked on the preparationof this project:

A.K. NandaKumar (Health Financing Specialist)
Vasilios Demetriou (ArchitectProject Implementation Specialist)
Alfred Picardi (Health Care Waste Management Specialist)
Valerie Evans (Household Survey Specialist)
Lindsay Sales (Health Planning Specialist)
Lynleigh Evans (Health Management Specialist)
Brian Yates (Social Assessment Specialist)
DennisStreveler (Health InformationSystems Specialist)


                                                - 64 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File"
                        TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
"Project Implementation Plan, Kingdomof Tonga Health Sector Support Project", Government of the
Kingdom of Tonga, May, 2003

B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Pacific Islands Stakeholder Participation inDevelopment, Tonga" Kerry E.James, Pacific Island
Discussion Paper Series, World Bank
Aide Memoire for Reconnaisance Mission, June 2001
Aide Memoire for IdentificationMission, April, 2002
Aide Memoire for Preparation Mission, December 2002
Aide Memoire for Pre-Appraisal Mission, January 2003

C. Other
"Health Care Waste Management Feasibility Study", Alfred Picardi, March 3, 2002
"Asbestos Survey Report" Alfred Picardi, November 31,2002
"Vaiola Hospital NukuAlofa Tongatapu: Masterplan Resolution of PreferredOption" Roger Carthey &
Annette Schmiede, February 2002
"Review of Health InformationManagement inTonga" LynleighEvans, March 2003
"Social Assessment for Tonga Health Sector Support Project" EVS Environment Consultants, 2003
"Recurrent Cost Study for Vaiola Hospital" Lindsay Sales, November 2002
*Includingelectronic files




                                                - 65 -

                                        Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                    TONGA: HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                                                            11-Mar-2003
~~                                                                                                               Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                          andactual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
  ProjectID   FY   Purpose                                   iBRD        IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO75171      zoo2 TO-Cyclone EmergencyRecovery & Mgmt           0.00      5.85                       0.00     5.41        1.48     0.00

                                                     Total:    0.00       5.85                      0.00      5.41        I.4a     0.00




                                                               - 66 -

                                            TONGA
                                     STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        Jun30 - 2002
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                       Disbursed
                                                     IFC                             IFC
FY Approval   Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic


                     Total Portfolio:          0.00    0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval   Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi   Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00




                                             - 67 -

 Child          on (% of childrenunder5)                            12     11          Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (%                     100       74     80
 Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 1%)
 Grossprimaryenrollment ("A ofschool-
     Male                                                                                  Lower-middle-incomegroup



                                                 1981    1991    2000    2001
                                                                                 Economicratios.
 GDP (US$ billions)
 Gross domestic investmenffGDP                    296     173
 Exports Of goodsand services/GDP                 254     198                                      Trade

 Gross domesticsavingdGDP
 Gross nationalsavingdGDP

                                                                                 Domestic
                                                                                            l-~-,              Investment
                                                                                 savings
Total debtfGDP
Total debt service/exports                                                                           1
Presentvalue of debffGDP
Presentvalue of debtfexports
                                                                                                 Indebtedness

(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      2 0       2 4     6 1                       ->  `*Tonga
GDP percapita                             1 9      1 9     5 5                             Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services


                                                 1981    1991    2000    2001
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growthof investment and GDP(%)

Agriculture                                       39.1    36.9   28.5            8 T

Industry                                          12.9    12.4    15.1
   Manufacturing                                  4.8     5.3      5.5
Services                                          48.0   50.7    56.4

Privateconsumption                                98.3    95.8              ..  .21 s's          97   98    99  00   01
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      14.0   20.4
Imports of goods and services                    67.2                                     -wmGDI          *GDP
                                                         53.3

                                               1981-91 1991-01   2000    2001
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                       0.7     0.4      9.0
Industry                                          1.4     6.0      7.0
  ManUfaCturing                                   2.4     3.8      8.4
Services                                          2.2     3.3     4.7

Privateconsumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
Gross domesticinvestment
Importsof goods andservices

Note:2001 data are preiiminaryestimates           .                -  .  -
                                            1 .       ,




                                                              - 68 -

                                                                                                                            Tonpa
                                           ____                ____
                                        ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                            1981     1991       2000    2001
Domesticprices                                                                    Inflation(%)                                     1
(77 change)                                                                     10

Consumerprices                               14.8    10.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                                 10.1         3.7    2.9      5


Governmentfinance                                                                 0
ph of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                   1
Current revenue                                                                   5       96      97       98    99       O0     O'

Current budgetbalance                                                         I            --GDP        deflator - 0 I C P I       I
Overall surplusideficit

TRADE
                                            1981     1991       2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                    Export and importlevels(US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                    13
  Squash                                                                        lZ5 T
                                                                                100
  Fish
  Manufactures                                                                    75
Total imports (cif)                                    63                         50
  Food
  Fueland energy                                                                  25

  Capitalgoods                                                                     0
                                                                                             96                          00    01
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                                   I         95          97      98   99

import price index (1995=100)                                                                EB Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=700)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                            1981     1991       2000    2001
(US$miiiions)                                                                     Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)                 I
Exportsof goodsand services                    16      32         29     27
imports of goods and services                 42       75         79      80
Resourcebalance                               -26     -43         -50    -53

Net income                                     4        4          -1     -1
Net current transfers                          15      37         41      42

Currentaccount balance                         -a      -2         -10    -12

Financingitems (net)                           7        1
Changes in net reserves                        0        1

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (Us$mi//iOnS)                   32          16     12
Conversionrate (DEC,lcdAJS$)                  0.9      1.3        1.6    2.0


EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                                             I                                                     I
                                           1981      1991       2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                                     Compositionof 2001 debt(US$ miil.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed            21       45         66      63
  iBRD                                         0        0           0      0                          G : l ~ : 4
  IDA                                          0        3           4      4

Total debt service                             0        2           4      2
  IBRD                                         0        0           0      0
  iDA                                          0        0           0      0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                              8        7           7
  Official creditors                           2        1           3      1
  Privatecreditors                             0        0          -1      0
  Foreigndirect investment                     0        0          2
  Portfolioequity                              0        0           0                                           D 45

World Bankprogram                                                                                                                  I
  Commitments                                  0        0           0      0      A IBRD
                                                                                   -                                   E Bilateral
                                                                                                                        -
  Disbursements                                0        1           0      0      B IDA
                                                                                   -         D Other multilateral
                                                                                                .                      F Private
                                                                                                                        -
  Principalrepayments                          0        0           0      0    , C - IMF                              G -Short-term
  Net flows                                    0        1           0      0
  interestpayments                             0        0           0      0
  Net transfers                                0        1           0      0

more: Inismolewas proauceatrom me uevelopmenttconomics centralaaraoase.




                                                            - 69 -

                   Additional Annex 11 Summary of Environmental Reviews
                        TONGA: HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORTPROJECT

The Tonga Health Sector Support Project has been classified in accordance with OP 4.01as category B,
requiringfocused environmental review. A summary of the environmental review documents prepared i s
provided below. The complete HealthCare Waste Management Feasibility Study and Asbestos Survey
Reports can be found in the project file. The Health Care Waste Management Feasibility Study and
Asbestos Survey Report were disclosed incountryon March 20,2003.

 1.      A component of the project will support the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospitalinfrastructure and
facilities, to overcome identifiedmajor deficiencies, improve the functional relationships and overall
operational efficiency of the hospital, and enhance the hospital's capacity to efficiently meet its future
service obligations. These developments will be guided by a master plan for the hospital, which i s being
prepared duringproject preparation.

2.       The latest available preferred options paper for the hospital renovation calls for a phased
demolition and construction program, wherein one or more buildingsi s demolished in the first phase,
with demolition and construction talung place on site simultaneously in subsequent phases. The health
care services of Vaiola Hospital will continue on site throughout the demolitionkonstructionproject
within the balance of the buildings,moving into new construction as it becomes available.

3.       Environmental issues associated with the Tonga Health Sector Support Project were identifiedas
follows:

(a)      Healthcare wastes: Wastes fromhealthcare facilities are of concern to human health and the
environment. A large fraction of healthcare wastes are similar to household wastes, while the remainder
of these wastes may contain potentially harmful microorganisms which can infect hospital patients,
health care employees, patients' visitors, and the general public. Inaddition, usedneedles, syringes and
other sharps present risks of injury and infection (such as Hepatitis B and C, and HIV) for health care
employees. Inaddition, hazards associated with handling or scavenging of health care wastes at disposal
sites are of concern.

(b)      Asbestos, which may potentially be present, at thefacility to be demolished: Asbestos could
have harmful health effects if it becomes airborne. As asbestos fibers accumulate inthe lungs, several
types of diseases may occur. These include: asbestosis (scarring of the lungtissue), mesothelioma
(cancer of the plueral liningwhich i s almost always fatal) and lungcancer.

(c)      Disposal of demolition debris: Demolition debris should be managed, transported and disposed
of according to safe environmental practices.

(d)      Sanitary system of the hospital: Untreated liquidwastes fromhospitals and sewerage present
riskof surface water contamination and leachate fromimproperly treated and disposed health care
facility wastes my contaminate groundwater.


4.       Asbestos andDemolitionDebris: An Asbestos Survey has been conducted, and some small
quantities of non-friable asbestosmaterials found. Best practices for demolition of these materials (based
on US EPA guidance) have been drafted for inclusioninbiddingdocuments. Biddingdocuments will
also include hours-of-work, dust and noise limits, as well as stipulation for the environmentally
acceptable disposal of construction debris at available facilities. The supervising consultants will be
responsible for ensuring that these requirements are met.




                                                    - 70 -

 5.      HealthCare Waste and Sanitary Wastewater: A HealthCare Waste ManagementFeasibility
 Study has also been conducted. Environmentally sustainable waste management options acceptable to
WHO have beendelineatedand optimized. The need for a new package wastewater treatment systemhas
been identifiedand the system treatment requirements (World Bank Guidelines) operator training,
maintenance package and costs have been included in the Project Implementation Plan.

6.       InstitutionalStrengthening: A Terms of Reference for international technical assistancein
developing a Health Care Waste Management Policy and Health Care Waste Management Plan, as well
as M O Hstaff training in health care waste management has been drafted. The technical assistancewill
take place duringimplementation.

Asbestos Survey

7.       Asbestos i s a potential concern at Vaiola Hospital if it i s present ina hazardous form in the
hospitalbuildings that would be demolished. The environmental health concern is for patients remaining
on site during the renovation process, as well as the construction workers, and the general public in the
vicinity. "Friable" asbestos can be crumbled by hand and release fibers. Non-friable asbestos containing
materials are defined as those which cannot be crumbled by handand contain more than one percent
asbestos. Any friable asbestos should be removed prior to demolition activities, since the release of
asbestosfibers into the air poses unacceptable healthrisks. Asbestos can become hazardous if demolition
practices pulverize otherwise non-friable (will not crumble) asbestos materials.

8.       An inspection of the Vaiola Hospitalbuildings was made andpotential asbestoscontaining
materials in the facility were identified. Samples were taken by a CertifiedHazardous Materials Manager
and analyzed at a US EPA certifiedlaboratow. The potential Asbestos Containing Materials (ACM) at
the facility include resilient floor tiles, asbestos cement (Transite) roofing materials, and steampipe
insulation. The analysis results confirmedthe Transite roofing material i s 10%asbestos, and the floor
tiles are 2% asbestos. The steam pipe insulation was confirmed as mineral wool, with no asbestos
detected. Documentation of the sample analyses i s included in the Asbestos Survey Report in the project
file.

Environmental Management for Demolition

9.       Both the resilient floor tiles and the Transite roofing material are currently non-friable; that is,
they cannot be crumbled by hand. As such, they do not impose an environmental hazard if demolition
techniques are used that do not crush, crumble or abrade these materials in such a way as to release
asbestos fibers into the air. U.S. EPA regulations do not require removal of these materials prior to
demolition as long as the demolition techniques used do not lead to release o f asbestos fibers into the air.
Furthermore, these materials may be disposed as construction debris, again, as long as they are handled
in such a manner inthe disposalareaso as not to release asbestosfibers into the air frombeingcrushed
or abraded. The steam pipe insulation proved not to be Asbestos Containing Materials, and no special
removal techniques are required.

10.      Guidance for demolition techniques i s detailed in the Asbestos Survey Report and will be
included in the demolition and construction tender documents for the Vaiola Hospitalrenovation. The
principaloverall demolition restriction will be that no visible dust will be generated from the demolition
activities. Should demolition activities beginto generate visible airborne dust, the contractor(s) will
cease the activity(s) which generate the dust: (i)   untilthe dust is controlledwith means such as water
spray or (ii) another demolition technique which does not generate airborne dust i s substituted.



                                                      -71 -

 11.     Noise i s another concem because of the exposure scenario detailed above. The contractor
specifications will limit: (i) of work, and (ii) levels duringwork.
                              hours                   sound

Healthcare Wastes

 12.     Medical waste generatedby the Ministryof Health facilities will likely increase, inquantity and
variety. A hospital waste management system will be part of the redevelopment of the Vaiola hospital.
The feasibility study was undertaken as a step to minimize potential adverse human health and
environmental impacts of waste generatedby the hospital, and to recommend actions to establish an
environmentally sustainable healthcare waste management system. The Feasibility Study has:


 (i)     reviewed existing legislation andregulations relatedto health care waste management;
 (ii)    reviewed the waste handling practices at the hospital along with an estimation of different waste
types (general wastes, infectious wastes, sharps, etc.);
(iii)    reviewed the current disposal practices from the healthcare facility and potential impacts of these
practices on public health and the environment;
 (iv)    assessedthe institutional framework for healthcare waste management inTonga;
 (v)     recommended a cost-effective waste segregation, treatment, and disposal scheme (considering
alternative options) and in accordance with         WHO best management guidance; and,
(vi)     prepared an implementation plan for recommended activities (e.g. procurement of waste handling
materials and detailed staff training requirements).

13.      The healthcare waste management system for the hospital will be undertaken with the aid of
international technical assistance during project implementation. A Terms of Reference for intemational
technical assistancein developing a Health Care Waste Management Policy and a HealthCare Waste
Management Plan, as well as training of M O Hstaff in health care waste management has been drafted.
Duringproject implementationthe intemational technical assistancewill review healthcare waste
management legislation and regulations and prepare a package of recommendations for the Government
of Tonga, as part of the development of a HealthCare Waste Management Policy. The Health Care
Waste Management Plan to be developed will detail specific on-site waste management procedures and
staff responsibilities, as well as transport and disposal practices for all facilities underjurisdiction of the
MOH. Both the HealthCare Waste Management Policy and the HealthCare Waste Management Plan
will be developed in consultation with stakeholders, includingthe Ministryof Agriculture and Forestry,
Quarantine and Quality Management Division, Minister of Works & Disaster Relief Activities,
Environment and Marine, Department of Environment, andprivate clinics.

Sanitary System

14.      The need for a new package wastewater treatment system for Vaiola Hospital has been identified
and the system treatment requirements (World Bank Guidelines), operator training, maintenance package
and costs have been includedin the project implementation plan. The treatment plant will be installed
during project implementation. Operator training will be conductedby the treatment plant supplier, as
part of the installation contract, which will include regular refresher training. Provisions for sampling,
laboratory equipment, and maintenance supplies have beenincludedin the project implementation plan.
The necessary permits for the sanitary system for the hospital will be obtained prior to hospital
construction.




                                                     - 72 -

ExistingKingdomof Tonga Laws and Regulations

15.     Existing and planned laws and regulations related to sanitary sewage and health care waste
disposal were reviewed with the Minister and senior staff of the Ministry of Health as well as staff of the
Department of Environment. The only existing legislation or regulation concerning these issues i s the
Public Health Act of 1992.

16.     The Ministry of Health administers the Public HealthAct. The Act in a general way lays the
groundwork for environmental management. According to the Act, "Any person who creates or allows
the creation of dust, smoke, fumes, effluvia, effluent or noise which i s a nuisance or prejudicial to the
health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood or to the health of any personi s guilty of an offense," (Part
IISummaryOffenses,para.21). Therearenoregulationsatthistimewhichdefinewhatconstitutesa
nuisance or prejudice to health with which to enforce the Act.

17.     The Department of Environment has been newly created this year under the Minister of Works,
Environment and Marine. The Department i s still developing regulations and legislation. A bill
requiringEnvironmental Impact Assessment i s currently with the Law ReformCommittee. This bill i s
exptected to reach Cabinet next year.




                                                   - 73 -

- 74 -

