                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001055



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                     (IDA-3814)



                                        ON

                                     A CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION (US$10.94 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                        TO

                             THE KINGDOM OF TONGA

                                       FOR A



                      HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT



                                   January 7, 2010




Health, Nutrition and Population
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2009)

                          Currency Unit = Tonga Pa'anga (TOP)
                                  1US$ = TOP 1.9177
                                  1TOP = US$0.5215

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 ­ June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA      Analytic and Advisory Activity             MOH            Ministry of Health
AusAID   Australian Agency for International        NCD            Non -communicable Disease
         Development
CD       Communicable Disease                       NGO            Non-governmental Organization
CSSD     Central Sterile Supplies Department        NHA            National Health Account
DCA      Development Credit Agreement               NZAID          New Zealand Agency for
                                                                   International Development
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                     PAD            Project Appraisal Document
HIC      Health Information Center                  PDO            Project Development Objective
HIS      Hospital Information System                PHC            Primary Health Care
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results      PMU            Project Management Unit
         Report
ICU      Intensive Care Unit                        QEA7           Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment
IDA      International Development Association      QER            Quality Enhancement Review
IT       Information Technology                     SPC            Secretariat of the Pacific Community
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency     UNDP           United Nations Development
                                                                   Programme
MOF      Ministry of Finance                        WHO            World Health Organization




                                 Vice President: James W. Adams
                     Acting Country Director: Kanthan Shankar
                                Sector Director: Emmanuel Jimenez
                                Sector Manager: Juan Pablo Uribe
                         Project Team Leader: Bukhuti Shengelia
                               ICR Lead Author: Betty Hanan
                                      KINGDOM OF TONGA
                                    Health Sector Support Project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1.            Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................. 1
  2.            Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................. 4
  3.            Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................... 12
  4.            Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................... 18
  5.            Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance .................................... 18
  6.            Lessons learned ....................................................................................... 20
  7.            Comments Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 22
  Annex 1.      Project Costs and Financing .................................................................... 23
  Annex 2.      Outputs by Component............................................................................ 25
  Annex 3.      Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................... 35
  Annex 4.      Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....... 36
  Annex 5.      Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................... 37
  Annex 6.      Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................. 38
  Annex 7.      Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............... 39
  Annex 8.      List of Supporting Documents................................................................. 54

  MAP IBRD 33498
A. Basic Information
Country:                Tonga                   Project Name:             Health Sector Support
Project ID:             P075230                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38140
ICR Date:               01/20/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TONGA
Original Total
                        XDR 8.0M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 7.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 7.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/25/2002     Effectiveness:                               02/23/2004
Appraisal:            04/18/2003     Restructuring(s):                            03/31/2008
Approval:             07/24/2003     Mid-term Review:           07/31/2006        06/26/2006
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2009        07/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry        Moderately
                           No
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):                  Unsatisfactory
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     3                      3
Compulsory health finance                                             7                      7
Health                                                                90                    90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                             50                    50
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                25                    25
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  25                    25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Kanthan Shankar                      Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:            Juan Pablo Uribe                     Fadia M. Saadah
Project Team Leader:       Bukhuti Shengelia                    Rekha Menon
ICR Team Leader:           Betty Hanan
ICR Primary Author:        Betty Hanan
                           Amber Willink


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Kingdom of Tonga in improving the
performance of its health sector by supporting selected reforms to said health sector,
including: (i) the development and implementation of appropriate health financing
policies, and health information systems; and (ii) the improvement of the administrative,
functional and technical quality of health facilities.


                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of MOH revenue funded by the government
Value
quantitative or   98%                    92%                               98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/30/2004                 03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments        Due to the delay in implementation of the new user fees schedule, there was
(incl. %        insufficient time to measure the percentage reduction of MOH revenue as a
achievement)    result of this new policy.
                MOH expenditure on primary and secondary prevention of NCDs as a percentage
Indicator 2 :
                of total MOH expenditure
                                           2.2% (it was
                                           decided to set
                                           target in relation to
                                           primary prevention
                                           only, because
Value
                                           technically it is
quantitative or 1.2%                                                         1.6%
                                           impossible to
Qualitative)
                                           separate
                                           secondary
                                           prevention to
                                           expenditure on
                                           drugs)
Date achieved 06/30/2004                   03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments        The expected infusion of funding by the Health Promotion Foundation for NCDs
(incl. %        would see the percentage contribution for primary prevention move towards the
achievement) original target set for this Project.
Indicator 3 : Bed occupancy rate at Vaiola Hospital
Value
quantitative or 40%                        60%                               70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/24/2003                   03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The end of project figures were provided during the ICR mission.
achievement)
                Percentage of patients entitled to fee exemptions who receive fee exemptions at
Indicator 4 :
                public health facilities
Value
quantitative or Not applicable             80%                               Not Available
Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved 09/24/2003               03/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments
              Not enough time has elapsed since the introduction of new user fees to measure
(incl. %
              how well the exemptions have worked.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                    approval                       Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                  documents)                       Target Years
                  Sustainable capacity to prepare future biennial reports on sources and uses of
Indicator 1 :     funds in the sector established and preferred health financing option piloted and
                  evaluated.
                                                                                Capacity to
                                              Capacity to
Value                                                                           undertake NHAs
                  No NHA reports had been undertake NHAs
(quantitative                                                                   was developed and
                  done prior to project.      will be
or Qualitative)                                                                 has been
                                              institutionalized.
                                                                                institutionalized.
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments          3 NHA reports have been developed and the fourth one is under preparation.
(incl. %          Two were developed with technical assistance and the third and fourth with the
achievement)      Tongan NHA team leading the process.
                  Ministry-wide policies and procedures on health information reviewed, revised,
Indicator 2 :     and being implemented and hospital information system (HIS) procured,
                  installed, and operational
                                                                                Targets have been
                  Initial work on                                               achieved- all
                                              All policies and
Value             identifying information                                       policies and
                                              procedures
(quantitative     systems needs undertaken                                      procedures have
                                              reviewed and HIS
or Qualitative)   in earlier project funded                                     been reviewed and
                                              operational.
                  by AusAID.                                                    the HIS is
                                                                                operational.
Date achieved     10/31/2005                  03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments          Substantial consultation was done as part of the establishment of the HIS.
(incl. %          Policies and procedures were reviewed and staff trained to support the
achievement)      operationalization of the HIS.
Indicator 3 :     Hospital Maintenance Plan including indicators developed and implemented.
                                              The                               Hospital
Value
                  A Hospital Maintenance institutionalization                   Maintenance Plan
(quantitative
                  Plan not developed.         of the Hospital                   developed and
or Qualitative)
                                              Maintenance Plan.                 institutionalized.
Date achieved     10/31/2005                  03/31/2009                        07/31/2009
Comments
                  Revisions have been made in the MOH budget to allow for future maintenance
(incl. %
                  requirements.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Hospital Waste Management Plan developed and partially implemented.
Value             Hospital Waste         Sustainable                       The Health Care



                                                 iv
(quantitative   Management Plan not        implementation of                   Waste Management
or Qualitative) developed.                 the Hospital Waste                  Policy and
                                           Management Plan.                    Regulations and the
                                                                               Hospital Waste
                                                                               Management Plan
                                                                               were completed and
                                                                               became operational
                                                                               in February 2006.
Date achieved 10/31/2005                    03/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments        Sustainability of recently implemented Hospital Waste Management Plan
(incl. %        appears to be secured by the institutionalization of the Plan through ongoing
achievement) training of health staff and procurement of necessary goods.
Indicator 5 : Agreed hospital construction & refurbishment packages completed.
                                            Packages A, B1
                                                                               Packages A, B1 and
                                            (JICA-funded),
Value                                                                          B2 completed to
                Planning for new hospital and B2 completed
(quantitative                                                                  acceptable quality
                needs under way.            to acceptable
or Qualitative)                                                                standards and in
                                            quality standards
                                                                               full use.
                                            and in full use.
Date achieved 10/31/2005                    03/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Remaining packages of hospital construction to be completed by JICA.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/19/2003      Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     06/09/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.10
  3     06/25/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.12
  4     12/02/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.51
  5     05/19/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.64
  6     01/23/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     4.04
  7     01/16/2007         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     5.91
  8     07/26/2007         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     7.03
  9     12/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              9.64
 10     07/23/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            10.11
 11     03/17/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            10.59


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring        Board       ISR Ratings at  Amount             Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)          Approved     Restructuring Disbursed at            Key Changes Made




                                                 v
               PDO Change              Restructuring
                            DO   IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                       Schedule 6 of the DCA was
                                                       amended to revise the PDO
  03/31/2008       N        MS   MS         10.00
                                                       indicators as per
                                                       recommendations of the MTR




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

        The Health Sector Support Project was approved on July 24, 2003. The
International Development Association (IDA) Credit was signed on September 24, 2003 and
it became effective on February 23, 2004.

1.1    Context at Appraisal

         At the time of appraisal, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Human Development Index ranked the Kingdom of Tonga as sixth among the fourteen
Pacific Islands States and as 107 globally. The Kingdom of Tonga (herein referred to as
Tonga) had a population of 100,670, with a high literacy rate of 99% and a Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) per capita of over US$1,500. However, the fiscal situation was deteriorating
at the time, with real GDP growth declining to around 0.8% in 2001/2002 after having risen
to around 5.9% in 1999/2000. Although poverty was not considered a problem, Tonga's
Human Poverty Index was low at 5.2. Tonga was and continues to be vulnerable to external
economic shocks and natural disasters, which threaten the sustainability of livelihood.
Urbanization was increasing at the time of appraisal; this trend has continued in the past
years. In 1986, approximately two-thirds of the population on the main island, Tongatapu,
lived in the capital Nuku'alofa.

        Tonga had achieved remarkable improvements in the health status of its
population since the 1980s. Infant mortality rate had decreased from approximately 30 per
1,000 live births in 1980 to 13 per 1,000 live births in 2000. Life expectancy in 2003 was
69.8 years for males and 71.8 years for females, among the highest in the Pacific.
Communicable diseases (CDs) were mostly under control except for intermittent typhoid
outbreaks thought to be associated with chronic carriers. Non-communicable diseases
(NCDs), especially diabetes and cardiovascular disease, were recognized as the major health
problems and accounted for the majority of death as well as the largest financial burden to
the health system; this is still the case today. According to the World Health Organization
(WHO), in 2002 the prevalence of type 2 diabetes among men and women above age 40 was
14.3% and 20% respectively. Cardiovascular diseases in 2004 were responsible for 30% of
total deaths.

        Tonga's epidemiological transition was facilitated by concerted efforts to extend the
availability of water and sanitation throughout the country, as well as income gains with
associated improvements in nutritional status, investments in education, strong emphasis on
immunization, and effective control of infectious and parasitic diseases. More than 60% of
the population had access to sanitary waste disposal facilities in rural areas and 80% in urban
areas; water quality in most areas was considered to meet international standards.
Immunization coverage rates were high as a result of quarterly campaigns and routine service
delivery through Maternal and Child Health clinics. Adequate nutritional intake was a
function of reasonably high incomes and Tonga's own agricultural productivity. Nutritional
issues in Tonga related then and today to over-nutrition and its consequences, e.g. obesity,
diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases, etc.

                                              1
       With around 8% of its GDP allocated to health, Tonga spent more on health as a
percentage of GDP than most of its neighboring countries. The health sector has traditionally
enjoyed high priority in terms of the share of the government's budget. In 2003,
approximately 19% of the total government's budget was spent on health. The health sector
has been financed mostly from public sources with private expenditures accounting only for
12.2% of total health expenditures in 2003.

         Notwithstanding the improvements in health outcomes and prioritization of
health in the government spending, Tonga's health system faced a number of serious
challenges; the most prominent were: (i) inefficient and unsustainable health financing
system focusing mostly on curative care and relying largely on the State budget and external
aid; (ii) lack of an evidence-base for planning; (iii) weak and outdated health service delivery
infrastructure, especially on the main island, incapable of providing adequate quality
inpatient and outpatient care; (iv) rising burden of NCDs and inadequate management of risk
at the community level; and (v) inadequate health information systems and lack of culture of
using information for decision making.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

        The objective of the Project was to assist Tonga in improving the performance of its
health sector by supporting selected reforms to said health sector, including the: (i)
development and implementation of appropriate health financing policies, and health
information systems; and (ii) improvement of the administrative, functional and technical
quality of health facilities.

        Progress towards this objective was to be measured and monitored based on the
following key indicators: (i) increased percentage of the Ministry of Health (MOH) revenues
derived from non-government sources, (ii) increased percentage of the MOH budget
allocated to primary and preventive care, (iii) increased bed-occupancy rate by ward, reduced
average length of stay in selected wards and increased bed turnover rate in Vaiola Hospital
(Tonga's largest and only tertiary referral hospital), (iv) increased proportion of patients
diagnosed with diabetes or hypertension who visit the health system to receive secondary
prevention on at least two occasions per year, and (v) improved waste management and
hospital maintenance.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

        The PDO were not revised. The Indicators were amended on March 31, 2008 to
reflect the comments made by the Quality Enhancement Review (QER) and the findings of
the Mid-term Review.




                                               2
1.4    Main Benefits and Beneficiaries

        The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) noted two major benefits: (i) improvements
in the quality of affordable health services for the whole Tonga population, including women
and vulnerable groups, and (ii) increased technical and human resources capacity of the
MOH. The redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital was to improve the quality of care and
respond to public concerns about poor amenities. It was expected that a new and better
working environment would motivate the hospital staff and facilitate change in clinical and
administrative practices/processes aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
health services and satisfaction of patients. The improvement of MOH's capacity to generate
reliable statistics, and timely collect and analyze health information was expected to make
the health sector more responsive to the population's health needs. The MOH was also to
benefit from the improved capacity in health sector planning, budgeting, and policy making.
The Project's activities targeted at the community level management of NCDs were to
improve the access to and quality of care for diabetic patients to make such care more
efficient.

1.5    Original Components

       The Project had four components:

        Component A - Strengthening Health Care Financing (US$0.70 million or 6% of
total Project costs). This component supported the review, development and implementation
of policies which defined the funding and overall allocation of resources to health services.
In particular, it strengthened the capacity of the MOH to: (i) plan resource needs for the
health sector, (ii) finance primary health care and preventive services, and (iii) develop
options to finance health services and pilot and evaluate the preferred option before full
implementation. These were to be achieved through technical support, training, studies, and
extensive consultation with stakeholders and beneficiaries.

        Component B ­ Improving Health Information Management (US$1.25 million or
10% of total Project costs). This component comprised of three sub-components: (i)
strengthening the information culture, (ii) developing and implementing a Hospital
Information System (HIS) at Vaiola Hospital, and (iii) developing information management
for NCD prevention and control.

        Component C ­ Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital (US$9.56 million or 77%
of total Project costs). The component supported improvement of the administrative,
technical and functional efficiency of the Vaiola Hospital by investing in infrastructure
redevelopment and management strengthening. It focused on three areas: (i) redevelopment
of the hospital, (ii) improving hospital management, and (iii) developing a health care waste
management system.

        Component D ­ Project Management and Coordination (US$0.87 million or 7% of
total Project costs). The component included the operations of the Project Management Unit
(PMU), which provided Project support functions, including day-to-day management,

                                             3
monitoring, and coordination of Project activities among implementing units, procurement,
accounting, disbursement and financial management, and liaising with and reporting to the
Project Director.

1.6    Revised Components

       The original Project components were not revised.

1.7    Other significant changes

      The PDOs and components did not change. The Indicators in the PAD and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were amended on March 31, 2008 (See also Section
1.3).

        The closing date was extended twice for a total of 4 months: (i) from March 31, 2009
to June 30, 2009 and (ii) from June 30, 2009 to July 31, 2009. The first extension was
granted to allow for effective completion of remaining activities. The latter extension was
agreed upon to allow time for the Government to utilize residual funds that became available
due to currency fluctuations and benefit from the amendment to the DCA for retroactively
increasing the percentage of financing for civil works.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

       The Project did not encounter factors that had a significant impact on its
implementation and outcomes. During the period of the Project, Tonga did experience two
substantial economic challenges that could have affected the health sector. These were
budget constraints as a result of the relatively low GDP growth and the fiscal impact of the
2006 civil service wage settlement, which forced a reallocation of recurrent expenditures
towards salaries at the expense of operating costs. Despite these factors, the Government in
general, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in particular, continued to recognize the
importance of the health sector and allocations of resources to the sector were not reduced
during the Project implementation period. Moreover, the health sector was largely exempted
from the redundancy program in 2006-07 to protect its capacity to deliver essential services.
In fact, budget allocations for recurrent costs for the Vaiola Hospital were gradually
increased during the implementation period to reach the target of almost 7% established
under the Project.

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

         The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team rates design and
quality at entry as Moderately Satisfactory, which is in line with the endorsement of the
Project design by QER in March 2003. In the opinion of the ICR team, the Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating by the Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7) reflected mainly
shortcomings in the documentation and presentation rather than the quality of the design
itself. The ICR team echoes the observations made by the QER which highlight the "good
choices" made by the Project Team regarding the appropriateness of the Project's design
concept to Tonga's health sector and its synergies with ongoing activities by other

                                             4
Development Partners. In addition, the ICR team finds that the Project design was
appropriate for two main reasons.

        First, the Vaiola Hospital was critical for overall service delivery. The Vaiola
Hospital was, and continues to be, the cornerstone of Tonga's public health system,
responsible for providing a full range of inpatient and outpatient services, including primary
and secondary prevention of CDs and NCDs. Its physical layout and technological base were
poorly suited to its greatly expanded role as an outpatient facility serving a rapidly growing
urban population. Several wards, including the emergency, outpatient, pharmacy and
radiology departments were cramped, which impeded their operations. Outpatients were
forced to share limited space with inpatients.

       In explaining the rationale for supporting the redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital,
the PAD emphasized that there were no primary curative services in Nuku'alofa other than
the Vaiola Hospital outpatient clinic, which served the primary curative needs of 47,000
residents of the capital. At the time, this reflected approximately one-half of Tonga's total
population and two-thirds of the population of Tongatapu Island group.

        Second, the Project design recognized that sustainable improvements in health sector
performance required strong emphasis on health financing reforms in addition to investments
in infrastructure. The Project included important components on health financing and
development of a health information system to complement improvements in physical
infrastructure. In addition, the Project enjoyed high ownership by the Government and the
Project design was endorsed by the Cabinet prior to appraisal. A Steering Committee,
composed of several stakeholders, had been appointed to oversee project implementation and
there was a good continuity between the preparation and implementation phases partly due to
strong participatory leadership of the Project Director in both phases.

        While the QER endorsed the Project design, the recommendations articulated in the
QER were not fully reflected in the PAD as a result of the limited time between the QER and
negotiations. The areas highlighted in the QER as requiring further development were: (i)
better clarifying the links between the impact of the upgrading of the hospital and the range
of services to be provided, (ii) clarifying the staffing strategy to complement the hospital
upgrading, especially with regard to the critical global shortage of skilled nurses, (iii)
recurrent cost implications of the Project investments, especially the hospital, and (iv)
management issues, especially related to hospital administration.

        Although the PAD did emphasize the importance of NCDs in the country, especially
diabetes and hypertension, the reasoning could have benefited from presenting a clearer
picture of the strategy pursued by the Government, the Project or other Development Partners
to improve the situation. The PAD left the reader with the wrong impression that hospital
construction was pursued at the great expense of NCDs. The PAD could have explained
better the advantages of this infrastructure development for NCD prevention and
management. For example, the outpatient clinic of the Vaiola hospital would provide
treatment for NCDs to a large catchment area and would act as the hub for NCD surveillance
and management for the radial community health clinics

                                              5
       The formulation of Project Development Objective (PDO) and its indicators could have
been more precise and narrowly focused for their better attribution to the Project design.
There was a minor inconsistency in the wording of the PDO between the body of the PAD and
the PAD annex on Results Monitoring. From the appraisal documentation, it was not clear how
the outcome indicators would be able to measure the attainment of the PDO, nor was clear
how the Project inputs would result in attainment of the stated objective.

        As a consequence of the time constraints and inability to adequately address the
comments from the QER within the PAD, a Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7),
conducted in August 2005, rated the Project Moderately Unsatisfactory. Some of the
commentary in the QEA7 could have been prevented with the provision of more detailed
Project documentation and clearer articulation of assumptions and conceptual underpinnings
on which the Project design was premised. The quality limitation of economic and financial
analysis highlighted by QEA7 was addressed later at the Mid-Term Review when the
economic analysis was revised.

        While the ICR team acknowledges the concerns raised by the QEA7, it is felt that the
overall conceptualization of this Project was appropriate to the health needs of the population
and the overall health sector context in Tonga. The satisfactory outcomes that the project
achieved speak for this overall, satisfactory design that nonetheless would have had
improvement opportunities.

        Safeguards. The Project components and activities were designed explicitly to deal
with potential environmental concerns including: (i) demolition of existing buildings, (ii)
movement of workers, equipment and materials within the hospital site, and (iii) disposal of
debris.

         Risk Assessment. The risk assessment assumptions made at appraisal reflected a
good understanding of operating in an environment of limited institutional capacity and the
ratings recognized this accordingly. In general, adequate mitigation measures were identified
and successfully applied. The Moderate rating of the risk related to the local human resource
capacity for project management was rather underestimated. The mitigation assumptions
that: (i) new positions will be minimized, and (ii) that consultants will be engaged to manage
the health financing component were optimistic given human resource constraints in the
country and in the health sector in particular. However, both ratings were raised during the
Mid-Term Review, at which time four additional risks were identified.

       Provision was made for considerable technical assistance, on-the job training,
external training, workshops, research and policy formulation at all levels to create and
underpin internal dialogue on the best way forward. Training funded by the Project to
provide guidance in the implementation of activities assisted sustainability and capacity
development. Adequate attention was given to preempt possible environmental issues during
preparation and implementation.




                                              6
2.2    Implementation

        The ICR mission rates implementation Satisfactory. The Project was implemented
according to plan. The Project successfully delivered all the planned outputs under the four
components and achieved the expected outcomes (see details in Annex 2 ­ Outputs by
Component). Some policy actions (e.g. introduction of user fee policy), which were
supported by the Project, did experience moderate delays due to political factors, however
the delays did not significantly affect the Project outcomes. The Project maintained good
disbursement rates throughout its implementation. Even though this was the first Bank-
financed Project in the health sector and the MOH did not have prior experience in
implementing projects of such complexity and scope, the Project was managed well and
demonstrated consistently good performance. The Project rating was Satisfactory for
Implementation Progress and Progress towards achievement of development objectives for
most of the implementation period apart from 2008-09 when it was rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The good performance of the Project reflects the strong leadership by MOH in
guiding the Project from its inception to implementation and effective supervision and
guidance from the World Bank Task Team. In addition, the effective coordination efforts by
the PMU in all aspects of project management were crucial to ensuring effective completion
of activities.

        Challenges in project implementation included: (i) improving estimates of
expenditure on NCD prevention, (ii) implementation of the community-based diabetes pilot
program, and (iii) funding of maintenance costs for the Vaiola Hospital. These challenges
were met with innovative solutions as a result of the resourcefulness and dedication of the
MOH, World Bank Task Team and PMU. A fourth challenge which continues relates to
setting resource allocation targets for primary and secondary prevention of NCDs. Current
estimates are made on the basis of the NCD share in MOH's budget for prevention and
public health programs. The problem with this estimation is that only primary prevention
and non-personal (population-based) preventive and health promotion expenditures are
captured. Secondary prevention, due to the fact that it requires drug therapy and monitoring
by a health professional, is captured under the outpatient care category and cannot be
separated from the other types of curative services/care received in the outpatient setting.
The health information system and the procedures for recording outpatient care visits do not
allow the breakdown of outpatient care visits by disease category and the content and type of
services received. An important positive development, however, has been the recent
approval by Parliament of amendments to the Public Health Act, which contains important
revision of communicable and NCD reporting requirements. The new reporting will improve
the accuracy of statistics.

        In terms of the Component A ­ Strengthening Health Care Financing, all planned
outputs were completed satisfactorily and the most of the expected outcomes realized, albeit
with varying degrees of timeliness. The Project has been successful in the development,
implementation and institutionalization of a system of National Health Accounts (NHAs).
The first two rounds of NHAs were developed with foreign technical assistance. This was
accompanied with knowledge and skills transfer to the NHA Unit in the MOH. From the
third round, the NHA Unit took leadership of the exercise, reaching an important milestone

                                             7
towards the institutionalization of NHAs. The component has improved capacity within the
MOH to integrate findings of the NHAs in the planning process and to utilize its framework
in estimating expenditures and allocating resources. Tonga was the second Pacific country to
implement NHAs and its institutionalization attests to MOH's commitment towards building
internal capacity. The Bank has been supporting the development and institutionalization of
NHAs in many countries and despite greater institutional capacity in other countries the
Bank's efforts have met with less success.

       Other important outputs under Component A include: (i) a Resource Allocation
Manual developed after the NHAs to help MOH in its budget planning, (ii) revision of the
overseas treatment policy, and (iii) development of the private practice policy. In addition, a
number of health financing thematic papers were prepared through the Project which resulted
in several important recommendations being implemented. These papers discussed the
development and implementation of user fees, options for overseas medical treatment
schemes and the use of public facilities by private providers.

        At the request of the Government of Tonga, the World Bank recently prepared an
additional Health Financing Options Paper which assessed a range of different health
financing options in the context of the Tongan health system. This activity was financed
outside the scope of the Project in an Analytic and Advisory Activity (AAA) funded from a
Bank-executed trust fund. Given the fact that the Project's Component A also focused on
health financing reforms, the Bank team implemented this AAA activity in close
collaboration with the coordination team of Component A. The paper was discussed with the
Government of Tonga in May 2009 in a workshop with the participation of all major
stakeholders and Development Partners. During discussions, participants favored the option
to "remain with the current financing system (through general revenues) and look for
additional resources through a combination of user fees and efficiency savings". This option
was clearly recognized as the way forward and is expected to be pursued by MOH in the
future. The close link between this AAA and the Project should be recognized as good
practice.

       Activities under Component B ­ Improving Health Information Management
were completed satisfactorily. Outcomes of these activities include: (i) significantly
improved information collection and reporting capacity, (ii) strengthened information
management, including clinical information, and medical record management, (iii) upgraded
MOH information technology (IT) infrastructure, (iv) improved quality of patient
management, (v) improved billing procedures, (vi) upgraded analytical skills in the Health
Information Center, and (vii) provision of reliable and timely data for decision-makers.
Following an extensive system testing and user training program, the HIS started operating in
March 2009.

        The achievement of the HIS cannot be under-estimated. Implementation of health
information systems is particularly challenging even in more advanced economies. Tonga is
one of the few countries in the Pacific to have an HIS of this scale. In fact, the Bank does not
have a strong record in guiding the implementation of HIS under Bank-financed projects. It
is particularly encouraging that commitment to continue strengthening the information

                                               8
culture in the MOH is strong. To maximize the effectiveness of such investments, and also
to build user support and buy-in, the Government with the Bank's Project team took an
important decision to focus intensively on strengthening of information management and
processes, as well as basic computer skills development, for the first half of the Project
before investing in computerized information systems. In addition, the MOH established and
maintained an adequately-staffed IT department whose capacity was developed by an
international IT mentor. This was an important step in an environment where technical
capacity is limited.

       The MOH is using IT effectively to share information internally and externally. The
MOH is maintaining its external website www.health.gov.to, launched in October 2007 and
has budgeted for two years of recurrent costs, including a 12-month maintenance contract
with the supplier. The MOH has an intranet, where the Health Data Dictionary developed
under the Project is posted. Sustainability of the HIS is being ensured through additional
support as part of the scope of the St. John of God-Ballarat twinning program with Australia.
Both hospitals are running a similar version of the HIS so user support can be provided, in
addition to that provided by the vendor.

        The most challenging activity under this component was the implementation of the
community based diabetes control program, which encountered many delays, initially due to
confusion about support for similar activities being implemented with support from the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), the New Zealand Agency for
International Development (NZAID) and WHO. Once the role of the various interventions
was clarified, activities under this sub-component proceeded. Good capacity for NCD
screening and a routine monitoring program was developed at three community health clinics
where 434 patients suffering from diabetes and hypertension are currently being monitored
and treated. During project implementation, 52 cases of diabetes were detected through the
three pilot community health clinics. The NCD risk factor survey planned for 2009 has been
postponed to 2010 because of human resources constraints.

        Implementation of activities under Component C ­ Improvement of Quality of
Vaiola Hospital was highly satisfactory. The rehabilitated hospital re-opened on December
19, 2007 and since its re-opening has been functioning well. No major defects or mal-
functions were identified. The master plan developed for the hospital with financing from
AusAID consisted of seven packages. The Credit financed two packages -- Package A
(psychiatric ward and laundry/kitchen with temporary fit out for the isolation ward, diabetic
clinic and physiotherapy) and B2 ­ a two storey building for the pediatric ward, medical and
isolation wards, circulation block, chapel and ramp, medical gas facility, staff car park,
equipment for all three wards and the medical gas facility. The Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) financed in parallel Package B1 ­ clinical service buildings with
three operating theatres, recovery, Intensive Care Unit (ICU), Central Sterile Supplies
Department (CSSD), X-ray, pathology, surgical and obstetrics wards, including 6 delivery
suites, the waste treatment plans as well as equipping these facilities. JICA conducted a
feasibility study early this year and it is likely to approve an aid package of US$40 million
equivalent for the rehabilitation of the C-D-E-F blocks at the Vaiola Hospital. The effective
and systematic efforts displayed by the PMU during the construction phase of the Vaiola

                                             9
Hospital under JICA and IDA financing ensured the successful completion of the works.
Without this approach, the construction activities could have encountered serious problems
and delays.

        This component also supported the development of an Estate Management Policy and
a Preventive Maintenance Plan to guide facilities maintenance. The MOH assigned 6.5% of
its total recurrent budget for FY08-09 for the maintenance of the Vaiola Hospital, which
according to the last supervision mission (October/November 2008) was adequate. One
concern raised by various missions relates to the lack of autonomy of the Vaiola
administration over the maintenance budget, which is controlled directly by the MOH. A
positive move is the agreement reached by the MOH with the MOF that any unspent balance
from the maintenance budget will be retained as a reserve fund for maintenance in
subsequent years.

        The rehabilitation of the Vaiola Hospital also had implications on health financing
policies. During the development of the new user fee policy, a series of consultations and
focus group discussions were held with relevant stakeholders. These focus group discussions
demonstrated that the population appreciated the new hospital and considered the proposed
small increase in user fees fair and adequate in relation to the improved quality of services.

       The component also achieved improved hospital management and strengthened
capacity for managing health care waste management. Hospital management improvements
have been possible by parallel management training provided with support from AusAID.
The Health Care Waste Management Policy and Regulations, as well as the Waste
Management Plan, became operational in February 2006. The MOH appointed early in the
process a full-time Health Care Waste Manager and most activities were completed ahead of
schedule. Both these activities were closely coordinated with AusAID and JICA, who also
financed activities in these areas. The progress in implementing the waste management
system and its maintenance program is commendable; it has been challenging and less
successful in other countries in the region. The Government's commitment to implementing
the waste management system continues to be strong.

       Component D ­ Project Management and Coordination was also Satisfactory and
supported the functioning of the PMU and financed technical assistance, training and
operating costs. The PMU performed well. The skills and experience acquired by the PMU
team over the duration of the Project have been significant, and in recognition of this, the
MOH has created civil service positions to ensure the retention of this capacity. It is
important to stress that the systematic efforts displayed by the PMU during the construction
phase of the Vaiola Hospital ensured the successful completion of the construction packages.
Without this approach, the construction activities could have encountered serious delays.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        The PMU was responsible for collecting and reporting on Project monitoring
indicators. The MOH was successful in establishing a system to collect Project indicators
that were useful in monitoring progress in achievement of Project objectives. The system

                                             10
successfully collected data and reported on indicators through progress reports. The
monitoring system allowed measurement of three types of indicators: (a) input indicators
associated with investments/expenditures; (b) process indicators associated with completion
of key Project activities; and (c) outcome indicators aimed at measuring the Project's results
in relation to its development objectives.

        The Project supported the development and implementation of the HIS at the Vaiola
Hospital. The Bank's team ensured continuity in its team to guide the implementation of
health information management, including strengthening the information culture of the
Ministry, and the development and implementation of the HIS. Technical assistance under
the Project, training of the Health Information Center team, and additional capacity building
efforts by WHO, JICA, and AusAID have successfully strengthened the capacity of the
MOH to collect, interpret and report health information at the national and local levels. The
HIS has become an important tool for monitoring coverage trends and performance. It
provides MOH management with timely relevant data. Reports are shared and discussed on
a monthly basis. Most importantly, the Project was successful in instilling a culture of
evidence whereby data is used to make decisions and to further improve efficiency.
Information generated by the HIS is used in the annual MOH reports. Further improvements
will continue to be supported by AusAID, WHO, and JICA.

2.4    Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

        An environmental analysis conducted during preparation addressed the need for
proper disposal of debris, including adoption of a remediation plan to handle asbestos and for
its incorporation in the contractor bid package and supervision by the consultant. The Project
supported development of a Health Care Waste Management System which was
implemented satisfactorily. A Health Care Waste Management Policy was developed and
translated into Tongan; technical guidelines were also prepared. The Waste Management
Plan has been operating since February 2006. Color-coded bins were distributed to the
hospital and rural health centers and recycling bins have also been set up at Vaiola Hospital.
Since August 2006, health care waste has been disposed in the new AusAID-funded
hazardous waste cell. This was the government's preferred solution for disposal since
incineration met with funding problems and local environmental concerns. However, issues
were identified regarding the method of pre-treatment of health care waste prior to disposal.
To solve these issues, the MOH procured an autoclave under the Project.

       Activities under the Project complied with environmental safeguards as follow:

       Land Issues. There was no land acquisition or resettlement under the Project.

       Environmental Sustainable Construction. The redevelopment of the hospital makes
       maximum use of cross-ventilation and has overhangs to minimize solar penetration
       into rooms. Rooms are well ventilated and cool and are naturally lit to make limited
       use of electricity.




                                             11
        Waste Management was supported directly by the Project. Extensive training in
        health care waste management was provided under the Project and with financial
        assistance from AusAID and JICA, both through in-country and overseas training.

        In terms of fiduciary compliance the Project also performed satisfactorily. In
particular:

        Financial Management (FM) is rated Satisfactory. Financial management records
and reporting were submitted regularly and all of the external audits were prepared on time
and with unqualified opinions. On the basis of experience with implementation, reallocation
of funds within categories was approved by the Bank. Disbursements under the Project
proceeded generally as planned and the proceeds of the Credit were almost entirely
disbursed. Withdrawal applications were prepared regularly and supporting documentation
was complete. Prior to the closing date, the Bank agreed to an amendment to the DCA to
approve retroactively an increase in the percentage of financing of civil works. This enabled
Tonga to take advantage of currency fluctuations to reimburse the MOF for payments for
civil works made by the Government well beyond those agreed at the design stage.

        Procurement is rated Satisfactory. For the most part, procurement was implemented
without major difficulties and its performance was consistently rated Satisfactory until about
one year before the Credit Closing when it was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory to
reflect the turnover of procurement staff, which affected procurement of minor items. The
officer appointed to support the PMU with procurement at that time had limited experience in
the matter. Following the departure of the procurement specialist, the Project Coordinator
and Administrative Assistant handled the procurement of the last packages in a satisfactory
manner. All in all, it is commendable that with limited prior experience, the PMU was able
to successfully manage complex procurement, including civil works, medical, and office
equipment, and the Health Information System, in addition to consulting packages.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

       Support to the sector will continue through a new AusAID Grant, which is to be
approved in the coming months. The AusAID Grant will support the implementation of the
MOH Corporate Plan to enable the MOH to fund critical service delivery deficiencies and to
help strengthen governance and policy making in the health sector. WHO is providing
fellowships for training in various areas previously supported by the Project, including health
financing, NHAs, and quantitative analysis. WHO is also actively supporting capacity
building for the management of health promotion activities. JICA is supporting health care
waste management and hospital maintenance, and is likely to finance the redevelopment of
the remaining wards of the Vaiola Hospital (see also Section 2.2).

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

       This evaluation found that the PDO were of strategic relevance to the development of
the health sector at the time the Project was approved. The Project design was consistent
                                              12
with the Bank's Pacific Regional Strategy, which aimed to build human capital, policies,
institutions and infrastructure needed to bring about equitable and sustainable growth. The
PDO continue to be integral to the Government and Bank's strategies in the sector. As
discussed in Section 2.1, there were shortcomings in the documentation. However, the
Project's design was of overall relevance to the development of the health sector in Tonga.

3.2    Achievements of Project Development Objectives

         As noted earlier, the PDO differ between the body of the PAD and the PAD Annex
on Results Monitoring. That said, ISRs included and commented on the PDO presented in
the body of the PAD. Overall, this evaluation finds that the achievement of the PDO (as per
the PAD) is Satisfactory. The evaluation was based on analyses of indicators and evidence
linked to the two items listed as objectives of the Project as well as an evaluation of how the
activities supported by the Project were linked to the achievement of objectives. The Project
was successful in meeting its development objectives and key indicators, with some minor
shortcomings as previously articulated.

        The risk at the time of the ICR that development outcomes (or expected outcomes)
will not be maintained is rated Moderate. The MOH's ownership and commitment to
sustaining gains are strong. In addition, development partners' financial support for the
various key areas addressed by the Project will continue in the coming years such as health
financing, health information systems, management and clinical training, and additional civil
works and equipping of the Vaiola Hospital. The discussion below addresses the various
components of the PDO and associated indicators.

         Development and implementation of appropriate health financing policies and health
information systems. The Project made a substantial contribution to the development of
health financing policies and their implementation. The Project built strong technical
capacity in the MOH to prepare NHAs. Through the support of the Project, Tonga has
institutionalized the NHAs to the extent by which the NHA Unit can develop the reports on
their own without external technical assistance. This contributed to the improved ability of
the MOH to analyze expenditures and prepare more accurate budgets.

        One of the key indicators from the PDO was the share of the MOH's revenues funded
by the Government, which was intended to be reduced from 98% to 92%. The target was set
on the assumption that new revenue sources would be identified (e.g. social health insurance,
private health insurance, user fees, etc.) as a result of health financing reforms supported by
the Project. With the Project's support, a new health financing policy was initiated which
aimed at increasing the non-governmental share of revenues through the introduction of user
fees, but the policy was introduced with some delays. Therefore, by the time of the Project
completion, the impact of user fees on reducing the share of the Government sources in
MOH's revenues could not be estimated. However, it is most likely that the planned target of
92% will be achieved within a year from Credit closing, as the new user fee policy is
expected to increase non-governmental revenues for the hospital by around 200%.




                                              13
        Increased spending on primary and secondary prevention of NCDs was another PDO
indicator. This indicator was later revised to focus on primary prevention only due to the
challenges in separating secondary prevention from other categorical expenses in the
information collected. The revised indicator set a target of 2.2% of MOH's expenditures to
be spent on primary prevention in comparison to 1.2% at the baseline. The Project did meet
its mid-term target and actually slightly exceeded it (1.6% achievement versus 1.5% target).
By the time of the Project completion, the exact amount of spending could not be estimated
as the NHA for 2009 was not yet completed. However, preliminary estimates suggest that
the 2.2% spending target has most likely been met, due to the development of a large health
promotion fund set up by the Government in 2007.

        The Project was successful in supporting the development of health information
systems. Important outcomes include: (i) capacity developed in the MOH to develop,
implement, and institutionalize a system of NHAs, (ii) established ability to integrate
findings of the NHAs in the planning process and to utilize its framework in estimating
expenditures and allocating resources, (iii) developed HIS and upgraded analytical skills in
the Health Information Center, (iv) strengthened skills for collection, management and use of
information within the MOH, (v) improved community base reporting, and (vi) strengthened
medical record management. Prior to the Project, only 50% of statistical reports from all
levels of the health system were correctly compiled and timely submitted to the MOH. By
the end of the Project this reached 90%. The Project supported introduction of effective
reporting systems for births, deaths and infectious diseases. The MOH started to issue
quarterly epidemiological bulletins with up-to-date epidemiological information. The HIS
was set up and the staff were fully trained in its operation.

         Improvement of the administrative, functional and technical quality of health
facilities. By investing in infrastructure redevelopment and management strengthening, the
Project was successful in helping improve the administrative, functional and technical quality
of the Vaiola Hospital, which serves as the national outpatient referral center and tertiary
hospital, as well as the provider of primary curative services for residents of the capital city,
who represent 68% of the population of the country. The redevelopment of the Vaiola
Hospital, jointly financed with JICA, helped improve the quality of health care delivery. The
PDO indicator related to this component envisaged the increase of bed occupancy rate from
40% at baseline to 60% by the end of the Project. In 2008, the Project exceeded its target
reaching a bed occupancy rate of 70%. The rate of patient turnover also increased
significantly. At the Project onset the annual number of discharged patients was 5,592; this
figure increased to 8,312 by the end of the Project.

        The rehabilitation of the Vaiola Hospital also had a positive impact on the health
workforce. Hospital management reported that staff motivation had increased as a result of
the improved working environment, as well as the training and skills upgrade supported by
the Project and other Development Partners. Strengthened clinical and administrative
practices and processes have improved efficiency and effectiveness of health service
delivery. The Project strengthened the information culture in the MOH, particularly health
centers, which resulted in considerable improvement of the MOH's capacity for timely



                                               14
collection, collation and analysis of health information. This in turn has improved the
responsiveness of the health sector to the health needs of the population.

        There has been considerable improvement in hospital management and maintenance
practices. The hospital maintenance manual was developed and implemented and new staff
positions were created for its implementation. The Government nearly reached the Project's
target of spending at least 7% of the MOH's recurrent cost budget on maintenance. This is a
significant improved when compared to 2.3% spending at the onset of the Project.

3.3    Efficiency

        Available data was insufficient to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the Project at
closing. The PAD included a cost-benefit analysis that was necessarily limited in terms of
availability and reliability of baseline data. A revised economic analysis was undertaken
during the Mid-term Review as it was recognized that the appraisal economic analysis
contained some significant numerical errors, and the discussion of the Project's benefits was
incomplete. The Mid-term noted that the Project would make large investments to improve
the quality and efficiency of services at the hospital and that the investments could lead to
Project benefits from the following sources: (i) quantity of services provided by the Vaiola
Hospital may increase relative to the resources used (staff productivity may increase), (ii)
quality of the services provided may increase, leading to improved health outcomes and/or
the increased satisfaction of patients, (iii) the new hospital may be able to provide additional
services that can be more efficiently provided in Tonga than overseas, (iv) reductions in
operating costs may occur by following international best practices in hospital design for
tropical climates, and (v) environmental improvements (control and safe disposal of
hazardous waste).

        While it is difficult to estimate to what extent health outcomes have improved as the
result of the Project's investment in the Vaiola Hospital, discussions with MOH and hospital
staff indicate that benefits under (i), (ii), (iv), and (v) have been attained, although they
cannot be quantified. Hospital management reports that staff productivity has increased
because personnel have become more satisfied with their working environment and are
prepared to work harder and more efficiently. This is supported by the substantial increase
recorded in the annual number of patients discharged (5,592 at Project onset to 8,312 by
Project close) and a higher bed occupancy rate beyond the variances related to seasonality. It
follows that better satisfied hospital personnel are more likely to remain in their jobs,
reducing staff turnover rates and reducing the risk of vacant posts. According to hospital
managers, productivity has also increased because the physical lay-out of the hospital is more
efficient, enabling better patient flows and a better match between facility demand and
supply. Doctors and nurses also acknowledge that patient waiting time has decreased. In
addition, a better organized and more hygienic hospital can be expected to provide better
quality services leading to improved health outcomes. In the absence of quantitative data to
estimate the efficiency of the Project investments, this report has detailed the qualitative
assessment obtained during the ICR review, which describes the positive impact of the
Project on the efficiency of the health system.



                                              15
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

        The Project achieved its development objectives with only limited shortcomings. It
contributed significantly to the improvement of the performance of the health sector. As
noted earlier, the Project has strengthened the MOH's capacity in evidence-based policy
making, analysis of health expenditures and funding sources, and planning. The Project
improved the availability and quality of health statistics. The reconstruction of the Vaiola
Hospital made quality health services available to a large share of the population. The
MOH's staff gained valuable skills in project management, including procurement and
financial management. In general, the Project Development Objectives and design were
appropriate to the challenges of the sector and complemented activities supported by other
development partners such as AusAID, JICA and WHO. On this basis, the ICR rates the
overall outcome of the Project as Satisfactory.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

        Data to monitor the impact of the Project on poverty and gender aspects of
development were not collected making it difficult to make verifiable conclusions on poverty
and gender impacts. However, the physical and system improvements in the Vaiola Hospital,
achieved with the contribution of the Project, are likely to have an impact in improving
access and quality of care to populations of all socio-economic groups existing within the
catchment area, including the poor and women. The Project was effective in reaching the
intended Project beneficiaries such as MOH, health centers, managers, and staff of the Vaiola
Hospital, who acquired professional, clinical and administrative skills through the Project.
Strengthened clinical and administrative practices and procedures are likely to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of health service delivery and ultimately health outcomes. Other
beneficiaries that were reached by the Project included people suffering from diabetes
participating in the community-based NCD prevention program, as well as the greater
Tongan population who are exposed to the changes resulting from the improved health
policies.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

        It is difficult to attribute success in capacity building to a single project as other
factors are always at play, including interventions of projects financed by other development
partners. The last several years have seen important changes to the organizational culture of
the MOH to one where information is shared, decisions are delegated, staff are expected and
encouraged to participate in problem-solving and decision-making, and innovation is
rewarded. In addition, there has been an increase in awareness across the MOH with regard
to health information and its value as both a clinical and management tool. The Project,
together with initiatives supported by other Development Partners, has effectively supported
the development of middle and senior management, as well as overall improvements in
human resource management. This change in organizational culture within the MOH has
resulted in a range of improvements at the operational level.
                                             16
       After the completion of the Project, the MOH retained the staff of the PMU and
provided them with adequate positions. The MOH will therefore benefit from the experience
and the skills the PMU staff gained during project implementation, especially in the area of
coordination, planning, procurement, and financial management.

        The Project financed significant investments in training across health information,
medical records, and IT systems and policy development, health financing, hospital
management, health waste management, project and procurement management. Areas
requiring further attention and support are clinical human resources capacity, health
financing, and hospital management. What has been achieved so far is remarkable and is
expected to continue with the ongoing support of the other Development Partners to the
Government of Tonga in these, and other areas.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

        An unintended benefit of the Project was that the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital
created employment contributing to reduced unemployment. Added groups of beneficiaries,
which were not fully recognized in the PAD, have been: (i) the private sector benefiting from
the outsourcing of security and cleaning services for the Vaiola Hospital, and (ii) staff of
health clinics who have received training and improved their skills for collecting, analyzing
and reporting.

        One potential negative impact could occur from the introduction of user fees at the
Vaiola Hospital if the fee exemption rules prove ineffective to protect the economically
vulnerable population from higher health care expenditures. The new fees are primarily
targeted at non-Tongan nationals using government health services, and health services
related to travel or emigration. However, the new policy involves an increase in fees for
inpatient food and domestic services (admission fees) for Tongan nationals. These charges
are capped at 21 days. User fee exemptions apply to patients under the age of 14 and over
65, those in the Infections Disease Ward or isolated in the ward for infection control, and
those admitted for psychiatric illness. As this is the first year of implementation, there is no
analysis yet on revenues collected through user fees, the costs of implementing the scheme,
and demand-side effects of the fees. The evaluation of the user fees to be carried out after
the closing date of the Credit should examine their impact on household income and health
seeking behavior. Expected benefits from user fees will be compromised if the user fees
achieve only a marginal increase in funding while reducing access to health services and
increasing the financial burden of the poor.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

       No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                              17
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

       The ICR team rates the risk to development outcomes as Moderate. The
achievements of the sector are robust and the benefits gained from many elements of the
Project are institutionalized. The system is forward-looking and will continue to be
supported by MOH with funding from the new AusAID-financed project, WHO, and JICA.

        The MOH culture is characterized by a participatory management style and a `can do'
attitude. There are good prospects for the sustainability of this culture. Although there have
been changes in key senior positions, there is a critical mass of managers and staff committed
to the new way of doing business, who should influence any new leaders of the MOH.

        Systemic changes that will support institutional sustainability include a clear vision,
strategy and operational plans; performance management processes to track progress and
hold managers accountable; clarity of roles and responsibilities; and new systems and
processes documented in policies, manuals and checklists. Most important is that systems
are integrated, where possible, with wider public sector reforms.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

        The ICR team rates the Quality at Entry as Moderately Satisfactory. The Project
design was appropriate at the time of its approval for reasons described in Section 2.1. While
the main focus of the Project was on reconstruction, it also supported Tonga to develop a
framework for longer-term health policy and systems development in both health financing
and health information. As noted in Section 2.1, there were shortcomings in the
documentation which should have outlined more explicitly the compelling reasons for the
Project having heavy inputs in reconstruction. Due reference should have been made to the
outcomes of the analytical work undertaken with financing from AusAID and the World
Bank, which supported this approach.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

       The ICR team rates the quality of supervision as Satisfactory. Generally, there
were two supervision missions annually. The skill mix of mission teams was adequate and
the continuity of the Health Information Technology Policy Specialist ensured systematic
guidance in the implementation of the HIS sub-component, which outcome has been
successful. Team leadership changed hands four times causing some adjustments in the way
the Bank guided implementation. Positive points and shortcomings of supervision can be
summarized as follow:




                                              18
Positive Aspects:

      ·   Missions were effective in reviewing all aspects of Project specific progress.
      ·   Bank teams developed strong relations with Government.
      ·   Missions coordinated well with development partners to ensure complementary
          rather than duplicative efforts.
      ·   The overall focus on micro issues, combined with analytical work conducted by the
          Bank and local counterparts, helped ensure that the sector performance continued to
          improve.
      ·   Aide Memoires contained good analysis of policy relevant issues and
          recommendations in addition to the review of the Project's implementation progress.
      ·   Systematic reporting on indicators in Aide Memoires.
      ·   The continuity of the Bank's Health Information Technology Policy Specialist
          played an important role in the effective implementation of the Health Information
          System.
      ·   Systematic follow-up during the construction phase of the Vaiola Hospital to
          anticipate possible problems of coordination given that the reconstruction of the
          hospital was being financed by the Bank and JICA.
      ·   The amendment of the Project indicators as soon as it became evident that some
          indicators were no longer relevant.
      ·   Towards the end of the Project, under very limiting time constraints efforts were
          made by the Task Team to allow the Government to utilize the surplus amount that
          became available due to currency fluctuations. The Bank showed flexibility and
          responsiveness to the client's needs. Agreement was reached with MOF and the
          DCA amended with a short extension of the closing date to allow for retroactive
          financing of civil works cofinanced by the Government and most of the available
          funds were disbursed within the grace disbursement period.

In terms of shortcomings:

      ·   Notwithstanding the last point above, better financial management guidance by the
          Bank could have been given to the PMU well before the end of the Project to ensure
          that the country took full advantage of currency fluctuations and funds were fully
          utilized before the closing date.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

       The ICR team rates the Overall bank Performance as Satisfactory for reasons
described above.

5.2       Recipient Performance

(a)       Government Performance

       Government performance during project preparation was Satisfactory. There was
strong motivation on the part of the MOH to tackle systemic health financing challenges that

                                              19
had been identified during the design process and the MOH management and staff
participated actively in project preparation. Overall, the Government ensured adequate and
timely funding of the counterpart funding for civil works and provided more resources than
planned. Recognizing the importance of the health sector, the MOF has steadily increased its
budget allocations to the sector in the past several years, notwithstanding the relatively low
increase in GDP (see also Section 2). To protect the capacity of the sector to deliver essential
services, the health sector was largely exempted from the redundancy program in 2006-07.
Funding for the reconstruction of the Vaiola Hospital was not affected by the fiscal
constraints experienced after the 2006 civil service wage settlement. In fact, the MOF
contributed over and above its commitment for the reconstruction of the hospital. Policy
development has progressed apace with a large number of policies and strategies developed,
especially related to health financing.

(b)       Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

       The ICR team rates Implementing Agency Performance as Satisfactory. The
performance overall of the MOH in establishing a policy framework and guiding the re-
development of the Vaiola Hospital is acknowledged as strong by the government and donors
alike. The good performance of the Project reflects the active involvement of the Minister
and his strong leadership. The continuous involvement of the Project Director, the PMU, the
component implementation managers, the Project Steering Committee, as well as various
working groups, was also key to Project performance.

       The commitment of the MOH to the Project extended to the end of Project
implementation. The MOH's management and staff participated actively in the ICR mission
discussions and the MOH prepared a solid contribution to the ICR (Annex 7).

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

       The overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory on the basis of the strong
performance of the Government, especially in guaranteeing high level political support that
was also demonstrated through increased funding for the sector.

6.        Lessons learned

Lessons learned can be categorized into the following major headings:

Coordination

      ·   Close coordination with development partners during preparation and implementation
          was critical. Complementary technical assistance provided by AusAID and WHO
          was crucial to the development of the sector.
      ·   The capacity to mobilize financial resources from JICA and the Bank for the
          redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital and the close monitoring of progress of
          construction packages financed by the two financiers ensured that construction work
          was completed timely and effectively.

                                              20
Government ownership and capacity development

   ·   Reforms for a sector such as health are costly and short to medium term economic
       efficiencies and returns might not be forthcoming until after Project activities are
       completed. The Project, together with other development partners, devoted resources
       to building the capacity of the MOH to be a better steward of the sector. It also
       focused on building the capacity for hospital management, health information, and for
       the formulation and implementation of health financing policies and reforms. The
       direct tangible benefits of the developed policies and of the training related to
       efficiency and health outcomes will only become visible several years after Credit
       closing.
   ·   The strategy pursued through this Project and through activities financed by AusAID
       and WHO gives evidence of a balanced choice between visible results in terms of
       reconstruction and improved service delivery and the development of a health
       financing policy framework and medium-term planning.
   ·   The decision by Government and the Project team to focus intensively on
       strengthening of information management and processes, as well as basic computer
       skills development, for the first half of Project implementation before investing in
       computerized information systems was crucial to maximize the effectiveness of HIS
       investments, and build user support and buy-in.
   ·   Institutionalization of important activities such as NHAs can be achieved with strong
       commitment from relevant staff and management who understand the benefits for
       decision making to be derived from the NHAs.

Implementation guidance by the Bank

   ·   Providing continuous guidance in the context of a limited institutional capacity is
       essential. Bank supervision must be continuous and intensive. Adequate supervision
       resources must be allocated. The continuity of the Bank's Health Information
       Technology Policy Specialist played an important role in the successful
       implementation of the HIS.
   ·   Aide memoires should be written keeping the audience in mind. In an institutionally-
       constrained environment such as in Tonga, attempts should be made to simplify the
       Aide Memoires, addressing key issues and recommendations in annexes and keeping
       the main body of the Aide Memoire short and crisp.

Procurement Challenges

   ·   For planned civil works/medical equipment procurement, it is important to begin the
       process early, especially in small countries where competition and capacity are
       limited. Procurement of civil works was done effectively.
   ·   Close coordination of procurement planning and execution with the other main
       financier of the hospital (JICA) was crucial in ensuring successful execution of the
       civil works.


                                            21
7.    Comments Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)   Recipient/implementing agencies

      See Annex 7 for Government's Contribution

(b)   Other partners and stakeholders

        The ICR team held discussions with AusAID, WHO, and JICA. Their comments are
reflected in this document to the extent possible.




                                        22
Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                          Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                   Percentage of
            Components                  Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
                                                                                    Appraisal
                                           millions)            millions)
Strengthening Health Care
                                              0.70                  0.45                64%
Financing
Improving Health Information
                                              1.25                  1.41                113%
Management
Improving the Quality of Vaiola
                                              9.56                 10.23                107%
Hospital
Project Management and
                                              0.87                  0.79                91%
Coordination
Total Costs                                  12.38                 12.88               104%



(b) Financing


                           Appraisal        Actual
                           Estimate        Estimate       Percentage of
    Source of Funds
                            (USD            (USD           Appraisal
                           millions)       millions)
Borrower                     1.44            0.271            19%
International
Development                  10.94           12.61           115%
Association
 Total                       12.38           12.88           104%




1
   The IDA Credit was amended on May 29, 2009 to allow for retroactively increasing the withdrawal
percentage for the civil works category. Consequently, MOH was able to apply for reimbursements equivalent
to US$1.14 million for eligible payments made by MOF for civil works and thereby its overall contribution
proportionally decreased.


                                                     23
(c) Project Cost by Category (in USD Million equivalent)


                                    Appraisal         Actual
                                                                   Percentage of
           Categories             Estimate (USD    Disbursement
                                                                    Appraisal
                                     millions)    (USD millions)
(1) Civil Works                        7.29            9.42           129%
(2) Goods                              1.40            1.02            73%
(3) Consulting Services                2.93            2.07            71%
(4) Training and Workshops             0.54            0.24            44%
(5) Incremental Operating Costs        0.22            0.13            59%
Total Project Costs                   12.38            12.88          104%




                                          24
Annex 2.       Outputs by Component

This Annex should be read in conjunction with Section 2.2, which discusses outcomes
Component             Planned outputs at               Actual outputs/outcomes at ICR                             Comments
                      Appraisal
Component A ­ Strengthening Health Care Financing ­ US$0.70 million)
(i) Strengthen the   Provision of technical assistance The Project financed US$0.49 million towards
capacity of MOH to   to develop a system of national   strengthening Health Care Financing in Tonga
plan resource needs  health accounts (NHAs)            through technical assistance, including for the
for the sector                                         development of a system of NHAs.


                       Capacity created within MOH to       A process of knowledge transfer and capacity          While knowledge transfer has taken place, the
                       implement and institutionalize       building was created. Three NHA reports have          development of the NHAs relies primarily on one
                       NHAs                                 been developed. Two with the assistance of a          or two people within the Tongan NHA Unit. The
                                                            consultant and the third developed by the Tonga       sustainability of NHAs must be ensured by
                                                            NHA Unit. A fourth is under preparation by the        training additional staff.
                                                            NHA Unit.


                       Improved capacity within MOH         The NHA reports have provided greater clarity         Due to the delay in the introduction of user fees, an
                       to develop, inform and introduce     around health expenditure information that was        evaluation on their effectiveness in generating
                       health care financing policies       not previously available to decision makers. It       additional revenue while ensuring sustained equity
                       integrated to the planning process   is envisaged that this information will feed into     in access to care was not completed in time for the
                       of MOH and MOF                       the next MOH Corporate Plan 2008-2012.                review of this Project.

                                                            A new user fee policy for Vaiola Hospital was
                                                            approved by Cabinet in October 2008 and
                                                            introduced in January 2009, which resulted in a
                                                            five-fold increase of user fees for inpatient care,
                                                            resulting in doubling of revenue from this
                                                            source of funding.




                                                                                25
(ii) Strengthen the    Capacity created at MOH to use        The Project financed US$0.20 million of
role of MOH in         NHA framework to estimate             technical assistance. NHA information has
financing Primary      expenditures on preventive care       allowed for close monitoring of expenditures on
Health Care (PHC)      and PHC                               preventative and primary care.
and preventive
services
                       Appropriate budget allocations      There has been a greater allocation of MOH             While an increased resource allocation is required
                       for PHC and preventive care         expenditure on primary prevention of NCDs              for preventative and primary health care services,
                       Capacity developed at MOH to        over the life of the Project. It is difficult to       it could be problematic to reallocate resources
                       estimate targets for the proportion determine whether the target of 2.2% has been          from other types of services also in need. The
                       by which resources allocated will reached, given the challenge of teasing out the          outcome of this finding has been to look for
                       be increased over the life of the   secondary prevention allocations from the              additional sources of savings that can be made
                       Project                             allocations for curative care. However,                through increased efficiencies, which can then be
                                                           allocations for primary prevention alone have          directed to preventative and primary health care.
                       MOH budget allocation for           raised the budget allocation to 1.6% from 1.2%.
                       preventive and PHC increased as
                       per the agreed targets

(iii) Development of   In-depth assessment of user fees      The analysis of user fees at government              The current exemption rules from the user fees for
options to finance     at government facilities              facilities focused on issues related to outpatient   inpatient care at Vaiola Hospital are:
health services and                                          care (user fees are currently charged for            · Children under 14,
implementation of                                            inpatient care only). Because of lack of mean        · Elderly over age 65, and
preferred option                                             testing to determine individuals who should be       · Hospital stays beyond 21 days
                                                             exempt from paying, exceptions for payments          will be exempt from user fees for Tongan citizens
                                                             of user fees has been determined by age only         only. A questionnaire for evaluating the impact of
                                                             (under 14 and over 65).                              user fees on access to care and patient satisfaction
                                                                                                                  has been developed and will be administered to
                                                                                                                  inpatients routinely. It is too early to evaluate
                                                                                                                  results obtained from this survey.

                       Study to assess the use of public     The study on the use of public facilities by
                       facilities by private practitioners   private practitioners has been drafted submitted
                                                             to Cabinet for approval.




                                                                                 26
Study to explore contracting          MOH is currently contracting out security and
mechanisms for certain areas of       cleaning services to the private sector. Once the
the hospital such as food services,   next phases of the Vaiola Hospital
laundry, etc.                         redevelopment are completed, the MOH will
                                      examine the feasibility of contracting out
                                      laundry and cooking services.


Study to look at options for          Health Financing Options Paper was developed        WHO was also planning to do a study on the
private and social insurance          in the first half of the project implementation.    feasibility of social health insurance in Tonga.
                                      This led to the selection of user fees as a         However after the presentation of the Bank's
                                      preferred option. In addition to this the Bank      Health Financing Options paper WHO decided
                                      has mobilized additional resources from a trust     that the Bank's paper provided sufficient analysis
                                      fund and implemented a parallel AAA activity,       and adequate recommendations and pursuing
                                      which focused on the analysis of health             feasibility study of the social health insurance
                                      financing options more rigorously. This has         would not be necessary. Therefore the funding
                                      resulted in second paper on health financing        initially allocated for this activity was channeled to
                                      options. The paper was presented by the Bank        other priorities, mainly capacity building.
                                      to the Government of Tonga, Development
                                      Partners and church leaders in May 2009.
                                      Discussions following the presentation of the
                                      paper acknowledged the difficulties of
                                      introducing social insurance in Tonga at this
                                      stage.
Health Financing Options Paper
using results of (a) to (d) above.


Health Financing Options Paper        The three options presented in the paper were
discussed with government and         discussed in detail following the presentation.
preferred option chosen




                                                         27
                      Preferred option piloted and     The timing of this discussion fell close to the
                      evaluated including putting in   official adoption of user fee policy by the
                      place necessary administrative   Government. The paper confirmed that given
                      and legal orders.                the economic realities of Tonga, the
                                                       combination of funding from the general
                                                       revenues, user fees and efficiency enhancing
                                                       measures were the "way forward" and are
                                                       expected to be pursued by MOH in the future.

Component B ­ Improving Health Information Management (US$1.25 million)
(i) Strengthening    Training in basic computer     The Project financed US$1.74 million under
Information Culture  literary for key MOH staff     this component, out of which US$1.4 went to
of MOH                                              develop a HIS for Vaiola Hospital, and
                                                    US$0.34 million towards strengthening the
                                                    information culture of MOH.
                                                    Approximately 182 members of the health
                                                   workforce (including MOH staff, doctors,
                                                   nurses and health workers) have been trained.
                                                   The basic computer training package included
                                                   Windows, Microsoft Office (Excel, Word and
                                                   Access), Internet Explorer and Web browsing.

                      Strengthen and rationalize       A standardized reporting template was created
                      information flows in MOH         for consistent reporting from health clinics to
                                                       the HIC. Summary sheets are sent to the HIC
                                                       monthly for inputting into the system for
                                                       analysis.

                      Establish Health Information     HIC has qualified and highly motivated staff.
                      Center (HIC) ­ upgrade           Eleven computers were purchased for the
                      information infrastructure       formation of a computer lab.

                      Training for HIC staff to        As part of the development and implementation     Training for the HIC team was also provided by
                      strengthen data management and   of the HIS, HIC staff received training to        WHO, JICA and AusAID.
                      analysis                         support the system.




                                                                          28
Improved procedures for           A simplification and streamlining process of        The improvements in Health Information and
collection, management and use    reporting procedures was carried out as part of     Medical Records are:
of information throughout MOH     the development of the HIS. At the beginning of     · New Live Birth (2005) and Death (2008) policies
                                  the Project only 50% of the required reports        and procedures
                                  from all levels of health services were             · Annual Reporting
                                  completed and timely provided to the MOH. By        · Development of a minimum data set required by
                                  the end of the Project this reached the target of   MOH
                                  90%, which constitutes a major improvement.         · Revised forms and documentation
                                                                                      · Training of new coders in ICD-10-AM
                                                                                      · Introduction of baby records
                                                                                      · Revised information flow
                                                                                      · Introduction of Unique Health Identifier concept
                                                                                      · Digitization of MOH Annual Reports
                                                                                      · Establishment of a Library

Development and adoption of       A Health Data Dictionary was completed and is       Definitions are also provided on the spreadsheets
standardized definition (health   available on the MOH intranet site. Doctors and     as they are being completed by staff.
dictionary)                       nurses were consulted during the development
                                  of the dictionary. At the onset of the Project,
                                  only 25% of the codes were defined and used.
                                  By the end of the Project this reached 70%.

Regular use of information within Information collected and analyzed by the HIC
MOH to review performance and is presented at monthly management meetings.
inform decision making
Improved collection and           Strong improvements have taken place in the
monitoring system for public      consistency and reliability of health information
health data                       from the community health clinics and the
                                  hospital reporting.
Improved community-based                                                              The revised reporting template for community
reporting.                                                                            health clinics is only being used by those clinics on
                                                                                      Tongatapu. Outer islands are using other reporting
                                                                                      methods and report these to provincial
                                                                                      governments.




                                                     29
(ii) Development and   Development of an options paper     The Project financed US$1.4 million for the
implementation of a    for the HIS                         development and implementation of the HIS at
Hospital Information                                       Vaiola Hospital.
System (HIS) at                                            A detailed design for the HIS was developed
Vaiola Hospital                                            through extensive consultation with
                                                           stakeholders.

                       Options paper discussed and         A Project implementation workshop was hosted      Consultation took place with over 150 MOH staff,
                       agreement reached on option         by MOH in conjunction with the consulting         Doctors, World Bank officials, WHO officials and
                       preferred                           group IBA Health to discuss and comment on        the Government of Tonga's Statistics Department.
                                                           the proposed design.


                       Detailed functional specification   After consultations, the scope was refined to
                       for the preferred option            cover specific modules within a single database
                       developed                           to be accessible by all hospitals.


                       Design, installation and training   The HIS was successfully installed and three
                       for the HIS                         categories of users identified (basic,
                                                           intermediate and super user) with specific
                                                           training outlined for each group. Forty
                                                           computers were procured under the Project of
                                                           approximately 160 computers required for the
                                                           whole MOH network.



(iii) Information      An NCD risk factor survey           The Project financed US$72,000 toward
Management for         conducted in four demonstration     information management of NCD prevention
NCD prevention and     villages                            and control. A random cluster sample of 1000
control                                                    patients from 3 islands was conducted in
                                                           1998/2000 and 2004.




                                                                             30
Development of a village-level     Capacity for NCD screening and routine               The identification of new diabetic cases at the
NCD screening and routine          monitoring program was developed at 3                community health clinic level is an area that needs
monitoring program                 community health clinics. Approximately 434          continued improvement. An issue highlighted at
                                   patients suffering from diabetes and                 the community and hospital level is the capacity of
                                   hypertension are currently being monitored and       the Diabetes Clinic in the Vaiola Hospital to
                                   treated at the three community health clinics.       accommodate these new diabetic patients.


Training of health offices and     Additional training of health officers and public    The staff of the Diabetes Clinic conduct monthly
public health nurses in three      health nurses was provided by the specialists in     visits to the health centers during which they train
villages in community-based        Vaiola Hospital's Diabetes clinic in the             the health officers, hold patient consultations,
identification and management of   identification and management of NCDs.               review the medical follow-up of registered
NCDs ­ diabetes and                                                                     patients, and conduct patient education sessions.
hypertension.

Re-surveyed NCD risk factor of     The next NCD risk factor survey is planned for       As is the case in many of the medical disciplines,
four demonstration villages        2010 (originally scheduled for 2009). A              there is a shortage of human resource capacity to
                                   shortage of human resources was given as the         expand this program further and to ensure it
                                   reason for the survey delay.                         reaches its full potential.


Strengthen referral processes      The medical referral system functions well.
between the community and the      High risk diabetic patients are timely referred to
Vaiola Hospital for diabetes and   the Diabetes Clinic at Vaiola Hospital, where
hypertension.                      the appropriate course of treatment is
                                   determined patients are sent back to the
                                   community health center for ongoing
                                   monitoring and management support. As a
                                   result of the improved management the
                                   complications rates fell from 1:15 ration to 1:18
                                   (number of admission for diabetic complication
                                   per number of patients registered in the diabetic
                                   registry).




                                                      31
Component C ­ Improve Quality of Vaiola Hospital (VH) ­ (US$9.56 million)
(i) Redevelopment    Master plan for hospital           The Project financed US$10.23 million toward
of Vaiola Hospital   redevelopment                      the redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital.
                                                        The Master Plan for Hospital Redevelopment
                                                        was approved in early 2004.



                       Redevelopment of Vaiola             Package A, B1 and B2 (A and B2 financed by        Based on discussions with JICA, it is likely that
                       hospital ­ construction and         the Bank and others by JICA) were completed       the Government of Japan will finance the
                       rehabilitation of the hospital      and the rehabilitated Vaiola Hospital reopened    remaining packages (C-D-E-F blocks) of the
                                                           on December 19, 2007. The hospital has been in    Vaiola Hospital Redevelopment.
                                                           operation for more than a year and so far no
                                                           defects have been identified. The patient flow
                                                           has improved. The hospital is clean, patient
                                                           friendly and provides good working
                                                           environment for the staff. The hospital is well
                                                           equipped with necessary technology to offer a
                                                           wide range of inpatient and outpatient services
                                                           to the population. As a result, the bed
                                                           occupancy rate has increased from 40% (at the
                                                           Project onset) to 72% (at the end) and annual
                                                           number of discharged inpatients from 5592 to
                                                           8,315.

(ii) Improvement of    Technical assistance and training   The Project financed US$0.21million toward        Substantial work regarding hospital management
hospital management    to strengthen hospital              improving hospital management. Additional         has been done by AusAID under the Tonga Health
                       management at VH                    training is being financed by AusAID.             Sector Planning and Management Project 1999-
                                                                                                             2007.
                                                                                                             The work carried out by the Hospital Management
                                                                                                             Specialist for this Project took the form of mainly
                                                                                                             on-the-job training, which turned out to be far
                                                                                                             more beneficial for the participants as the formal
                                                                                                             training sessions as originally planned.
                                                                                                             Outpatients/Emergency department saw
                                                                                                             significantly improved operations of service as a
                                                                                                             result of this on-the-job training.



                                                                             32
                       Training and coaching for senior     A hospital management specialist was hired for
                       and middle managers                  in-country training and support to senior and
                                                            middle managers. In addition, key management
                                                            staff attended overseas training in New Zealand
                                                            and Australia. The hospital has developed a
                                                            maintenance manual and appointed the
                                                            maintenance clerk. The Government has
                                                            significantly increased budget allocation to
                                                            facility and equipment maintenance from 2.3%
                                                            to almost 7% of the MOH's total recurrent
                                                            costs.

                       Development and implementation The specialist hired to develop the hospital
                       of key management and human    management, also assisted with the
                       resource policies              development of key management tools such as
                                                      time management, staff score cards and
                                                      strategic planning.

                       Implementation of interventions      MOH is currently contracting out security and
                       to improve efficiency, including     cleaning services to the private sector. Once the
                       options for outsourcing services ­   next phases of the Vaiola Hospital
                       food and cleaning services           redevelopment are completed, MOH will
                                                            examine the feasibility of contracting out
                                                            laundry and cooking services.


(iii) Development of   Technical assistance for             The Health Care Waste Management Policy and
health care waste      strengthening the policy             Regulations and the Waste Management Plan
management system      framework for waste                  were completed and became operational in
                       management, including                February 2006.
                       preparation of practice guidelines
                       and policy reforms

                       In-service and external training     Three staff in the Waste Management Team
                       for staff responsible for waste      were trained in Samoa (2) and Brisbane (1) in
                       management at the VH                 effective and safe waste management practices.
                                                            In service training has been provided to all
                                                            nurse trainees in levels one to three.


                                                                               33
                       Equipment/installation of a waste   A waste water treatment facility has been
                       water treatment facility            purchased and installed through JICA funding.
                                                           This has been in operation since 2007.


                       Disposal containers for hazardous   The Project financed US$0.15 million towards
                       waste at VH                         the development of a health care waste
                       Vehicle for transportation of       management system. This included the
                       hazardous waste to disposal sites   purchasing of disposal containers at VH, waste
                                                           liners and bins, infection control personal
                                                           protection equipment, a medical waste
                                                           sterilizer/autoclave and a vehicle for the
                                                           transportation of hazardous waste to disposal
                                                           sites.

Component D ­ Project Management and coordination ­ (US$0.87 million)
                      Technical assistance on Project Technical assistance was provided in the areas
                      management                      of Project management and procurement.


                       Training of PMU staff               PMU staff underwent the following training       The skills acquired by the PMU team over the
                                                           over the 5 year Project. Project management in   duration of this Project have been broadly
                                                           Manila and World Bank Procurement Training       acknowledged and in recognition of these highly
                                                           in Sydney.                                       sort after skills, all PMU staff have been absorbed
                                                                                                            by MOH through staff positions.




                       Operating Costs of the PMU          The Project financed US$0.81 million towards
                                                           the management and coordination of the HSSP
                                                           through a PMU.




                                                                             34
Annex 3.     Economic and Financial Analysis

      See Section 3.3.




                                       35
Annex 4.        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Rekha Menon                 Sr. Economist                        EASHD Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
Carol Chen Ball             Senior Operations Officer           EASHD Team Leader
Natasha Beschorner          Senior ICT Policy Specialist        CITPO ICT
                                                                      Financial
David Michael Chandler      Sr. Financial Management Specialist EAPCO
                                                                      Management
James C. Knowles            Consultant                          PRMGE
John Malmborg               Consultant                          EASHD
Cristiano Costa e Silva
                            Procurement Specialist               EAPCO Procurement
Nunes
David Evans                 Health Specialist                    EASHD Team Leader
Alan D. Pattle              Consultant                           EASHD
Alfred P. Picardi           Consultant                           EASHD Environment
Bukhuti Shengelia           Sr. Health Specialist                EASHD Team Leader
                                                                       Financial
Stephen Hartung             Financial Management Specialist      EAPCO
                                                                       Management
                                                                       Implementation
Betty Hanan                 Consultant                           EASHD
                                                                       Specialist
Amber Willink               Junior Professional Associate        EASHD Health


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                           8                           39.22
  FY03                                          39                          302.16
  FY04                                           8                           48.95
                            Total:              55                          390.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                          12                           96.73
  FY05                                          15                           92.79
  FY06                                          17                           91.03
  FY07                                          13                          109.66
  FY08                                          17                           89.27
  FY09                                                                        0.00
                            Total:              74                          479.48


                                              36
Annex 5.     Beneficiary Survey Results

      No beneficiary survey was conducted.




                                          37
Annex 6.    Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

      No stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                        38
Annex 7.       Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A.     Methodology

        A review of Internal Project Reports was undertaken against Project inputs, activities
and outputs. Questionnaires were developed and adapted by component which were
distributed to relevant Ministry of Health staff, donors and stakeholders, 7 days prior to the
author's arrival in country.

        Hon. Dr. Viliami Tangi, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health opened a
series of half day workshops which were organized by component with appropriate Ministry
of Health staff participating. One on one interviews were undertaken with all the
development partners in country (AusAID, NZAID, Peoples Republic of China, JICA,
WHO).

B.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

        The health sector in Tonga has undergone several reforms, many of them supported by
AusAID. A number of these were specifically directed at improving the functioning of the
Vaiola Hospital and the health system in general. The first phase of the AusAID supported
Project concentrated on strategic planning, general management reform, and human resource
management including workforce planning, financial management and information management.
The second phase concentrated on: (i) extending these activities from senior to middle
management, hospital management, public health management, pharmaceuticals and supplies
inventory management, (ii) preparing a services plan for the sector, (iii) developing a master plan
overview for the Vaiola Hospital, and (iv) examining issues of data flow and logistics
management in several areas of the hospital and health system, including reviews of patient
registration, disease notification and vital registration. Computer software packages for financial
and human resource management were also been introduced in the MOH. Phase III focused on
building human resources and health management efforts. WHO has also provided assistance for
priority public health programs (rubella vaccine campaigns, etc.) and technical assistance in
health legislation and waste management and for the preparation of clinical guidelines for NCD
prevention and control. In addition, several donors including AusAID, WHO, Secretariat of the
Pacific Community (SPC), have been involved in primary prevention of NCDs.

        The Tonga Health Sector Support Project was to build on these efforts and focus on key
priority issues, which remain unaddressed. The Project was to support three areas of the
Government's reform program, namely: (i) strengthening health care financing, (ii) strengthening
health information systems, (iii) improving the administrative, functional and technical quality of
the Vaiola Hospital, and (iv) supporting management, coordination and support activities.

       Health reforms in Tonga at the time of the design of the Project aimed at creating a health
system, which responded effectively to the health needs of the population by providing the



                                              39
appropriate range and level of high quality services. The specific objective of the Project was to
support health reform in the Kingdom of Tonga by improving the capacity of the Ministry of
Health to develop and implement health financing policy; and collect, manage and use health
information and improving the administrative, functional and technical quality of the Vaiola
Hospital.

C.       Context at Appraisal

        The Kingdom of Tonga had a population of 100,670, with a high literacy rate of 99%and
a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of over US$1,500. The UNDP Human
Development Index ranked Tonga as sixth among the fourteen Pacific Islands States and as 107
globally, grouping it with countries such as Honduras, Egypt, Guatemala, and Gabon. The fiscal
situation in the country was deteriorating with real GDP growth declining to around 0.8% in
2000/01 after having risen to around 5.9% in 1999/2000. Although poverty was not considered a
problem (its human Poverty Index was low at 5.2), Tonga was vulnerable to external economic
shocks and natural disasters, which threatened the sustainability of livelihood. Urbanization was
on the increase -- around two thirds of the population in Tongatapu (the most populous island)
lived in the capital Nuku'alofa, compared to one third the population in 1986.

        The Kingdom had developed an outline for a public sector reform program, under the
Economic and Public Sector Reform Program (SPSRP), which was approved in December 1999
and was supported by the Asian Development Bank, NZAID and AusAID. The implementation
of the Economic and Public Sector Reform Project was to focus on policies to promote private
sector leadership in economic growth, strengthen public sector management, augment the
efficiency of the financial sector and service delivery, and improve social security. Health was
recognized as a core function of the government in this reform program.

         Health Sector priorities and Government Strategy:

        The Ministry of Health developed a corporate plan as a "major step forward to the
government's new strategic approach to economic and social development planning" (Ministry
of Health, Kingdom of Tonga, Corporate Plan 2001/02 ­ 2003/04). The plan identified three
strategic results areas: "to achieve improvements in the health status of the nation by increased
responsiveness to the country's health needs; to achieve improvements in health prevention
programs at all level; and to develop strategies to safeguard the health of the Nation with regards
to development". The MOH priorities were clearly outlined in the report Tonga's Health 2000.
The priorities areas for attention were divided into two categories (i) management priorities areas
and (ii) health priorities areas. The management priority areas included:

     ·   improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of the health system
     ·   improving and strengthening work force management
     ·   providing the Tonga Health system with financial management system at a time when the
         government is trying to contain costs and increase revenues
     ·   providing the Tonga health system with improved facilities and equipment and ensuring
         their maintenance
     ·   strengthening informed decision making through the provision of appropriate information


                                              40
         management

         The health priority areas include:

     ·   diabetes and heart diseases
     ·   injuries and emergencies care
     ·   pharmacy services
     ·   mental health
     ·   dental decay
     ·   cancer

         Project rationale:

        While Tonga had made substantial achievements in health status, it was recognized that
to sustain these achievement during a period of fiscal restraint would require health financing
reforms that advocate cost containment and identify alternative sources of financing. Such
reforms were to be supported under the Project. The existing hospital was in poor condition, had
poor configuration and insufficient space to meet the changed health care needs of the
population. The hospital was designed with the capacity to meet demands of outbreaks of
infectious diseases, but Tonga had entered a stage of development where non-communicable
diseases were the major public health and it also had acute care challenges. The Vaiola Hospital
needed to be redeveloped to meet these service requirements.


D.       Main Benefits and Beneficiaries

       The Project was to provide two major benefits: (i) improvements in the quality of
affordable health services for the whole Tonga population, including women and vulnerable
groups, and (ii) increase technical and human resource capacity of MOH.

        The redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital was to improve the quality of care and respond
to public concerns about poor amenities. In addition, provision of new working environment for
hospital staff was also to be the catalyst to reform and refine clinical and administrative practices
and processes and thus improve the efficiency and effectiveness of health service delivery as
well as health outcomes. The improvement of MOH capacity for timely collection, collation and
analysis of health information was to make the health sector more responsive to health needs. It
was also to develop a community based non-communicable disease prevention program to
improve primary and secondary prevention of diseases like diabetes and hypertension. The
population was also to benefit from the development of appropriate health policies.

       The Project targeted the following: (i) general population, the entire population of Tonga
was to benefit from the policy reforms, improvements in NCD management and the
redevelopment of the Vaiola Hospital, (ii) disadvantaged and vulnerable population, although
the Project did not specifically target the poor, but systems were to be established to ensure that
disadvantaged groups (such as those residing in the swamps squatter settlements of Nuku' alofa
and Pangai), women and those vulnerable to economic shocks and natural disaster share in the


                                               41
Project benefits. The Project was to monitor that the implementation of policies developed do
not adversely impact them, (iii) MOH staff, the Project was to build the capacity of staff to
review, develop, and implement policies, collect, collate and analyze health information, and
plan, manage and monitor implementation of capital investments Projects in the sector, (iv) Non-
governmental Organization (NGO) and Private Sector, the Project was to encourage increased
participation of NGOs and the private sector in health sector policy development, provision and
financing.

E.     Original Components

       The Project supported the following components.

        Component A. Strengthening Health Care Financing: This component was to support
the review, development, and implementation of policies, which defined the funding and overall
allocation of resources to health services. In particular, it was to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Health to: (i) plan resource needs for the health sector; (ii) finance primary health
care and preventive services; and (iii) develop options to finance health services, and pilot and
evaluate the preferred option before full implementation. These were to be achieved through
technical support, training studies and extensive consultation with stake holders and
beneficiaries.

      Component B. Improving Health Information Management:                   This component
comprised three sub-components: (i) strengthening the information culture, (ii) developing and
implementing a Hospital Information System at Vaiola Hospital, and (iii) information
management for NCD prevention and control.

        B.1: Strengthening the information culture in the MOH: This sub-component was to
include: (i) upgrading the information infrastructure and improving analytical skills in the Health
Information Centre; (ii) developing improved procedures for the collection, management and use
of information throughout the Ministry of Health, including the development and adoption of
standardized definitions (health data dictionary); (iii) ensuring consistent use of information
within the Ministry of Health to review performance and inform decision-making; (iv) improving
the collection and monitoring systems for public health data, and (v) improving community -
based reporting of health data. This was to be achieved through long and short-term technical
support, training, and purchase of computer equipment and software for the Health Information
Center.

        B.2: Developing and implementing a Hospital Information System for Vaiola. This was a
two step process. In the first phase, the sub-component was to finance technical assistance,
training to build capacity and to achieve improvements in the collection, storage and use of
medical records; improvements in information processes elsewhere in the hospital, e.g. for
patient admissions, transfers and discharges; in the second phase, the sub-component was to
finance the purchase and installation of computerized hospital information system that were
appropriate to the capacity and requirements of the hospital and were not unduly elaborate or
costly. The detailed design was to be informed by wide consultation with Ministry of Health
staff and based on an options paper that was to provide a range of choices from which the


                                              42
Ministry of Health was to choose. These in turn, were to be linked to the redevelopment of the
hospital.

        B.3: Information management for NCD prevention and control. This sub-component was
to finance technical assistance, survey, training in NCD management and equipment for pilot
project of community-based identification and treatment for diabetes and hypertension to provide
health officers and public health nurses with diagnostic tools and clinical guidelines to identify
and manage uncomplicated cases in the community and referral system to ensure these cases
were appropriately referred for further review at Vaiola Hospital.

       Component C. Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital: The objective's of this
component was to improve the administrative, technical and functional efficiency of Vaiola
Hospital by investing in infrastructure redevelopment and management strengthening. This
component focused on three areas: (i) redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital, (ii) improving hospital
management, and (iii) developing a health care waste management system.

        C.1: Redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital. The Project was to finance a combination of
construction and rehabilitation on the existing Vaiola Hospital site. This was to be based on a
preferred option for hospital design that was approved by His Majesty's Cabinet in May, 2002.
A master plan for hospital redevelopment was under preparation and was to be finalized early in
Project implementation. The provision of a laddered increase in the maintenance budget for
Vaiola Hospital was included as a key covenant of the Project

        C.2: Improving hospital management. The Project through technical assistance and
training support was to strengthen hospital management at Vaiola through: (a) management
coaching for senior and middle managers; and (b) the development and implementation of key
management and human resource policies.

        C.3: Development of health care waste management system. This sub-component was to
finance improvements in health care waste management to strengthen the policy framework for
health care waste management by providing technical assistance for the preparation of a national
health care waste management policy and health care waste management plan. It was also to
finance in-service and external training for all health care staff involved in waste segregation and
waste management and disposal. In addition, the Project was to procure items such as a new
waste water treatment facility at the Vaiola Hospital and waste disposal containers and a vehicle
for disposal of hazardous waste.

        Component D. Project Management and Coordination: This component included the
operation of the Project Management Unit (PMU) to provide Project support functions, including
day-to-day management, monitoring and coordination of Project activities among implementing
units, procurement, accounting, disbursement and financial management, and liaising with and
reporting to the Project Director. The Project funded project management consultants, travel,
training, annual audits of the accounts and financial statement relating to the Project.

F.     Revised Components

       There were no revised components.


                                              43
G.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design and Operational Experience

       The objective of the Project was to assist the Kingdom of Tonga in improving the
performance of its health sector by supporting selected reforms to said health sector,
including: (i) the development and implementation of appropriate health financing policies,
and health information systems; and (ii) the improvement of the administrative, functional
and technical quality of health facilities.

H.     Assessment of Achievements and Development Objective and Outputs

Component A. Strengthening Health Care Financing: (US$0.70 million)

        This component's implementation is considered satisfactory in terms of creating a
strengthened policy framework in health care financing, resource allocation and health
services monitoring. Outstanding activities under this component are NHA Report for
2007/08, which is to be completed by the end of 2009. The planned incorporation of the
Household Survey as part of a National Survey undertaken by the Statistics Department did
not occur. A consultant was recruited to develop the Questionnaire and Manual for
conducting and analyzing the survey data and the Ministry shall be responsible for funding
the survey. The consultant recruited, however, was unable to complete the Terms of
Reference due to ill health. The Ministry of Health plans to conduct the Household survey
by the end of 2009. The policy paper on the Use of Public Facilities by Private Providers
was finalized by April 2009. A further initiative of conducting exit surveys on the
implementation of the new user fees would be conducted monthly and the first round took
place in April 2009.

        A.1 Strengthening the capacity of MOH to plan resources needs for the health
sector. The NHA team recognized the NHA tool; the methodology is a new concept in the
Kingdom and it took some time for staff to familiarize themselves with the techniques and
appreciate, particularly its indisputable value in been evidence based. Two NHA reports
were prepared (2001/2002 and 2003/2004) with technical assistance support. The NHA team
was able to prepare the 2005/2006 without technical assistance support and demonstrated
tangible returns in the investment in capacity building in overseas and in country training
under the guidance of the Consultant. The challenge for the Ministry is to embed this
process as it does with the Annual Report and Budget preparation responsibilities.

       A.2 Strengthening the role of the MOH in financing primary health care and
preventive services. The Resource Allocation Manual was completed and the NHA team
recognizes the availability of this tool now as significant in facilitating improved budget
preparation as well as a means of improving/increasing funds assigned to public health
services and NCD related activities.




                                            44
        A.3 Developing options to finance health services (including overseas treatment,
user fees and health insurance) and implementing the preferred option. As documented in
the Project's various Aide Memoires most of the work in Component A related to activities
in this sub-component. The Project supported the development of a health care financing
options paper, which was submitted to Cabinet in December 2005 and Cabinet subsequently
approved both the short and long options presented: (i) user fees were to be introduced to
coincide with the completion of infrastructure development at Vaiola Hospital and (ii) social
health insurance for the civil service and formal sector are to be pursued on a long-term
basis. To progress matters various consultants were engaged to assess and report on equity
considerations, user fees development and implementation, legal implications and a
determination of cost of services and review of current fee schedules. The User Fee Policy
was approved by Cabinet in October 2008 and user fees were subsequently introduced in
February 2009.

Component B. Improving Health Information Management: (US$1.25 million)

       This component was completed most satisfactorily whereby all activities were
implemented. The Notifiable Diseases and Non Communicable Diseases activities were not
as satisfactory, due to the high turn over of clinical staff in both the Non
Communicable/Diabetic Centre and Communicable Disease sections. Upon introduction of
the Hospital Information Systems, it is anticipated the timely availability of both clinical and
management data/information for informed decision making for patient management and
treatment and managerial purposes. The Hospital Information Systems started operating in
March 2009. The pilot activities for monitoring diabetic patients in the 3 health centers have
been completed, however evaluation of these results are yet to be undertaken.

        B.1 Strengthening the information culture in the MOH. The planned activities
under this sub-component were completed and resulted in significant capacity building
within the Health Information, Information Technology and Medical Records Sections of the
Health Planning and Information Division. The following activities were completed: (i)
regular reporting from Health Centers and Outer Island Hospitals, (ii) ICD-10 Coding using
version 4, (iii) health website, (iv) digitization of Annual Report, and (v) e-Library, (vi)
internet connection to Outer Islands.

       B.2 Developing and implementing a Hospital Information System for Vaiola
Hospital. Final preparations are underway between the vendor and the Ministry for the HIS
to "Go Live" in March 2009, a delay of 3 months from the original planned date. Two
additions to the HIS scope was achieved at no costs, (i) the inclusion of the outer island
hospital and Health Centers and (ii) the combination of the Patient Management and Clinical
Management System whereby radiology and laboratory results will be available.

       B.3 Information management for NCD prevention and control. During the Mid-
Term Review in June/July 2006 no activity under this sub-component was reported as the
Ministry was comfortable with the support received from other development partners
regarding NCD activities.



                                              45
       Agreement was subsequently reached on a proposal whereby the objective was to
improve community based collection and management of diabetes, which focused on three
health centers. Emphasis was to be afforded to staff training, patient education and
community support, provision of supplies, and support for patient follow up.

Component C. Improving the Quality of Vaiola Hospital: (US$9.56 million)

         The Ministry acknowledges this as the flagship component of the Project and reflects
the most tangible outputs through the construction of state of the art hospital inpatient
facilities to serve the population of Tonga for the next 25-30 years. The Preventive
Maintenance Plan developed requires immediate implementation and hospital cleaning,
security and maintenance of hospital grounds have been outsourced. To ensure that proper
disposal of sharps and clinical waste is undertaken, approval has been obtained to use surplus
funds from the Project to procure a medical waste autoclave and delivery is expected by June
2009.

       C.1 Redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital. The Master Plan for the Redevelopment of
Vaiola Hospital consists of the following components:


Package A    Psychiatric ward and Laundry/Kitchen with temporary fit out for Isolation
             Ward, Diabetic Clinic and Physiotherapy). and B2 (Medical Ward, Pediatrics
             and Isolation Ward
Package      Clinical Service Building; 3 Operating Theatres, Recovery, ICU, CSSD, X-
B1           ray, Pathology, Surgical and Obstetrics Wards including 6 delivery suites,
             the Waste Treatment Plant as well as equipping these facilities
Package      Two storey building housing Pediatric, Medical and Isolation wards,
B2           circulation block, Chapel and ramp, medical gas facility, staff car park,
             equipment for all 3 wards and the medical gas facility
Package C    Demolition of current 3storey Block and reconstruction of 2storey Main
             Building for Hospital Administration, Accident and Emergency and
             Outpatient
Package D    Renovation of existing Pathology Building and construction of Canteen
Package E    Renovation of existing U shaped Building for Public Health, Pharmacy,
             Diabetic Clinic and construction of a new Dental Building
Package F    Demolition of existing Nursing Education and construction of new Nursing
             Education Building and new Mortuary, equipping the Laundry and Kitchen
              constructed under Package A and renovation of facilities for Maintenance and
              general stores.

       The Project funded Package A and B2 and Package B1 was constructed through
Grant Aid from the Government of Japan. A Design Team from JICA visited Tonga in
March to undertake the design of Packages C to F to be funded also under Grant Aid from
the Government of Japan.




                                             46
       C.2 - Improving hospital management. Building on the support provided through
the AusAID funded Health Sector Planning and Management Project, the Ministry through
technical support and training, financed ongoing efforts to strengthen hospital management at
Vaiola Hospital through: (a) training activities and management coaching for senior and
middle managers; and (b) the development and implementation of key management and
human resource policies at the hospital. Interventions to improve the efficiency of the
hospital will also be identified and implemented, including options such as contracting out
other services and pursuing revenue generation opportunities. Hospital security, cleaning
and maintenance of hospital grounds have been outsourced already.

        C.3 Development of health care waste management system. Under this sub-
component, the Ministry received technical assistance to strengthen the policy framework for
waste management. Waste liners, containers for clinical waste and sharps for Vaiola
Hospital, and a vehicle for transportation of waste were procured. Staff involved in waste
management activities received in service and external training. This sub-component
brought early success to the Ministry with proper segregation of sharps, general and hospital
waste at Vaiola Hospital. This success resulted in the same process introduced for the 7
health centers in Tongatapu. These same practices were rolled out in the 3 outer island
hospitals in Vava'u, Ha'apai and `Eua respectively.

Component D. Project Management and Coordination: (US$0.87 million)

        The activities under this component were implemented most satisfactorily. Turn over
in the Procurement Officer (4), Accountant (2), Admin Assistant (2) occurred. However, this
caused minimal disruptions with the implementation of activities.

I.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

        There were no major factors affecting the implementation and outcome of the Project.
There were operational delays with the procurement of consultants, goods and services,
signing of Withdrawal Applications, turnover of both Ministry and Bank staff, delay in
receiving No Objection Letters from the Bank and so forth, which were managed and
handled effectively through collaboration, patience and understanding.

J.     Evaluation of Project Sustainability

Component A

         The Ministry is committed to progressing the health care financing activities achieved
to date and has secured support from WHO to commence work on ascertaining the feasibility
of introducing social health insurance in Tonga. The National Health Accounts team has
successfully prepared the 2005/2006 NHA Report without technical assistance and
demonstrates capacity building has been successful. However, to cover for staff mobility, it
is critical that the Ministry ensures the current NHA team undertakes to train other staff.
Failure to undertake skills transfer will affect sustainability of progress made to date. The
Ministry's ability to finance health services will continue to be a challenge and the


                                              47
introduction of user fees and the possible retention by health of the revenue is a step in the
right direction towards alleviating some, but not all of the financial pressure the Ministry of
Health faces in financing health services.

       The imbalance between the share of health's budget between curative and preventive
services will continue and anticipate the RAM tool is a means of continuing to raise
awareness and develop strategies to address this imbalance.

Component B

         There has been an increase in awareness across the Ministry with regard to health
information and its value both as a clinical and management tool. The Minister of Health's
Annual Report has been revised with emphasis on analysis of health information, births and
deaths notifications processes have been initiated, health data dictionary has been developed,
medical records coding training and capacity building of health information staff have been
achieved. The challenge now is to transfer the skills acquired to the next level of staff and
institutionalize the new practices introduced. Support for ongoing training of medical
records and health information staff must be pursued to ensure existing staff skills are built
upon.

        The Ministry has received significant investment in training across health
information, medical records and IT in preparation for the implementation of the Hospital
Information System for Vaiola Hospital. The Ministry has secured government financial
support to cover for ongoing maintenance costs and license fees. The Ministry will receive
financial support from WHO through its biannual regular budget to contribute towards the
HIS operations. Through its Twinning Program with St John of God Hospital, in Ballarat,
Australia, staff will receive support and training as St John of God uses a similar HIS
package. During the visit it became evident non license software was installed on the
network, which is a cause for concern given the expenses incurred in procuring license
software for the Ministry's IT platform. This is further compounded by the installation of
computer games and accessibility to social networking sites (Bebo, Facebook, Trixter, etc
and Voice Over Internet Protocol programs that allow phone calls been made through the
internet) during work hours. This results in the network been congested with slow
connectivity and compromises the fundamental purpose for investing in IT infrastructure for
use by the Ministry. This indicates the absence of an IT Policy been in place to guide and
drive developments or its lack of enforcement.

        The health information team had limited HIS technical knowledge and expertise to be
able to confidently negotiate with the vendor on detail specifications and functionality of the
proposed solution. The inability of the consultants engaged by the Project to be present
during these negotiations became evident and must be ensured in future undertakings. Upon
identifying areas that need improvement the vendor demonstrated resistance and inflexibility
with incorporating these identified changes. There is an acute shortage of IT skills in country
and its imperative skills transfer takes place to the next level of staff.




                                              48
Component C

         This component received the largest share of the credit primarily for the construction
of Package A and B2 of the Master Plan for the Redevelopment of Vaiola Hospital.
Recognizing this significant investment, the Development Credit Agreement covenant
ensured the Government of Tonga assigns funding to ensure the facilities are maintained. An
Estate Management Policy was developed and a Preventive Maintenance Plan to guide the
facilities maintenance. The Ministry of Works representative raised legitimate concerns that
the Preventive Maintenance Plan has either not been activated or is poorly managed in light
of recent remedial work undertaken that should normally have been identified during routine
services (electrical, plumbing, carpentry, oxygen plant) rounds.

         There is a disconnect between the Ministry of Health and Vaiola Hospital
management with regard to the funds earmarked through the Development Credit Agreement
for maintenance of Vaiola Hospital. As a way forward, Vaiola Hospital management must as
a matter of urgency, revive the Preventive Maintenance Plan, which in turn should drive
utilization of the maintenance fund. This would be complemented with an update of a
proposed assignment/allocation of the maintenance fund developed by the PMU by services
(electrical, plumbing, carpentry, oxygen plant etc). It would also be prudent to review and
evaluate how the Ministry has utilized the maintenance fund since it was made available
upon the Credit becoming effective.

Component D

        The skills and expertise acquired by the PMU have been significant and a means of
retaining this capacity and corporate knowledge resulted in the Ministry of Health creating
civil service positions to absorb these staff. The remunerations offered are in accordance
with civil service salaries and may or may not be a hindering factor in the PMU staff interest
in applying and accepting the employment offer for these positions. Critical to the Project's
sustainability is the proper transfer of the assets registry, Project files, documents, reports,
information and assets to ensure the Ministry is able to access and follow matters up once the
Project closes.

K.     Evaluation of the Bank and Borrower (MOH, MOF, PMU) Performance

Ministry of Health

        The Ministry of Health's performance is considered most satisfactory in light of the
fact it had no prior experience with managing World Bank-financed projects. The
exceptional leadership of the Minister of Health in driving the Project from its inception
through to implementation and now closing was acknowledged by all consulted as a key
factor with the Projects progress and success. This leadership was supported by the Director
of Health and Ministry's executive, with 4 of the 6 Heads of Divisions playing key roles
across the Projects 4 components. Where staffs were involved with planning and developing
Project activities resulted in stability and strong ownership during the implementation phase.
The political and social environment in country cannot be underestimated, the impact of the


                                              49
civil servants strike in 2005 and the riots in 2006 were not anticipated, but posed potential
threats to the Projects implementation.

Ministry of Finance

        The Ministry of Finance's performance during the Project preparatory Grant and the
Credit has been most satisfactory. The Minister of Finance and his staff provided efficient
and valuable guidance during the early stages of the Grant and Credit given the Ministry's
limited experience with World Bank procedures and guidelines.

Project Management Unit

        The PMU model for managing the Project was considered most appropriate and
effective in supporting the Ministry with implementing the Project's activities,
communicating with the Bank and liaising with the Ministry of Finance and other Project
stakeholders.

Bank

       The Banks performance despite the high turnover of the Team Leader, Procurement
Specialist, and Financial Management Specialist is considered most satisfactory. The
biannual supervision missions and Mid-Term Review are key tools to monitoring Project
progress.

L.     Lessons Learned and Description of the proposed arrangements for future
operation of the Project

       Provided below is a summary of comments made by respondents during the
consultations.

   ·   Strong ministerial leadership and executive support are key factors to Project success
       and the involvement of staff with the planning and subsequent implementation proved
       essential ingredients to the Project's success as demonstrated in the health care
       financing and health information teams.

   ·   On the other hand there was high turnover of Ministry of Health assigned to the civil
       works component, which resulted in the Estate Management Policy's implementation
       falling behind schedule.

   ·   The Working Groups and Committees established across the 3 components were key
       platforms for staff and the PMU to track Project activities as well as addressing any
       matters inhibiting progress.

   ·   Seeking support from internal stakeholders is also critical as demonstrated with the
       support received from the Chief Nursing Officer upon the initial failure to introduce
       the proposed birth registration process.


                                             50
·   Training of staff was a key incentive to maintain commitment, interest and
    involvement with the Project and is considered an integral activity in future projects.

·   Project design must be flexible to fund legitimate unplanned activities, the
    procurement of consultants for IT Mentor and Equity Considerations for User Fees
    were examples. It should be noted these 2 requests occurred early in the Project and
    there was room and opportunity to accommodate such. If these requests were
    identified later in the Project's implementation where funds were committed the
    likelihood of these consultants being funded would be very low.

·   In the light of the latter scenario above, legitimate requests for additional input or
    goods could be accommodated through the inclusion of a contingency allocation
    based on an agreed formula. Robust criteria to access the contingency allocation
    must be developed to ensure it is used for genuine, unplanned Project-related
    activities.

·   Staff involvement in the procurement of consultants, training goods and service
    ensures transparency, ownership and enables capacity building where staff acquired
    new skills, such as Terms of Reference and specification development, assessment
    and evaluation of candidates and bids.

·   There were external events beyond the Project's control such as the civil servants
    strike in 2005 and the riots in 2006, which has the potential to affect the Project's
    implementation. The challenge is to set in place strategies to minimize the effects
    these events will have on the Project.

·   In developing Terms of References for consultants, a standard requirement must be
    an explicit process for tangible skill transfer from the consultant to the local
    counterpart(s). During the procurement process, it is essential to gauge consultants
    past experience in being flexible and ability to adapt to local conditions.

·   The key to the success of the revised NCD activities lie with the willingness of the
    community to be involved, the support and commitment of staff in the piloted health
    centers and the availability of the required supplies and equipment.

·   The PMU model for project management was unanimously endorsed as appropriate
    and effective in providing support to the Ministry with implementing Project
    activities. In terms of retaining capacity building given the skills acquired by the
    PMU team, it is critical these staff are absorbed by the Ministry. The Project Director
    ideally should be a member of the executive and participates in the Ministry's highest
    decision making body. This will ensure any issues affecting Project implementation
    can be presented and resolved.

·   The Banks biannual supervision missions and Mid-term Review are important events
    to ensure project implementation is monitored and managed accordingly. Wherever
    possible, it is important to have continuity in the members of the Bank team from the


                                          51
    outset. The consistency of the Senior ICT Policy Specialist as a member of the Banks
    team during planning and implementation ensured continuity of support and full
    understanding of the environment activities were pursued. The consequence of the
    frequent turnover of Bank staff was that new members were often not fully aware of
    previous reviews and outcomes, and was further compounded with some members
    possessing limited knowledge of the local context in which the activities were
    implemented.

·   HIS and IT consultants engaged by the Project must be present during negotiations
    with HIS software vendors to ensure the Ministry and PMU receive expert technical
    advice to ensure the solution offered by the vendor reflects the specifications and
    functionality tendered.

·   The Bank's missions Aide Memoires are strong leverage in seeking government and
    donor support for additional staffing and financial needs identified during the
    implementation of Project activities.

·   It is imperative the Ministry immediately commission facilities once handed over by
    the Contractor as this will allow full use of the 12-month Defect Liability Period. The
    delayed commissioning of Package B1 (recognizing it was not part of the Project)
    resulted in defects been identified late and were not rectified as satisfactorily, given
    the reduced defect liability period.

·   Staff familiarization with the buildings and equipment is imperative thus adequate
    planning for this process to be undertaken is strongly recommended.

·   The revival of the Preventive Maintenance Plan and delegation of management of the
    Development Credit Agreement covenant in relation to the maintenance funds to
    Vaiola Hospital maintenance must be implemented as a matter of priority.

·   It is important that biomedical staff are familiar with maintenance and repair of
    equipment purchased. Suppliers must have agents/outlets in the region to ensure
    efficient provision of spare parts. Training must also be provided for biomedical and
    nursing staff that will use the equipment.

·   The efficient implementation of the health care waste segregation and disposal
    program was attributed to the adequate provision of supplies and consumables (waste
    liners, color-coded containers for general, sharps, hospital waste, personal protective
    equipment, and transport). The Ministry must now ensure funding is earmarked to
    procure these supplies to ensure this initiative is sustained.

·   The Project's progress and successes were not promoted aggressively enough within
    the Ministry, government and the general public, thus proposals included a notice
    board to post activities, newsletters, radio and television programs to create greater
    public awareness.



                                          52
M.     Additional Information

Donor Consultation

       AusAID, NZAID, JICA, WHO, and the Republic of China were consulted during the
preparation of this report. Provided below is summary of the salient issues discussed.

        All donors consulted were impressed with the inpatient facilities constructed and
congratulated the Ministry with its vision and successful completion of these facilities. The
donors had peripheral involvement and no intimate knowledge of other Project activities.
The high turnover of health professionals particularly among doctors, nurses and more
recently executives were raised as a major concern by all the donors. AusAID is currently
funding 2 surgeons through its PACTAM program and are finalizing recruitment of an
Anesthetist through the same program to provide much need support to the sole Anesthetist
at Vaiola Hospital.

        All donors were interested and or concerned with the Ministry's ability to provide
adequate maintenance for the new facilities and were satisfied when the Development Credit
Agreement covenant related to maintenance was explained. JICA has as vested interest in
the facilities maintenance and is in the process of dispatching a Senior Volunteer as Hospital
Infrastructure Manager to support the Ministry in this area.

       JICA was further concerned with the Ministry's ability to cover electricity costs
consumed by the new facilities and has taken this into account during the design team visit in
March 2009 for the design of Package C-F of the Master Plan to be funded under Grant Aid
from the Government of Japan. China has made commitments to invest in the health sector
through the construction of 2 Super Health Centers in Mu'a and Vaini on Tongatapu and a
Public Health Building at Prince Ngu Hospital in Vava'u.

         Recognizing the success and momentum generated through the Project's activities,
WHO will provide support for the Hospital Information System license fees, the feasibility
study for introducing social health insurance in Tonga, and progressing support to NCD
activities through the health promoting churches initiative. AusAID has similar intentions
and wishes to build on the NCD activities, human resource development and will be
consulting the Ministry of Health to identify priorities for funding, leading up the annual
High Level Consultations. NZAID and WHO both recommend a donors roundtable for
health to ensure support to the health sector is coordinated more effectively.




                                             53
Annex 8.      List of Supporting Documents

   ·   Social Assessment
   ·   Minutes of Appraisal Review Meeting
   ·   Project Appraisal Document
   ·   Development Credit Agreement
   ·   Amendments to Credit Agreement
   ·   Quality Enhancement Review Report
   ·   Quality at Entry Report
   ·   Aide Memoires
   ·   Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs)
   ·   Progress Reports
   ·   A sustainable health care financing system for Tonga: Issues and Options
   ·   Ministry of Health Annual Reports 2006 and 2007
   ·   National Health Accounts (2001-02, 2003-04, 2005-06)
   ·   Various Policy Papers on health financing options
   ·   NCD in Pacific Island countries ­ disease burden, economic cost and policy options
   ·   Financing options for health sector ­ World Bank Note
   ·   AusAID Implementation Completion Report of its project




                                            54
MAP




      55
