Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7154 
–
TUN 
 
Guarantee Agreement 
 
(Third Municipal Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 9, 2003  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7154 
–
TUN 
 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des 
Collectivités Locales (CPSCL) (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and CPSCL (the Loan Agreement), have requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a 
loan in the amount of eighty million one hundred thousand euros (Eur 80,100,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that: 
(i) the Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the 
loan as provided in this Agreement; and (ii) the Guarantor agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement will be made available to the Guarantor on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Guarantee 
 
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, 
the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety 
merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges 
on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in 
the Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of Part B of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
environmental, financial, municipal and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall carry 
out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03 (a) The Guarantor shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Guarantee Agreement 
and Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Guarantor shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
Page  5
-
3
-
between the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Guarantor and the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Guarantor of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take all necessary measures in conformity with 
its legislation and satisfactory to the Bank for: 
 
(a) 
the transformation, by December 31, 2006, of the Borrower into a joint 
stock company in accordance with the findings and recommendations of the mid-term 
review of the Project required under paragraph C.1(d) of Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
not later than June 30, 2006, enlarging the eligibility for loans from the 
Borrower to entities, other than Municipalities, intervening in the financing of local 
development projects; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 31, 2005, enabling the Borrower to freely 
determine its interest rates for loans not falling under PIC (Programme
d’Investissement 
Communal
); 
 
(d) 
not later than December 31, 2006, preparing and submitting to its 
Parliament for enactment, draft legislation to amend the Municipal Legal Code No. 75-33 
of May 14, 1975, as amended, with a view to improving municipal management; 
 
(e) 
not later than December 31, 2006, improving the legal and regulatory 
framework for local taxation with a view to strengthening financial resource mobilization 
of the Municipalities; and 
Page  6
-
4
-
(f) 
not later than December 31, 2005, increasing in a sustainable manner the 
funds collected under the FCCL.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Guarantor shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall at all times take all adequate actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including maintaining the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage 
Arrangement, to permit the Borrower to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the Dinar) used in its 
operations under the Project. 
 
Section 4.03. The Guarantor agrees, as long as it exercises control over the 
setting of interest rates charged by the Borrower, to establish rates which would allow the 
Borrower, under conditions of efficient operation, to meet its financial obligations and 
covenants under the Loan Agreement.
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Guarantor thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Guarantor 
thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and International Cooperation is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
1001 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
18060 
  216-71-799-069 
 
216-71-351-666  
 
Page  8
-
6
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By 
/s/ Hatem Atallah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Jean-Louis 
Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
The Guarantor shall establish six (6) months after the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, and maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project: (i) a 
steering committee composed of high level civil servants representing MOI, the Ministry 
of Finance, the Ministry of Development and International Cooperation and the 
Borrower, to guide the overall policy orientation of the Project; and (ii) a technical 
committee composed of representatives of MOI, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
Development and International Cooperation and the Borrower, in charge of supervising 
the implementation of the Project and monitoring the implementation of the restructuring 
and improvement plans of the Municipalities. 
 
2. 
The Guarantor shall maintain DCPDM, throughout the life of the Project, with 
professional staffing in adequate number, whose qualifications and terms of reference 
shall be acceptable to the Bank. DCPDM, which shall be headed by a Project Director, 
shall be responsible for: (i) day-to-day coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the 
implementation of the Project, including the preparation of reports for submission to the 
Bank; (ii) approving annual work programs from the Project Implementing Agencies 
under Part B of the Project; (iii) designing and implementing municipal restructuring and 
improvement plans; and (iv) acting as secretariat to the steering committee and liaison 
between said committee and the Project Implementing Agencies.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause: (a) CNPRCRM to carry out Part B.1 of the Project; 
(b) DGCPL to carry out Parts B.2, B.3 and B.5 of the Project; and (c) DGAR to carry out 
Part B.4 of the Project. 
 
B. 
Monitoring and Evaluation and Reviews
1. 
The Guarantor shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2005, a report integrating: (i) the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the preceding paragraph (a), 
on the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out of Part B of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
Page  11
-
9
-
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph C.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, on the progress achieved by the 
Borrower
 
in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by June 30, 2006, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in the preceding paragraph (b), and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
