                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank



                                                             Report No: ICR00001722




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD-71540)


                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 80.1 MILLION
                           (US$78.4 million equivalent at appraisal)


                                   TO THE
         CAISSE DES PRETS ET DE SOUTIEN DES COLLECTIVITES LOCALES
                WITH THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA AS GUARANTOR


                                      FOR A
                      THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      December 22, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  Currency unit= Euros ( )

                          Exchange rate at appraisal        US$1.00= 0.9787
                          (November 2002)

                          Exchange rate at ICR              US$1.00= 1.0218
                          (December 2010)

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1- December 31

                             ABREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEB    Municipal expense management computerized system (Aide à la Décision Budgétaire)
AFD     French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
ANPE    National Environmental Protection Agency (Agence nationale de protection de
        l'environnement)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAD    Decentralization Training and Support Center (Centre de Formation et d'Appui à la
        Décentralisation)
CNPRCRM National Center for Improvement and Recycling of Regional and Municipal Managers
        (Centre National de Perfectionnement et de Recyclage des Cadres Régionaux et Municipaux)
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CPSCL   Municipal Development Fund (Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des Collectivités Locales)
DGAR    General Directorate for Regional Affairs (Direction Générale des Affaires Régionales)
DGCPL   General Directorate for Municipal Development (Direction Générale des Collectivités
        Locales)
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
FCCL    Municipal Development Transfer (Fonds Commun des Collectivités Locales)
GESCOM  Municipal Participatory Management Program (Programme de Gestion Communale
        Participative)
GoT     Government of Tunisia
GRB     Municipal budget management computerized system (Gestion des Ressources Budgétaires)
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
MG-6    Sixth contract to acquire solid waste collection equipment for all of Tunisian municipalities
        (Marché Groupé 6)
MTR     Mid-Term Review
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
MDP     Municipal Development Project (Projet de Développement Municipal
PIC     Municipal Investment Program (Programme d'Investissement Communal)
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
TCL     Commercial and Industrial Tax (Taxe sur les Etablissements à Caractère Commercial et
        Industriel)
TD    Tunisian dinar
TIB   Tax on Existing Buildings (Taxe sur les Immeubles Bâtis)
TNB   Tax on Vacant Land (Taxe Foncière sur les Terrains Non-Bâtis)




                        Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                      Country Director: Neil Simon M. Gray
                       Sector Manager: Anna Bjerde
                  Project Team Leader: Alexandra Ortiz
                     ICR Team Leader: Alexandra Ortiz
                      ICR main author: Alicia Casalis
 
                                                  TUNISIA

                                  MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT III

                                                CONTENTS


                                                                                                       Page No
DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information.................................................................................... i
B. Key Dates.............................................................................................. i
C. Rating Summary.......................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff..............................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis........................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs..........................................................vi
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................vi
I. Disbursement Graph................................................................................vii

1.   Project context, development objectives, and design ............................................1
2.   Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes ............................................6
3.   Assessment of outcomes ...........................................................................11
4.   Assessment of risk to development outcome ....................................................16
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance ...............................................16
6.   Lessons learned ......................................................................................19
7.   Comments on issues raised by Borrower/Implementing agencies/ Partners ................19

Annex 1.     Project costs and financing ...............................................................20
Annex 2.     Outputs by component .....................................................................21
Annex 3.     Economic and financial analysis .........................................................23
Annex 4.     Bank lending and implementation support/ supervision process .....................25
Annex 5.     Beneficiary survey results .................................................................27
Annex 6.     Stakeholder workshop report and results................................................31
Annex 7.     Summary of Borrower's ICR or comments on draft ICR .............................32
Annex 8.     Comments of cofinanciers and other partners/stakeholders...........................36
Annex 9.     List of supporting documents .............................................................37
Annex 10.    PAD corrigendum...........................................................................38

MAP........................................................................................................43
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          TN-Municipal
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Development III
Project ID:             P074398                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71540
ICR Date:               12/22/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:                 CPSCL
Original Total
                        USD 78.4M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 102.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 78.4M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 CPSCL and Ministry of Interior
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 French Development Agency (AFD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/12/2001     Effectiveness:          06/23/2003           06/23/2003
Appraisal:            07/08/2002     Restructuring(s):                            08/14/2007
Approval:             12/05/2002     Mid-term Review:        04/08/2006           04/08/2006
                                     Closing:                06/30/2008           06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower
                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 30                   25
Other social services                                                 15                   10
Roads and highways                                                    30                   25
Solid waste management                                                                     25
Sub-national government administration                                25                   15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                                       75
Municipal finance                                                     40                   15
Municipal governance and institution building                         40                   10
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Neil Simon M. Gray                   Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Anna M. Bjerde                       Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Alexandra Ortiz                      Charles Henri Malecot
ICR Team Leader:           Alexandra Ortiz
ICR Primary Author:        Alicia B. Casalis


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
[from Project Appraisal Document corrigendum]. (i) To enhance the delivery of basic
municipal services and infrastructure, through improving the financial and institutional


                                                ii
capacity of CPSCL for the provision of funding for municipal investments; and (ii)
strengthening the institutional capacity of local governments and related central
government agencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To enhance the delivery of basic municipal services and infrastructure through: (i) the
financing of priority municipal investments included in the Municipal Investment Plan
(PIC); and (ii) strengthening the financial and institutional capacity of the CPSCL, the
local governments and related central government agencies.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                           Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target    Completion or
                                            documents)           Values     Target Years
                Commitment rate for new municipal projects under the 10th PIC (considered
Indicator 1 :
                committed when there are definitive agreements).
Value
quantitative or 0%                                             82%           86%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2002                                       04/08/2006    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)
                Number of restructuring plans signed between municipalities, central government
Indicator 2 :
                and CPSCL:
Value
quantitative or 0                           82                 104           104
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2002                    01/09/2003         04/08/2006    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Decrease in number of municipalities identified as in difficult financial situation.
Value
quantitative or 132                         75                               120
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/07/2002                    01/09/2003                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target not achieved
achievement)
                Increase in collection of taxes
Indicator 4 : - Average municipal collection rate of TIB
                - % of municipalities collecting the TCL at its base rate
Value
                TIB collection rate: 58% TIB: 70%                            TIB: 72.4%
quantitative or
                TCL: 0%                     TCL: 50%                         TCL: 27.8%
Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved 11/07/2002                  01/09/2003                         12/31/2009
Comments
              TIB target achieved
(incl. %
              TCL indicator improved but target not achieved
achievement)
              Improved living conditions in municipalities as a result of investments:
Indicator 5 : (accessibility, solid waste collection, and local environment).

                                             70% of                           Not measured
Value
                                             municipalities by                (AFD-financed:
quantitative or 0%
                                             the end of the                   impact evaluation
Qualitative)
                                             project.                         pending).
Date achieved     11/07/2002                 01/09/2003                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Increase of local budget ratio to central budget.
Value
quantitative or   2.8%                       3.5%                             4.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                 01/09/2003                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)
                Financial indicators: CPSCL should maintain agreed levels for: return on equity;
Indicator 7 :   debt service coverage; administrative costs to total assets; net margin;
                arrears/incurred: dropped Tunis.
                                           return on
                                                                               return on
                                           equity>5%
                return on equity=1.7%                                          equity=4.8%
                                           debt service
                debt service                                                   debt service
                                           coverage>1.5%
Value           coverage=3.7%                                 arrears/incurre coverage=6.4%
                                           administrative
quantitative or administrative costs to                       d without        administrative costs
                                           costs to total
Qualitative)    total assets=0.6%                             Tunis            to total assets=0.6%
                                           assets<0.9%
                net margin=2.9%                                                net margin=4%
                                           net margin>1.5%
                arrears/incurred=5.9%                                          arrears/incurred
                                           arrears/incurred<5
                                                                               wthout Tunis=6.9%
                                           %
Date achieved 11/07/2002                   01/09/2003         08/14/2007       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        3 out of 5 target values met
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                          Formally
                                          Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                        Revised
                                            approval                             Completion or
                                                        Target Values
                                           documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of GESCOM projects completed.



                                                  iv
Value
(quantitative     0                         40                                55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                01/09/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of landfills constructed with the project
Value
(quantitative     1                         6                                 14
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                01/09/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
                  m2 of recreational areas (public parks) per urban household provided through
Indicator 3 :
                  the project
Value
(quantitative     10 m2                     15 m2                             16.26 m2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                01/09/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     CFAD - Revised strategy and capacity-building program.
Value
                                            Revised/
(quantitative     No strategy                                                 Implemented.
                                            operational.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                01/09/2003                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Kilometers of streets and sidewalks completed with the project
Value
(quantitative     0                                            1,800          1,933
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                                   07/14/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Luminous points (public lighting) provided by the project
Value
(quantitative     0                                            32,300         36,428
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                                   07/14/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)


                                                 v
Indicator 7 :     Kilometers of potable water network provided by the project
Value
(quantitative     0                                                14.7           35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                                       07/14/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Kilometers of drainage and sanitation channels constructed with the project
Value
(quantitative     0                                                84             79
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/07/2002                                       07/14/2008     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Not achieved but difference is only 6%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     02/28/2003           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/30/2003           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     11/07/2003           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.93
  4     04/30/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    11.97
  5     10/25/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    23.31
  6     03/10/2005           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    38.12
  7     07/23/2005           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    46.06
  8     02/02/2006       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             55.77
  9     05/26/2006       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             57.94
 10     12/22/2006       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             65.87
 11     04/24/2007       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             69.13
 12     10/09/2007       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             73.53
 13     03/14/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             76.26
 14     10/06/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             77.93
 15     06/23/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             78.42
 16     11/24/2009       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             78.42
 17     11/18/2010       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            102.39


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring          Board        ISR Ratings at  Amount              Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)            Approved      Restructuring Disbursed at             Key Changes Made




                                                   vi
               PDO Change               Restructuring
                            DO   IP        in USD
                                          millions
                                                        The PDO and components were
                                                        slightly modified to clearly
  08/14/2007       N        MS   MS          71.70      distinguish the project's
                                                        infrastructure goals from the
                                                        institutional goals




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii
 
1. Project context, development objectives, and design


   1.1 Context at Appraisal


   Tunisia is among the most urbanized countries in the Middle East and North Africa
   Region. At the time of appraisal, 66% of the population lived in cities and towns, mainly in
   towns with over 50,000 inhabitants. This number was projected to reach 70% by the year 2020.
   With an urban growth rate of 2.1%1 between 1990 and 2007, the municipalities faced the
   challenge of increased demand to provide and maintain basic services for the growing urban
   population.


   Investments in infrastructure and in basic services were a priority of the Government in
   order to achieve significant progress in poverty reduction and to improve living conditions
   in urban areas. Tunisia has made significant progress in economic and social development as a
   result of the sustainable reform efforts in place since early the 1990s, resulting in excellent
   economic and social indicators such as an increased life expectancy of 72.12 and a reduction in
   poverty rate to 8 percent at the time of appraisal.


   The Tunisian investments in municipal infrastructure and in basic services have been
   implemented through a national intergovernmental plan. The Tunisian Government activities
   in the municipal development sector, which have been supported by the World Bank and other
   international institutions, need to be viewed in the context of a small country of 10.2 million
   inhabitants with a rather centralized system of government. The municipal3 investment priorities
   are set by a unitary led intergovernmental long term planning system which has identified
   priorities for local coverage of basic services. The Tunisian socio-economic development model
   is very much based on this intergovernmental planning system. The Government of Tunisia
   (GoT) established a national strategic plan to achieve equitable regional development, presenting
   the priorities and goals for the nation and for each region; the national planning system is aligned
   with the Presidential medium- to long-term vision program. Financing is extended to local
   authorities through the Municipal Development Fund (Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des
   Collectivités Locales, CPSCL); decentralization has been on the political agenda since the
   nineties, with slow but steady progress. Municipal financial capacity building and managerial
   capacity-building have, however, remained weaknesses.
   Although the municipal development sector had evolved, municipalities were still not well
   equipped to provide the needed increase in infrastructure and services to their growing urban
   population. Their capacities to meet their investment responsibilities and to respond to the
   increased demand for services were, at appraisal, at a relatively early stage of development, and
   needed to be reinforced. Many municipalities were also in a weak financial situation, having


   1
       Population dynamics. World Development Indicators- 2009.
   2
     CAS - June 2004
   3
     Lessons for the Urban Century. Decentralized Infrastructure Finance in the World Bank. W.B.-2008.

                                                                                                         1
difficulties in mobilizing the resources needed to carry out investment, repay debt, and maintain
existing infrastructure.
The General Directorate for Municipal Development (Direction Générale des Collectivités
Locales, DGCPL), the CPSCL, and the Decentralization Training and Support Center
(CNPRCRM/CFAD4), the main agencies of the local governance scheme, needed to be
strengthened, to build up the technical and financial capacity of municipalities. Although the
CPSCL had gained in autonomy, its main role continued to be executing the Municipal
Investment Plans (PICs5) which encompass sub-projects for all 264 municipalities, acting on
behalf of the Ministry of Interior.
In an effort to redistribute expenditure and service responsibilities between the state and
local authorities in the early nineties, the GoT, with World Bank support, initiated a
gradual process of municipal sector reform. This reorganization was intended to provide
municipalities with the necessary resources for them to assume greater roles in financing their
priority investments at the local levels, as a first step of the process of the de-concentration of
responsibilities. The Municipal Development III Project (MDP III) had been developed by the
Government under the Tunisian 10th Economic Development Plan in order to support the IVth
Municipal Investment Plan process (PIC), covering the period 2002-2006. However, MDP III
would continue until the second year of the 11th Economic Development Plan (2007-2011), with
an overlap with the start of Vth PIC.
The World Bank through the 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) clearly identified
the improved delivery/efficiency of infrastructure services as a key element to enhance the
quality of life of Tunisian citizens. With MDP III, the Bank was able to support the
implementation of the long-term strategy of municipal and regional development in Tunisia. The
first operation to directly support local government was the First Municipal Sector Investment
Project (MIP: 1992-1998); followed by the Second Municipal Development Project (MDP II:
1998-2003). MDP III (2003-2010) provided loans and technical assistance through the CPSCL in
order to support the efforts of the GoT in creating the necessary mechanisms necessary to
channel resources to municipalities and to improve municipal infrastructure services.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as approved)
A Project Appraisal Document (PAD) corrigendum (see Annex 10) was submitted to the Board
on June 30, 2009, to correct mistakes in the original appraisal document and to align the PAD
Project Development Objective (PDO) and the PDO which were presented in the Loan
Agreement. The corrigendum gave an exoneration to projects that had this problem. Hence, this
ICR will assess this project based on the accepted PDO: "to enhance the delivery of basic
municipal services and infrastructure through: (i) improving the financial and institutional
capacity of CPSCL for the provision of funding for municipal investments; and (ii) strengthening
the institutional capacity of local governments and related central government agencies."


4
  CNPRCRM (National center for Improvement and Recycling of Regional and Municipal Managers) changed its
name in 2004 to become the CFAD (Decentralization Training and Support Center). The missions of the institutions
remain essentially the same.
5
  PICs are prepared in a highly consultative and participatory way allowing citizens to express their opinions early
on in the process, and coordinating with local and central government agencies to ensure coherence and consistency.

                                                                                                                  2
The key performance indicators would measure: (i) the number of structuring contracts signed
between municipalities, the central government, and CPSCL; (ii) the reduction in the number of
municipalities identified as facing a difficult financial situation; (iii) the increase in collection of
revenues from local taxes and fees; (iv) improved living conditions in municipalities as a result
of investments; and (v) increased local budget ratio to central budget. Financial indicators would
measure CPSCL performance through 5 ratios. Physical indicators would measure: (i) the
increase in recreational areas per urban household; (ii) the increase in the number of controlled
landfills; and (iii) the increase in kilometers of roads and sidewalks. The intermediate results
would measure the number of completed GESCOM projects, the revised CFAD strategy and the
CFAD capacity-building program.

Figure 1. :           PDO definition and review
              2002/2003                                   2007                                       2009

    PDO PAD (11/07/2002) different         PDO remains unchanged in Loan Agreement 6           Bank PAD corrigendum (06/30/2009)
    from PDO in the signed Loan            Amendment (08/14/2007). Components were
    Agreement (01/09/2003)                 redefined.

    The original PDO statement in the      The main part of the PDO remains unchanged         Bank team reported the inconsistency
    Legal Agreement was as follows:        in the Legal Amendment:                            between PDOs in PAD and PDOs in
                                                                                              Legal Agreement and a corrigendum
    "to enhance the delivery of            "to enhance the delivery of basic                  was prepared and submitted to the
    basic municipal services and           municipal services and infrastructure"             Board on June 30th2009.
     infrastructure" through:              through:                                           This action gave an exoneration to
    (i) improving the financial and        (i) financing the priority municipal investments   projects with this problem.
    institutional capacity of CPSCL for    included in the Municipal Investment Plan
    the provision of funding for           (PIC); and                                         Hence this ICR assesses this project
    municipal investments; and             (ii) strengthening the financial and               based on the accepted PDO:
    (ii) strengthening                     institutional capacity of the CPSCL, the local     "to enhance the delivery of basic
     the institutional capacity of local   governments, and related central agencies.          municipal services and infrastructure"
    governments and related central                             ***                           through:
     government agencies.                  · The means to achieve the PDO were restated       (i) improving the financial and
                                               to better align the components with the        institutional capacity of CPSCL for
                                               activities included within.                    the provision of funding for
                                           · Indicators were aligned to better measure PDOs   municipal investments; and
                                                                                              (ii) strengthening
                                                            ***                                the institutional capacity of local
                                           Loan Agreement Amendment (08/14/2007)              governments and related central
                                           was approved by the Country Director. This          government agencies.
                                           was not formally reported to the Board as it
                                           was considered by the team7, by the legal
                                           department , and by approvers in MNA
                                           as a clarification and refinement of the PDO.



1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
The main part of the PDO Legal Agreement remains unchanged after the 2007 Amendment. The
PDO was slightly changed as follows: to enhance the delivery of basic municipal services and
infrastructure through: (i) financing the priority municipal investments included in the Municipal
Investment Plan (PIC); and (ii) strengthening the financial and institutional capacity of the
CPSCL, the local governments, and related central agencies.

6
  TUNISIA- Third Municipal Development Project (Loan No 7154-TUN). Amendment to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, August 14, 2007.
7
  ISR 11/24/2009.

                                                                                                                                 3
Project indicators were modified to reflect the new component structure, but were not significantly
changed in substance. New intermediate indicators to measure municipal infrastructure
investments were added. The following PDO indicator was added:

      Measures of physical component objectives (new indicator): Commitment rate for new
      municipal projects under the PIC IV.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries were: (i) the urban population, particularly those living in under-equipped
neighborhoods, through the provision and better management of basic public services and
infrastructure; (ii) local governments, through capacity-building and strengthening support
provided by CNPRCRM/CFAD and CPSCL; (iii) municipalities in financial distress, through
targeted support to enable them to move forward to financial viability; (iv) DGCPL through the
support of institutional and policy reforms; (v) CPSCL, through equipment and technical
assistance; and (iv) CNPRCRM/CFAD, through management capacity improvements.

1.5 Original Components
The project as presented in the PAD document had two main components.8
Component 1 ­ Capacity-building for the CPSCL to provide funding for municipal investments
(Appraisal cost: Euro76.89 million equivalent to US$75.25 million).
This component established a line of credit in CPSCL to finance the priority investments of the
PIC and also financed institutional strengthening activities targeted at CPSCL.
Sub-component 1: Credit Line to the CPSCL to finance priority municipal investments; most of
these subprojects are part of the approved fourth PIC; Sub-component 2: Credit line to finance
micro-projects; Sub-component 3: Institutional strengthening of the CPSCL through (i) carrying
out an assessment of the requirements for the modification of the CPSCL's legal status; (ii)
implementation of an information technology plan; (iii) provision of technical advisory services
and training to CPSCL staff for the improvement of account management; (iv) provision of
equipment; (v) setting up computer systems for the strengthening of CPSCL's five regional
branches; (vi) improvement of coordination and relations between the CPSCL headquarters and
the regional branches; and (vii) provision of training and technical advisory services for the
improvement of environmental management evaluation of sub-projects and micro-projects.
Component 2 ­ Capacity-building for urban local governments and related central agencies
(Appraisal cost: Euro2.41 million equivalent to US$2.36 million).
This component aimed to improve the ability of urban local governments and relevant central
agencies to deliver basic municipal services.
Sub-component 1: Strengthening the capacity of CNPRCRM/CFAD to deliver improved and
focused training for municipal staff, through: (i) provision of computer equipment and software,
and training of the Center staff; (ii) reorganization of the Center through new statutes as well as
provision of computer equipment for the Center and its regional branch offices; (iii) improved
training curriculum offered by the Center, targeting specific professional themes; (iv)

8
    PAD November 07, 2002- Annex II, page 33.

                                                                                                 4
establishment and support for a training research and evaluation unit in the Center; (v)
development, implementation, and follow-up of training to improve the performance of
municipalities; (vi) development, implementation and follow-up of training curricula targeted at
municipalities in financial difficulty; (vii) diversification of training products and teaching
methods; and (viii) evaluation of municipal restructuring programs and development of an
agenda for further action.
 Sub-component 2: Enhancing the administrative and financial management capacity of
municipalities through: ( i) consolidation and improvement of the management capacity for 128
general municipalities; (ii) development and implementation of restructuring plans and contracts
to address the 132 municipalities in financial difficulty; (iii) computerization of tax rolls and
collection to improve local tax billing and collection rates; (iv) a Geographic Information System
(GIS) to establish baseline urban data and track the evolution; (v) extension of the inter-city
cooperation program of the National Federation of Tunisian Cities; and (vi) technical assistance
to the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).
Sub-component 3: Strengthening the staff capacity of DGCPL by improving both its working
procedures and assistance to municipalities, through: (i) provision of training to DGCPL staff in
evaluation and follow-up of municipal projects (begun under MDP II); (ii) provision of computer
software and training; (iii) development of the DGCPL website; and (iv) equipment.
 Sub-component 4: Strengthening the capacity of the Regional Development Department within
the Ministry of Interior (DGAR) by improving management of regional councils and their
assistance to rural councils, through: (i) institutional strengthening of the Governorates
(organization charts, job descriptions, recruitment plans, and improvement of procedures
manuals); (ii) provision of basic office equipment for the benefit of rural councils,
implementation of two national rural council conferences, and publication and dissemination of
practical guides for Neighborhood Committees; (iii) completion of a computerized organization
scheme for DGAR and the Governorates; and (iv) providing funding for studies to be conducted
by DGAR.
Sub-component 5: Provision of technical advisory services and training to staff of the
Community Development Department within the Ministry of Interior (GESCOM) for the
identification, development, and implementation of micro-projects.

1.6 Revised Components (after restructuring)
The components were relabeled by the Loan Agreement Amendment following the Mid-Term
Review in order to align them with the PDO. Given that 96% of the project financing was for
infrastructure investments, the new components were redefined to reflect the difference between
the physical component and the institutional component. The only change was that
subcomponent 1.3 in the original document became subcomponent 2.1; thus, all the institutional
strengthening was now consolidated under one component.

Redefined Component 1:        Financing of priority investments included in the PIC
                              Sub-component 1: Credit Line to the CPSCL to finance priority
                              municipal investments; Sub-component 2: Credit line to finance
                              micro-projects


                                                                                                5
Redefined Component 2:        Strengthening the institutional and financial capacity of the
                              CPSCL, the local governments and related central government
                              agencies
                              Sub-component 1: Institutional strengthening of the CPSCL; Sub-
                              component 2: Strengthening the capacity of CFAD; Sub-
                              component 3:     Enhancing the administrative and financial
                              management capacity of municipalities; Sub-component 4:
                              Strengthening the capacity of DGCPL; Sub-component 5:
                              Strengthening the capacity of DGAR; Sub-component 6:
                              GESCOM

1.7 Other Significant Changes
In addition to redefining the components, the CPSCL requested the inclusion of the following
modifications to the loan agreement: (i) adjustment in the financial clauses (compliance would
be postponed until the close of the project rather than being carried out each fiscal year); (ii) a
reallocation of proceeds among disbursement categories; (iii) the removal of the obligation to
transform the CPSCL into a limited liability financial institution; and (iv) the indicator that
committed the CPSCL to maintain arrears over the outstanding ratio of less than 5% was
redefined; it would no longer include the municipality of Tunis (which held 43% of the non-
performing CPSCL loans), thus allowing a more realistic target for CPSCL. Nevertheless,
CPSCL continued to measure the indicator with and without Tunis until the end of the project to
monitor the effect of the Tunis arrears on CPSCL's financial situation
The loan was in Euros and, due to substantial appreciation of the Euro, the original amount of
US$78.4 million was equivalent at the closing date to US$102.4 million. This exchange rate
gain allowed in particular the co-financing, along with AFD, of the solid waste equipment for
Tunisian municipalities (a contract of Euro 29 million) and the financing of some of the new PIC
V projects.
The project was extended twice, for a total of 19 months, to June 30, 2010, in order to complete
the purchase of the solid waste municipal equipment.


2. Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry


Preparation
Preparation of MDP III took place in the context of Tunisia's long-term strategy regarding
municipal strengthening of service delivery. MDP III drew on the lessons from the previous
MDPs, which financed key development studies aimed at defining the appropriate strategies and
actions for the institutions involved in municipal development. The MDP III preparation phase
was used constructively to conduct necessary studies, such as financial studies of three
municipalities in fragile situations and financial diagnoses for the city of Tunis; to establish


                                                                                                 6
capacity-building programs in consultation with CPSCL and CNPRCRM/CFAD; and to define
technical assistance as needed.
MDP III responded to the objectives of the CAS regarding the intent of the GoT to raise the
standards of living conditions of the urban population across the country through provision of
basic infrastructure and services. The Bank's intervention was justified by the experience
acquired in MDP I and MDP II. During preparation, the GoT laid the groundwork for
institutional reforms aimed at improving municipal taxation, government transfers, and local
government financing.
Design
The overall PDO (as stated in the Loan Agreement) was highly relevant, focusing on improving
delivery of priority urban infrastructure. To achieve this objective, the project directly financed
basic services and infrastructure investments, and carefully targeted activities aimed at: (i)
strengthening municipalities and sector institutions; and (ii) the use of improved financial,
computerized, and legal tools for programming, implementing, and monitoring project
investments. Above all, the municipal restructuring plans and contracts signed9 by
municipalities, the central GoT, and CPSCL would improve municipal financial situations (i.e.,
reduce the overall number of municipalities in critical financial situations and restructure the
financial situations of municipalities with financial problems) and reduce the overall arrears to
the CPSCL, assuring the continuity of municipal investment.


The PAD does not mention triggering operational policy 8.30 on financial intermediary lending,
although the policy was in use since 1998 and the operation was defined as a financial
intermediary loan. In any case it is unlikely that the project could have complied with this policy
given the limitations of the Tunisian municipal finance context (basically lack of decision
making and financial autonomy of CPSCL). Indeed the team working in the preparation of the
follow-up project, has requested an exemption for OP8.30 for this reason.


Quality at Entry
At initial stage of MDP III, there were two different sets of PDOs: (i) there was a PDO given in
the PAD; (ii) there was also a PDO given in the Loan Agreement signed with the borrower. The
PAD corrigendum corrects this mistake. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that the
inconsistency brought confusion and complications both in monitoring the project and in
measuring the success in achieving the PDO during the implementation period preceding the
exoneration.




9
  The proposed methodology to implement these municipal financial tools includes: (i) preliminary assessment of
the municipal finance situation (based on documentation sources); (ii) preliminary consultation with municipal
representatives, to complete municipal information on the ground; (iii) diagnostic of the municipal financial
difficulties which includes audits of municipal function, services and activities; (iv) definition of a detailed action
plan; (v) definition of institutional support needed to carry out the action plan.
-Méthodologie d'audit et d'élaboration des plans et contrats de redressement- B.M PDM III- 5 juillet 2004.

                                                                                                                          7
The PAD also presents a long list of indicators:10 many of them had unrealistic targets (e.g.,
timing expectations of recovery of municipalities in financial stress); others did not have clearly
measurable target values (physical investments and number of inhabitants for whom living
conditions would improve).


Another shortcoming of the design is the presentation in the PAD of a rather institutional project
when in fact 96% of the cost was assigned to the development of municipal infrastructure.
Following the PAD corrigendum and Loan Agreement Amendment, the project is now seen as a
municipal financing investment project with a financial and institutional capacity building
component.


New performance indicators were introduced in order to allow not only better accounting of the
impact of the local investments, but also better evaluation of the impact of the project. However,
indicators for improving living conditions related more to higher-level objectives, which depend
on the effectiveness of other inputs that are outside the scope of the project, were not reviewed or
clarified. The Bank team had expected that the client evaluation would include measures on
improving living conditions; this lack of information measures will be corrected by an AFD full
impact assessment of MDP III.
The project identification of benefits and target population, institutional focus, mitigation
measures, implementation arrangements and project risks were well chosen. However, the rate of
progress of the GoT institutional reforms was overestimated, and the success of the outcomes
was less than had been expected in the PAD.
QAG assessment rated the Quality at entry Unsatisfactory. This is discussed further in Bank
performance 5.1.
2.2 Implementation
Project implementation encountered additional challenges, especially with regard to: (i) the
evolving institutional and policy reforms, and introduction of new measures to redress the
financial situation of municipalities; and (ii) development and implementation of municipal tools
(such as the restructuring plans and contracts; the municipal expense management computerized
system (ADEB); and the municipal budget management computerized system (GRB)).
Moreover, and not least, were the challenges posed by the requirements of the PAD
corrigendum, and also by the need to relabel the project components (Loan Agreement
Amendment). All these activities were handled proactively by the PCU (Project Coordination
Unit) and the Bank team in a manner that assured achievement of project outcomes.
Responding to the institutional and policy reforms. MDP III supported and was carried out in
conjunction with a number of important institutional and policy reforms. These included: (i) the
revision of the municipal budget organic law (LOBCL)11, which introduced ADEB; (ii) the
revision of the municipal organic law (LOC) which supports the de-concentration of the
municipal supervision authority through empowerment of Governors and reinforcement of
authority at the regional level; (iii) the modification of laws and decrees concerning municipal

10
     PAD ­ ANNEX 1: Project Design Summary- Page 29.
11
     Loi Organique sur le Budget des Collectivités Locales (LOBCL), revised in December 2007.

                                                                                                  8
taxation (commercial and industrial tax--TCL;12 real estate taxes--TNB13and TIB;14 and indirect
taxes), which simplified the taxation system (for example, for the TIB the number of criteria to
determine the assessments was reduced from 46 to only 6); (iv) the sustained evolution of the
central government transfers (FCCL)15; (v) the undertaking of administrative measures to
improve the municipal training institute (CFAD); and (vi) the development of incentives to
promote inter-municipal management. The GoT also undertook a much needed fiscal amnesty16
and a reassessment of the property tax rolls, two measures that were not part of MDP III, but
demonstrated the importance that the GoT attributes to municipal financial development. All
these reforms were aimed at strengthening the financial and institutional aspects of
municipalities.


The introduction of the municipal restructuring plans and contracts was fundamental for
sound municipal financial management. Operational adjustments were needed in each
municipality in order to implement these plans and contracts. The introduction of municipal
restructuring plans and contracts also required consensus building and support for buy-in to the
necessary actions. In this context, the implementation on the ground of the municipal structuring
plans took a long time. In terms of results, 104 out of the 132 municipalities17 that were under
financial stress prepared, signed, and are now implementing the restructuring plans, and some
success is starting to be seen. In addition, the city of Tunis is paying its arrears to CPSCL. The
project has raised awareness of the issue of the financial viability and credit-worthiness of
Tunisian municipalities.
In addition to the development of software to improve the management of the municipal
budget which was identified in MDP III, new tools were added to move towards the
introduction of double entry accounting system and a system for electronic payments. This
provided new tools for municipalities to implement the restructuring plans. The project provided
funding for the development of information systems to help manage municipal budgets (GRB)
and municipal expenses (ADEB). The GRB and ADEB are now in place to encourage
municipalities under financial stress to better manage their financial situation; however, the
results will not become concrete until the medium term.
 CPSCL made substantial improvements in providing a sufficient and effective source of
investment funds; however, the financial situation of CPSCL remains fragile. CPSCL
demonstrated that it is a fully operational institution able to channel project funds to local
governments in a systematic and disciplined manner. CPSCL also made progress in clearing the
municipal arrears. However, the progress in increasing the recovery of arrears has been slow. It
should be noted that the autonomy of CPSCL depends on addressing structural weaknesses of the
local governments. QAG's assessment mentioned that the "Borrower retreated from the original
aim of granting the CPSCL greater autonomy and the focus of municipal institutional capacity
shifted to tackling the problems of financially distressed municipalities, rather than strengthening


12
   Taxe sur les Établissements à Caractère Commercial et Industriel.
13
   Taxe Foncière sur les Terrains Non-Bâtis.
14
   Taxe sur les Immeubles Bâtis.
15
   Fonds Commun des Collectivités Locales.
16
   The tax amnesty was necessary to start enforcing payments under clean balance sheets.
17
   Total number of Tunisian municipalities: 264.

                                                                                                  9
municipalities as a whole." Therefore, CPSCL committed to focusing on increasing the recovery
and on enforcing more stringent lending criteria in order to tackle its financial situation.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Design, Implementation, and Utilization


Design
The PAD presented three major performance indicators; i) the implementation of restructuring
contracts; (ii) a reduction in the number of municipalities identified as in financial difficulty; and
(iii) an increase in the collection of revenues from local taxes and fees. However, the M&E
framework reflects the ambivalence of the design, with a set of key indicators aiming to measure
institutional change, and no key indicator seeking to measure improved infrastructure services.
The arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of the physical investments was vague. The Mid-
Term Review (MTR) and the following Loan Agreement Amendment were used to improve the
M&E framework and to introduce new indicators to measure physical investments, thus allowing
better accounting of the impact of investments and achievements of the PDO. The key indicators
to measure institutional changes remained as originally specified in the intended outcomes.


Financial CPSCL indicators were redefined to allow a realistic target, dropping the municipality
of Tunis from the arrears over the outstanding ratio. The high rate of municipal arrears had
prevented CPSCL from meeting the ratio of less than 5%.


Implementation
The project was implemented in the Tunisian inter-government planning system with strong
focus on results, particularly physical investments, to meet PIC objectives. The M&E
responsibility was given to the PCU, with inputs from various implementing agencies (overly
dependent on government agency reports); CPSCL was responsible for M&E information on
disbursement, procurement, and fiduciary information. M&E was collected by the PCU and
shared with the Bank, as evidenced by the regular updates to the Implementation Status and
Results reports (ISR). The ICR team has not been able to find documentation to show that MDP
III did in fact conduct regular M&E to measure the number of inhabitants whose living
conditions were improved by the project. This can be explained by the absence of clear target
values of PAD indicators and the difficulty of measuring the impact of improving conditions
throughout a specific project. However, new intermediate indicators were added to the original
two (number of landfills and m2 of green spaces/inhabitant) by the GoT in order to monitor the
project investments that directly improved living conditions, such as kms of streets and
sidewalks constructed; kms of drainage and sanitation channels constructed; and public lighting
points.


Utilization
The MTR was used to review project progress and to revise the project, confirming the progress
toward meeting physical components. Most of the tools used to assure regular data collection
regarding the financial situation of municipalities and the performance ratio for the CPSCL will

                                                                                                   10
continue to be useful tools to follow the performance of the local governments, both in terms of
self-evaluation and oversight; such as municipal restructuring plans and restructuring contracts;
GRB; and ADEB.


2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance


Safeguards
This project fully adhered to the requirements of OP-BP 4.01 and Tunisian Law No. 115 of
1992. The EIA Directorate of ANPE is the body responsible for Environmental Assessments
(EIA) in Tunisia. ANPE is responsible for administering, reviewing, and monitoring EIAs. The
CPSCL screened all sub-projects for compliance with environmental safeguards. This process
was thoroughly reviewed during the MTR supervision mission and was considered satisfactory.


Fiduciary compliance
Procurement and financial management are rated Satisfactory. The Bank supported municipal
development by making funds available through the CPSCL for investments. The Bank carried
out at least one post-procurement review per year; all ISRs noted procurement and financial
management as Satisfactory with one exception for which the rating was Moderately
Satisfactory18. However, it should be noted that the project was extended twice, to a total of 19
months, because of the delay in the MG-6 (Marché groupé-6) procurement process to finance a
large contract to acquire solid waste collection equipment for municipalities.


The CPSCL was responsible for the fiduciary and safeguard aspects of the project. Additionally,
the CPSCL was responsible for evaluating and financing local government investments,
following eligibility criteria for subprojects and beneficiaries which are satisfactory to the Bank.


Supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects was considered by QAG to be Moderately
Satisfactory. This included procurement (MS), financial management (S), and social aspects
(MU). Procurement is rated MS because "procurement functioned reasonably well and the
oversight was reasonably good. The documentation of the Bank's oversight and ex-post reviews
could have been better". The quality of oversight of the Social Aspect is rated MU "because the
monitoring of the multi-stakeholder participatory approach in GESCOM sub-projects was not a
high priority for supervision."


The ICR team differs with the QAG assessment because all post-procurement reviews were
documented and the GESCOM sub-projects were executed early on in the life of the project and
surpassing targets. In addition MDP III was never considered a social project.


18
 ISR #12- 10/09/2007. Prepared during the process to acquire municipal equipments for all Tunisian
municipalities under one single contract.

                                                                                                     11
2.5 Post Completion Operation/Next Phase
The 11th National Development Plan (2007-2016) stresses the importance of enhancing the
coordination of investment plans among each region's municipalities; and giving large cities the
necessary tools to plan their broad development strategies and project investments in accordance
with their financial capacities. The GoT requested a new municipal development project in May
2010 which will be built on the lessons learned from the previous MDPs. The overall PDO is to
improve local service delivery through financing priority infrastructure projects (PIC projects)
and institutional support and through promoting inter-municipal projects. A draft PCN was
prepared for internal Bank discussions in September 2010.


3. Assessment of outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
The objective remains highly relevant and reflects the proper diagnosis of development
priorities, which also remain relevant. The long-term and sustained effort in the municipal
development sector has resulted in substantive improvements in infrastructure and local service
provision. Currently, in 2010, 99%19 of the Tunisian urban population has access to improved
drinking water and 96% has access to improved sanitation facilities. While the access of the
Tunisian population to services and infrastructure is among the highest in the region, there is still
a need to assure the sustainability of investments in infrastructure, to develop inter-municipal
coordination (in large agglomerations composed of many municipalities), to complement
financial municipal tools with urban development tools (as city contracts), and to assure efficient
service delivery.


The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), Fiscal years 10-1320confirms that one of the
main challenges for the Tunisian government remains the improvement of the quality of service
delivery to citizens. The culture of financial discipline, which MDP III has helped to inculcate
through the use of new financial management tools, supports the focus of the CPS on improving
the capacities of the municipalities.


As described above (Section 2.1), the design was relevant to the challenges identified at
appraisal. The restructuring plans, contracts and other tools provided by MDP III to monitor
municipal debts and to prevent an increase in the number of municipalities in fragile financial
situations are key success factors.


During implementation, the project responded to the challenge of revising the results
framework. The new framework was well aligned with the PDO, and relevant to measuring
improvements in investments in infrastructures and basic services.
19
     Source: The Little Green Data Book- The World Bank; 2009.
20
     CPS for the Period FY10-13- November 2009.

                                                                                                  12
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of the PDO is Moderately Satisfactory
The main PDO was to "enhance the delivery of basic municipal services and infrastructure" and
this objective was achieved. MDP III accomplished concrete and tangible results by contributing
to the financing of the 5 year municipal investment plans (PIC), to cover all of the country's
urban areas (264 municipalities) with basic infrastructure and services. The Borrower evaluation
shows that in the 20 sample municipalities (representing 7.5% of the Tunisian municipalities,
including 1.2 million of the urban population) 425 projects were carried out, during the period
2002-2009. The project also supported many national reforms as explained above (para 2.2,
Implementation). The project also achieved very important targets regarding the development
and implementation of municipal management tools (such as ADEB, GRB, and electronic
payments).


The completion of the specific activities of two components, outlined in the PAD and reviewed
by the Loan Agreement Amendment, is summarized below.


(i) Financing of priority municipal investments projects included in the PIC. The key indicator
of a commitment rate of 82% for new municipal projects under the PIC has been exceeded, with
a rate of 86% for committed projects. MDP III completed the construction of 1933 km of roads
and sidewalks; 79 km of drainage and sanitation pipes; 36.428 street lights; 35 km of water
pipes; and 14 sanitary landfills; and increased the m2 of green spaces by inhabitant, among other
infrastructure works. For the micro-projects, GESCOM completed 55 projects, representing
137% of the end of project target.


(ii) Strengthening the institutional and financial capacities of the CPSCL, the local
governments, and related central agencies. The activities under this component have been
completed for the CPSCL and related central agencies. However, the project achieved only
partial success in developing a sustainable program of financial recovery for the municipalities in
financial distress.

CPSCL is a fully operational institution able to channel funds to construct municipal
infrastructure. The central role of CPSCL in the provision of funds to local governments as well
as the efficacy and reactivity of CPSCL to municipal demands has been strengthened. Three of
five target values of financial indicators for CPSCL were met by the closing date. However, the
modification of the status of CPSCL has been postponed through a loan agreement amendment
because the GoT wanted first to address the financial situation of the municipalities. The
institutional support had concentrated on the implementation of the IT development plan, which
includes the strengthening of the five regional branches of CPSCL through equipment
computerization; improving the coordination with headquarters; and advancing relations with the
municipalities. These activities were accompanied by training and technical assistance in order to
improve account management. CPSCL will continue funding the future PIC investment projects.

                                                                                                13
Strengthening the local governments. The project developed a sustainable program of financial
recovery for municipalities in financial distress. Of 132 municipalities in distress, 104
municipalities were supported by the project in the implementation of restructuring plans and
subsequent contracts at the closing date. Encouraging results are taking place in many
municipalities, but these have not yet translated into changes of financial status, except in the
cases of a few municipalities. The number of municipalities in difficulty was reduced from 132
to 120;21 however, the target indicator of a total of 75 municipalities identified as being in a
difficult financial situation at the end of the project was not attained. Some signs of positive
recovery are already tangible. That the design was unrealistic with regard to the timing of
financial improvement must be repeated.

Overall, annual financial resources (revenues) have improved at an annual average of 6.7%
(between 2003-2009) through: (i) changes in TIB/TNB tax brackets; (ii) an increase in tax
collections based on the results of 2006 reassessment; (iii) an increase of numbers of tax rolls;
and (iv) the taxation amnesty which allowed the collection of former arrears. However, these
financial improvements had mixed results regarding the targets in the PAD: (i) TIB achieved
with a an average municipal collection rate of 72.4% (target 70%) by end of project (ii) TCL
partially achieved with a percentage of municipalities collecting the tax at its base rate of 27.8%
(target 50%).

MDP III also financed a study to diagnose the situation in the city of Tunis and to propose
mitigation measures. Recommendations have been implemented (improvement in collection of
industrial and commercial taxes; increased income generated through rental of advertisement
spots; a decrease in personnel expenses; and refinancing of debt with public societies and private
enterprises), thus allowing the city to pay part of its arrears with the CPSCL. The project
supported the inter-communal development strategy of Greater Sfax, in which the Bank
financed, through the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), the technical
assistance to define the slaughterhouse project and AFD will finance its construction as the first
inter-municipal management infrastructure project in the country.
Strengthening of CFAD. This was achieved through the provision of computer equipment and
the training of center staff; reorganization of the center; improved training curriculum;
establishment and support for a training evaluation unit; development of general training services
to municipalities; and diversification of training and teaching methods. Through a partnership
with a Canadian institute, training on these aspects has been provided to a wide range of
categories of staff, covering all municipalities.

Support to central agencies: DGAR, DGCPL, GESCOM. This was achieved particularly
through the provision of technical assistance and equipment to diverse institutions. Efforts made
during implementation have led to reconsideration of institutional support to specific institutions
in coherence with main objectives.



21
     Borrower's Evaluation Report.

                                                                                                14
Most indicators have been achieved and many have surpassed the original targets (please refer to
the datasheet for a complete list of indicators).

3.3 Efficiency
In agreement with the Bank, CPSCL uses a simplified guide to evaluate municipal sub-projects
from the economic point of view. This guide is based on the following principles:

-   Sub-projects are clearly classified by the nature of the works required (revenue generating
    facilities, social infrastructure, basic infrastructure, housing, administrative buildings,
    environmental amenities) and by their size
-   The requirements to determine the feasibility of a sub-project vary depending on the category
    of the sub-project
-   For revenue-generating activities and for large sub-projects (costing more than 1 million
    TD), the economic internal rate of return needs to be calculated and exceed 10%
-   Mostly two methodologies are used for the economic analysis: revealed preferences for sub-
    projects in which a demand function can be estimated and hedonic prices for sub-projects
    that have an impact on land prices in the surrounding area
-   For all other projects three comparable solutions must be presented along with their detailed
    costs, and the option with the least cost chosen

 Since all sub-projects are subject to this screening, efficiency in the use of resources is justified
(please refer to Annex 3 for more details).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project is rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS) as its main objectives were achieved, and the
physical component (96% of project financing went to infrastructure investments) was achieved
with no shortcomings. The project achieved very important targets regarding the development
and implementation of municipal management tools such as ADEB and GRB which have been
applied to all the municipalities. The project supported many national reforms and the
modernization of CFAD, a key institution in municipal capacity-building.


The project supported the development of restructuring plans and contracts. However, the
results are not yet apparent in the improvement of the financial situation of municipalities in
distress. The ISRs' MS rate is explained by the fact that MDP III did not achieve the indicators
related to improving the situation of municipalities under financial distress. Targets now seem to
be ambitious and unrealistic with regard to the timing expectation for financial improvement of
municipalities, as noted in several ISRs, and did not take into account that institutional reforms
are complex and have medium- as well as long-term achievements. While the institutional
environment for municipal service delivery has certainly improved under the project, the final
outcome is likely to be more modest than anticipated in the PAD.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

                                                                                                     15
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The integration and quality of social development aspects written in the PAD22 summary project
analysis were not well integrated into the design of the project itself. Social aspects of the project
were confined to the GESCOM (community-based participatory development program)
subcomponent, which completed 55 projects and surpassed its target indicator, but did not
achieve the expected levels of community participation within the target population.23
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
MDP III contributed to strengthening the financial discipline of local governments through
restructuring plans and contracts agreed upon and signed between the municipalities and the
GoT. The project contributed to building the human resources of municipal sector institutions
and to developing skills in the local consulting industry. With the evolution of the municipal
responsibilities, additional computer equipment, and new tools, the municipalities have been able
to hire more qualified professionals and to improve the quality of services.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The financial information and knowledge base at municipal levels have been significantly
strengthened. A set of tools was developed to establish a baseline and to ensure that municipal
budget information would be regularly updated. Physical and other investment and financial
information databases are linked, encouraging the development of municipal sector analysis
which can prevent financial bottlenecks. The restructuring municipal contracts are being
internalized as a tool of central-local reciprocal interaction at this stage of the fragile municipal
institutional and financial situations.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshop
Interviews were held in a sample of 20 municipalities during the Borrower's evaluation study
completed in June 2010 and the details are provided in Annex 5. The municipal representatives
expressed overall satisfaction with the project and with the implementation agencies. The
relevance of the new tools and equipment was also stressed by the municipal staff participating
in the interviews. The mayors who were interviewed recommended continued training of
municipal staff in the use of the management tools provided by the project.


4.      Assessment of risk to development outcome

Rating: Moderate
The risks to development outcome are related primarily to (i) a slow improvement in the
municipal financial situation; (ii) some municipalities in financial distress being unable to
implement the financial restructuring plans laid out for them; and (iii) less than optimal
maintenance of infrastructure.

The CPSCL's exposure to financial risk was addressed under MDP III. Following the GoT
request, during the 2006 MTR, to remove the obligation to transform the CPSCL into a limited
liability financial institution due to the delicate financial situation of Tunisian municipalities, the

22
     PAD, page 25.
23
     Borrower's Evaluation Study.

                                                                                                    16
Government and Bank team collaborated closely to strengthen the support to municipalities in
financial distress. In addition, the CPSCL financial indicators were improved following the
adoption by the GoT of a set of measures including local tax reforms, enhancement of local
collections, rescheduling of arrears, and restructuring of municipalities in financial difficulties.

The satisfaction of mayors and national authorities is another element that has contributed to an
expansion in the number of restructuring plans. There is a strong commitment by the GoT and
involved institutions to extend the implementation of restructuring plans to all municipalities
under financial stress. This provides a measure of assurance that improvements will continue.
Further, municipalities in financial distress, and thus with financial problems in implementing
the restructuring plans, will have access to the FCCL fund provisions. The increased levels of
subsidies are conditional on the commitment of municipalities to increase their local financial
resources while limiting their administrative expenses. Measures to increase local revenue
collection have been implemented. Despite these improvements, the increase in municipal
budgets remains modest, and some municipalities, due to their limited natural and economic
assets, simply cannot generate any significant income. The general economic crisis has had a
minor impact on municipal budgets which also poses a risk to development outcomes.

Regarding operations and maintenance, the PIC includes two budget lines for rehabilitation of
infrastructure and municipal budgets have a dedicated line for routine maintenance, which are
good measures and a better situation than the one found in many developing countries.
Nevertheless operations and maintenance budgets are usually fungible and end up being used for
other urgent needs. Moreover a culture of maintenance does not exist among municipal staff.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance

5.1 Bank Performance

a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The ICR's assessment of overall quality at entry is rated as Unsatisfactory (U), which fully
coincides with QAG's assessment, since the design presented major shortcomings: (i) the
inappropriate specification of DOs in the PAD; (ii) inconsistencies between the PAD and the
original Loan Agreement; (iii) the lack of consistency within the different parts of the PAD: the
main part of PAD describes a project aimed primarily at moving forward an institutional reform
agenda. However, the technical annexes of the PAD and the allocation of funds show the project
primarily financing municipal infrastructure; (iv) the weakness of the results framework, which
has several indicators to measure institutional change but only a few to measure improved
services; (v) performance indicators for physical investments that measure progress only in terms
of commitments were utilized; and (vi) of the long list of indicators, only a few had realistic
targets, and others did not have clearly measurable target values. The design also underestimated
the time needed to implement the municipal finance program, and hence was overly optimistic
about the rapid strengthening of financial and institutional outputs.
The QAG supervision assessment, undertaken in 2008, rated the quality of design as
Unsatisfactory, on the basis of: (i) the way the project was described in the PAD; (ii) the
problems that were to follow from inappropriate specification of the PDO in the PAD; (iii) a lack
                                                                                                 17
of coherence in project design; (iv) the inconsistency reflected by the results framework; and (v)
the lack of precision of performance indicators to assess progress and outcomes.
(b) The Bank Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank provided good continuity both in team composition throughout the implementation
period and in regular interactions with the client and partners. Bank supervision missions were
executed on a regular basis (generally two per year) jointly with AFD; joint review aide-
memoires were shared; and cooperation has been good.
The deficiencies in M&E and the difficulties in measuring progress did not facilitate supervision
before MTR. However, the slowdown in the institutional aspect agenda was apparent enough in
the ISRs. During the first part of the project, supervision missions did not act proactively to
move the institutional component forward. Although the reviews in the ISRs detailed many
issues, the project ratings were not candid in all categories.
ISRs continued to rate as satisfactory the progress toward meeting the PDO until February 2006
and to rate as satisfactory the implementation project until March 2005, in spite of the slow
progress of the institutional component. After the project redefined the components and
indicators (2007), ISRs gave a reasonable account of project implementation; and in this respect,
ISRs became candid.
The Bank team has continuously supported the client through preparation and implementation.
The Bank was responsive to the client when the GoT decided not make the CPSCL fully
autonomous and to focus institutional efforts mainly on financially distressed municipalities. It
was responsive to the client during the MTR when it decided to relabel components and
introduce new physical indicators to better reflect the project that the Borrower was
implementing, although more proactivity to encourage the Borrower to request the corresponding
amendment , right after the MTR, would have helped solve the inconsistencies in project design
earlier in the life of the project.
Although the Bank's support in terms of procurement was good throughout the project, during
the MG-6 process it fell short of standard as there was no expert in the region in the procurement
of large and complex contracts of goods and therefore advice was hesitant and slow at times.
In 2008, a quality supervision assessment rated the overall performance of the Bank's
supervision as Moderately Satisfactory. Supervision was considered by QAG as adequate with
regard to: (i) ensuring timely disbursements; (ii) the implementation of municipal investments
financing; and (iii) the responsiveness of the Bank team to the Borrower's concerns about the
weak financial situation of municipalities. However, the QAG believed that more could have
been done by the Bank in view of the continuing delays in the timely implementation of the
institutional component of the project. This rating did not take into consideration the PAD
corrigendum of 2009.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The rating reflects the U rating for quality at entry and the MS for supervision.
5.2 Borrower Performance


                                                                                               18
(a) Government Performance.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Government funds have been provided in a timely manner through CPCSL and the GoT's
commitment to the project has been constant. The GoT has been effective in resolving routine
implementation issues and coordination between different agencies worked well. The
institutional reforms adopted by the GoT will ensure that management tools developed by the
project will continue to be used. However, project implementation has been slowed in the
institutional component, in part because of the crucial need for the PCU to be reinforced. The
PCU team, even though it was reinforced with two new staff members, remains understaffed vis-
à-vis the complexity of activities of the institutional component. The PCU Coordinator is the
Director of the DGCPL enabling coherence between the national municipal development
programs and the project, but generating important delays due to conflicting timetables. These
national programs are under the responsibility of the DGCPL for implementation. At the same
time, a high level of technical support to the PCU coordinator could have improved efficiency in
the implementation of the institutional component of the project.

 (b) Implementation Agency or/ Agencies Performance
Performance of CPSCL
Rating:
Satisfactory
Overall, CPSCL has shown commitment to providing and channeling sufficient project funds to
local governments and has progressively been improving its structure and procedures. Projects
improved in quality and the agency improved in efficacy and in reactivity, as confirmed by the
survey of the Borrower's Evaluation Report. However, the increase in the speed of project
realizations has limited municipality participation in the process of making final decisions
regarding investment plans.24 The agency has met three out of five key performance indicators,
and has shown improvement in the remaining two.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The rating reflects the MS rating for Government performance and the S rating for
Implementation Agency performance.

6. Lessons learned

Increasing the percentage of the urban population with access to basic services and
infrastructure requires a wholesale approach and a long-term strategic plan. In Tunisia, the
improvement of access to basic services is facilitated by the centrally guided inter-government
long-term planning system. Municipal investments are implemented to cover the basic needs of
all 264 municipalities, with equitable regional distribution. The sustainability of the effort is
supported by: (i) the provision of sufficient and reliable sources of financing; and (ii) the
strengthening of the municipal development institution which channels the funds. The MDP III
experience offers many lessons regarding how to finance municipal infrastructure in order to
increase the rate of urban services with equitable regional distribution.


24
     Borrower's Evaluation Report. June 2010.

                                                                                              19
Municipal development funds can work well within centralized countries. This was stressed
in the report LESSONS FOR THE URBAN CENTURY/ Decentralized infrastructure finance in
the World Bank 25. Tunisia's well-structured approach to financing basic municipal infrastructure
(PIC), shows positive results to successfully promoting access to a sound level of infrastructure
in the entire country. The support of the GoT and the Bank to the municipal financial sector
should continue to yield more improvements with the introduction of new tools at the municipal
and inter-municipal levels.

Institutional reforms require a strong political will and sustained monitoring of different
phases of the implementation by the institutions involved. Institutional reforms represent
complex medium- to long-term endeavors, particularly in Tunisia, where the GoT is very
cautious about undertaking reforms. Projects with institutional reform components in Tunisia
should remain modest and flexible in terms of the scope of reforms. The implementation of MDP
III confirms lessons learned from preceding projects, i.e., that institutional reforms require: (i)
strong political will; (ii) a long preparation period (including studies, tests, and pilot cases); (iii)
sustained monitoring; and (iv) accepting that results will only be apparent in the medium and
long terms.

Municipal restructuring plans and information systems to monitor municipal budget and
expenses can be efficient tools to improve municipal financial management. The project
approach and its tools can be used to effectively link infrastructure financing, maintenance, and
capacity-building. In the case of MDP III, the timing of availability of these tools has been
satisfactory, as they were ready almost simultaneously. However, the tools were implemented
late and thus had little impact at the time of project closing.

The process for PAD design should ensure that: (i) PDOs are realistic in terms of scope and
timing; (ii) monitoring indicators are few, realistic, measurable, and objective; (iii) the project
design incorporates and generates a well-designed evaluation system for assessing the project
outcomes and the priority needs of the project; and (iv) the project documents are reviewed for
consistency.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/ Implementing Agencies/Partners (NA)




25
     Lessons for the Urban Century. (Decentralized Infrastructure Finance in the World Bank). World Bank 2008.


                                                                                                                 20
Annex 1. Project costs and financing

(a) Project cost by component (in Euro million)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                                Estimate
                                           (Euro millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                  (Euro millions)
Component 1: Capacity building for
                                                          76.89
CPSCL
Redefined component 1: Financing
of priority investments included in                                           77.41
the PIC
Component 2: Institutional
Strengthening of Government and                            2.41
Public Entities
Redefined component 2:
Strengthening the institutional and
financial capacity of the CPSCL, the                                            1.89
local governments and related central
government agencies
                Total Baseline Cost                       79.30               79.30       100%
    Physical and Price Contingencies
                Total Project Costs
                     Front-end fee                         0.80                 0.80      100%
       Total Financing from IBRD                           80.1                 80.1      100%

                    
       

                
          

                                                       

                                         

(b) Financing

                                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest Percentage
                                           Type of
         Source of Funds                                  Estimate          Estimate        of
                                         Cofinancing
                                                       (Euro millions)   (Euro millions) Appraisal
Government                              Contribution             76.37             76.37  100%
IBRD                                    Loan                     80.10             80.10  100%
AFD                                     Loan                     47.66             47.66  100%




                                                                                                   21
Annex 2. Output by components26

The loan was for 80.1 million Euros and was totally disbursed.

Component 1 ­ Financing of priority municipal investment projects included in the PIC27.
(Actual cost: 77.41 million Euro, equivalent to 97% of total actual project cost)
 ·    PIC projects realized in 264 municipalities
 ·    1933 km of roads and sidewalks
 ·    79 km of drainage and sanitation pipes
 ·    36,428 public lamps (street lights)
 ·    35 km of water pipes
 ·    14 sanitary landfills, exceeding the target value of 6
 ·    Recreational areas
 ·    Acquisition of solid waste collection equipment for all municipalities


      LOT No 228: 69 tipper trucks (PTAC 15 to 16 tons)
      LOT No 3: 28 tipper trucks (PTAC 18 to 19 tons)
      LOT No 4: 37 compactor trucks (11-12 m3)
      LOT No 5: 88 compactor trucks (16-17 m3)
      LOT No 6: 77 backhoe loaders (80-100 CV)
      LOT No 7: 28 loaders
      LOT No 8: 270 farm tractors


Component 2 - Strengthening the financial and institutional capacity of the CPSCL, the
local governments, and related central agencies (Actual cost: 1.89 million Euro, equivalent to
2% of total actual project cost29)

CPSCL
  · Modification of CPSCL status: studies undertaken but actual change postponed through
     loan amendment
  · Implementation of an Information Technology (IT) development plan
26
   Project description: from Loan Agreement Amendment.
27
   Approved subprojects include: (i) construction and maintenance of municipal infrastructure such as streets and sidewalks,
public lighting, potable water, drainage, and sanitation; (ii) land management and beautification activities; (iii) economic
infrastructure; (iv) social-cultural infrastructure and projects; (v) acquisition of equipment and supplies; (vi) construction of
administrative buildings; (vii) National Program for Rehabilitation of Low-Income Neighborhoods; (viii) solid waste
management; (ix) rural council support; and (x) studies.
28
   Lot 1 was not financed by the project
29
   The front-end-fee accounts for the remaining 1%

                                                                                                                                    22
   ·   Training and technical assistance to improve account management
   ·   Strengthening of the five regional branches of CPSCL through computer equipment and
       technical assistance

MUNICIPALITIES
  · 104 municipal restructuring contracts signed
  · Expense management system [ADEB]; and income management system [GRB]
     developed, tested and implemented in all municipalities
  · Study on Tunis Municipality's financial situation
  · Development, testing and implementation of geographic information system (SIG) in 8
     pilot municipalities
   ·   Development of two additional computer tools: (i) an information system of all municipal
       projects including budget allocation, bidding documents and process, financial
       management, studies and works ; and (ii) a database of all municipal contracts with
       concessionaires of urban services
   ·   IT development plan

CFAD
  ·    Provision of computer equipment and training of center staff
  ·    Support to the reorganization of the center
  ·    Establishment of and support to a training evaluation unit
  ·    Development of general training services to municipalities
  ·    Design of a distance learning site

DGCPL
   ·   Provision of computer equipment
   ·   Design of a system for the electronic payment of taxes
   ·   Studies and assistance to develop the following institutional reforms: revision of the
       Municipal Budget Organic Law, revision of the Municipal Organic Law, modification of
       the texts ruling local finance, modification of legal texts related to FCCL, and inter-
       municipal projects (more detail in Annex 7)
DGAR
   ·   Establishment of an IT development plan for governorates and rural councils
   ·   Provision of computer equipment to 10 governorates and 97 rural councils
   ·   Establishment of a Data warehouse with three applications to track information related to
       economic activities, project monitoring, and political affairs, in 10 governorates


GESCOM
   ·   Financing of over 50 micro-projects at the neighborhood level (out of 40 originally
       planned).

                                                                                             23
24
Annex 3. Economic and financial analysis

In agreement with the Bank, CPSCL uses a simplified guide to evaluate municipal sub-projects
from the economic points of view. This guide is based on the following principles:

-   Sub-projects are clearly classified by the nature of the works required and by their size
-   The requirements to determine the feasibility of a sub-project vary depending on the category
    of the sub-project
-   For revenue-generating activities and for large sub-projects (costing more than 1 million
    TD), the economic internal rate of return needs to be calculated and exceed 10%
-   For all other projects three comparable solutions must be presented along with their detailed
    costs, and the option with the least cost chosen

The following table contains the categories of sub-projects and the requirements for the
economic analysis

                                            Categories of projects

Category                Sub-projects               Economic analysis      Methodology
Revenue-generating      Markets,                   Full       economic    Revealed preferences
facilities              slaughterhouses,           analysis        and
                        parking        spaces,     sensitivity analysis   Benefits estimated using the demand
                        amusement parks            required               curve and taking into account: full
                                                                          inventory of existing and similar
                                                                          facilities, demand study for new facilities
                                                                          including estimated consumption levels
                                                                          for 10 years according to demographics
                                                                          and economic trends, products and prices

                                                                          All costs considered:         investment,
                                                                          operation, maintenance
Social infrastructure   Sports           arenas,   Least cost selection
                        community       centers,   among 3 alternatives
                        cultural        centers,
                        recreational centers
Basic infrastructure    Roads,       sidewalks,    Full       economic    Hedonic prices
                        public         lighting,   analysis        and
                        drainage,         water    sensitivity analysis   Benefits estimated through increases in
                        connections, sanitation    required for large     land values in the surrounding areas
                                                   sub-projects           attributable to the specific investment,
                                                                          using regression analysis

                                                                          All costs considered:         investment,
                                                                          operation, maintenance
Housing                 Urban upgrading            Full       economic    Hedonic prices
                                                   analysis        and
                                                   sensitivity analysis   Benefits estimated through increases in
                                                   required for large     land values in the surrounding areas
                                                   sub-projects           attributable to the specific investment,
                                                                          using regression analysis

                                                                          All   costs    considered:    investment,

                                                                                                                  25
                                                                     operation, maintenance
Administrative       Mayor's headquarters     Least cost selection
buildings                                     among 3 alternatives
Environmental        Beautification   green   Least cost selection
amenities            spaces, parks            among 3 alternatives

The methodologies used by CPSCL are deemed correct and consistent and are applied to all sub-
projects. A study is currently reviewing these methodologies in detail as well as their application
to a sample of sub-projects to determine improvements to this approach in the context of the new
project preparation.




                                                                                                26
Annex 4. Bank lending and implementation support/supervision process


(a) Task Team members
           Names                             Title                      Unit
Lending
Charles Henri Malécot      Municipal finance specialist, TTL           MNSIF
Jean-Jacques Soulacroup    Urban specialist                          ECSIE
Sybille Crystal            Operations analyst                       MNCMG
Samir El Daher             Municipal development regional advisor   MNSIF
Meskerem Brhane            Consultant
Nicole Glineur             Environmental scientist                     MNSRE
Douglas Graham             Financial management specialist             MNSIF
Claude Archambault         Procurement specialist                      MNSID
Dominique Bichara          Counsel                                     LEGMS
Dominique Dietrich         Program assistant                           MNSIF
Hedi Larbi                 Sector manager                              MNSIF
Françoise Brunet           Consultant
Thouria Nana-Sinkam        Language program assistant                  MNSIF
Ferid Belhaj               Counsel                                     LEGMS

Supervision/ICR
Charles Henri Malécot      Municipal finance specialist, TTL
Sateh Chafic El Arnaout    Sr. Municipal development specialist     MNSUR
Alexandra Ortiz            Sr. Urban economist, TTL                 MNSUR
Jean Denis Pesme           Manager                                   FPDFI
 Anas Abou El Mikias       Sr. Financial management specialist      MNAFM
Alaleh Motamedi            Sr. Procurement specialist               OPCPR
Radia Benamghar            Operations analyst                       SASDT
Salim Benouniche           Lead Procurement specialist              MNAPR
Jaafar Sadok Friaa         Lead urban specialist                    MNSUR
Lamis Aljounaidi           Junior professional associate            MNSTR
Salim Rouhana              Junior professional associate            MNSUR
                           Special representative to the United
Dominique Bichara                                                      EXTUN
                           Nations
Jean-Charles de Daruvar    Sr. Counsel                                 LEGEM
Dominique Dietrich         Program assistant                           MNSSD
Sylvie M. Pittman          Temporary                                   MNSSD
Ahmed Basti                Consultant- Municipal finance               MNSSD
Caroline Bollini           Consultant- Team support                    MNSSD
Françoise Brunet           Consultant- Institutional development       MNSSD
Alicia Casalis             Consultant- Urban development               MNSSD

                                                                               27
Moez Makhlouf             Consultant- Financial management           MNAFM
Mohamed Mehdi             Consultant- Financial management           MNAFM
Walid Dhouibi             ET consultant- Procurement                 MNAPR
Slaheddine Ben Halima     Consultant- Procurement                    MNSHD
François Noisette         Consultant- Urban development              MNSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                        (estimated)          travel and consultant costs)

Lending
 FY02                                      21.08                       NA
 FY03                                      10.76                        68.78

Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                     13.11                        85.08
  FY05                                     17                          109.29
  FY06                                     24.82                       161.36
  FY07                                     12.83                        88.41
  FY08                                     20.4                        136.52
  FY09                                     14.65                        96.17
  FY10                                      8.02                        53.66
  FY 11                                     1.98                        22.16

                          Total:          144.77                       821.43




                                                                                        28
Annex 5. Beneficiary survey results

A beneficiary survey was conducted in the context of the Borrower's evaluation report of June
201030. Annex 5 presents the main results of this survey. Interviews of municipal representatives
and technical staff were conducted in a sample of 20 municipalities, representing more than 7%
of the Tunisian municipalities and more than 15% (around 1.2 million people) of the urban
population31.

Methodology
The selection of the sample municipalities, presented in Table 1, was based on three criteria:
· Financial autonomy
· Size of population in the municipalities
· Geographical distribution

        Table 1. Sample of municipalities according to the level of subsides
 Municipalities without any    Municipalities partially       Municipalities totally
         subsidies                   subsidized                      subsidized
Marsa                       Mornaguia                      Kalaat Landlous
Ezzahara                    Mhamdia-Fouchana               Bardo
Nabeul                      Hammam Laghzez                 Borj El Amri
Bizerte                     Kalaa Sghira                   Kodar
Sousse                      Enfidhia                       Testour
Sfax                        Béja                           Hammam Lif
Ariana                      Menzel Bourguiba

The municipalities were grouped in three categories according to the number of inhabitants: (i)
nine large municipalities, with more than 50,000 inhabitants; (ii) four medium-sized
municipalities, with between 20,000 and 50,000 inhabitants; and (iii) seven small municipalities,
with fewer than 20,000 inhabitants.

The interviews focused on four themes:
· Physical achievements of PICs 2002-2006 and 2007-2011
· Satisfaction of beneficiary municipal personnel with regard to: (i) new management tools;
   and (ii) capacity-building training and programs
· Municipal financial achievements concerning tax recovery: TIB, TNB, TCL, and hotel tax
   activity
· PIC development process and evaluation of the work relationship between the municipalities
   and the CPSCL

Survey results
   a) Physical Achievements:
The analysis of the survey shows that 425 sub-projects were carried out in the 20 sample
municipalities during the period 2002-2009. The survey also documented that each local

30
     Borrower's Evaluation Report- June 2010.
31
     Census INS 2004.

                                                                                                 29
authority defined its own project priorities based on its specific needs. For example, the
municipality of Sousse is a tourist destination and thus had dedicated an important part of the
budget to city embellishment projects. On the other hand, the investment priorities for Borj El
Amri, a totally subsidized municipality, were socio-cultural infrastructures (a sports stadium,
play areas for children, and youth center).

The evaluation report concluded that, overall, municipal investments were allocated as follows,
in order of priority:
    · To infrastructure: streets, sidewalks, public lighting, potable water, drainage and sanitation;
      and to maintenance and rehabilitation of the infrastructure
    · To the construction of socio-cultural infrastructure: public libraries, social centers for the
      young, sports clubs, etc.
    · To the embellishment of the municipalities to improve public places, and to the provision
      of cleaning and maintenance material
    · The acquisition of computerized equipment, to install GRB, ADEB, and to track the
      implementation of projects in order to improve the capacity of the municipality and the
      quality of services
    · To economic projects such as municipal markets, community centers, and commercial
      centers, all of which contribute to economic development
    · The financing of studies for municipal projects in order to improve the quality of the
      projects

For national projects integrated in the PIC:
    · Priority was given to the rehabilitation of under-equipped neighborhoods, in coordination
      with the Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Agency (ARRU). These projects are financed
      at a rate of 15% through auto-financing by the municipality; of 15% by a CPSCL loan; and
      of 70% by AFD, under the loan agreement between the GoT and AFD;
     · Priority was also given to the implementation, along with the Solid Waste Management
      Agency (ANGED), to a national program for landfills, solid waste collection, and solid
      waste transfer stations. Under PDM III, 14 landfills were constructed. In addition, a budget
      was also allowed for inter-municipality projects.
     · The XIth Plan also aimed to support an economic network for distribution of national
       products (agriculture, fishing, etc.), in association with the EU. This program covers
       rehabilitation of markets, slaughterhouses, fish markets, wholesale markets, etc.).

b) Degree of satisfaction
 · CFAD capacity-building sessions. The municipal representatives expressed overall
satisfaction with the sub-projects and with the implementing agencies. The relevance of the new
tools and equipment was also stressed by those participating in the interviews. The Mayors
interviewed recommended the continued training of municipal staff in the use of the
management tools provided by the project. The exchange of experiences between participants
was very much appreciated. A distance learning site is operational and is currently being tested;
this new tool will facilitate access to sessions and information without travel.

· Managerial tools and computerized material. The survey noted that: (i) the quality of
projects has improved; and (ii) the installation of computerized equipment, the application of

                                                                                                  30
ADEB and GRB, and the possibility of projects tracking implementation now facilitate better
project management and a rationalization of expenses in municipalities.


 c) Municipal financial achievements; main conclusions
Impact on municipal budgets of the census and tax amnesty. The 2006 reassessment was
accompanied by a tax amnesty. This allowed tax payers to pay arrears at discounted rates. The
analysis of the information in the survey shows that the amnesty and the census had significant
impacts on municipal budgets as illustrated below. Annual variation of tax collection:

              -   On municipalities under stress:
              Municipalities               2005-2006
                                      Annual variation of tax
                                           collection
    Testour                                          +221.53%
    Boorj El Amri                                    +205.38%
    Hammam-Lif                                        +127.8%
    Bardo                                             +48.34%
    Kalaat Landlous                                  +113.46%

              -   And also on municipalities without subsidies:
              Municipalities               2005-2006
                                      Annual variation of tax
                                           collection
    Sousse                                             186.57%
    Sfax                                                48.64%
    Bizerte                                             82.25%
    Nabeul                                               58.6%



·       Improvement in the financial situation of municipalities.. The survey concluded that the
municipalities with a restructuring plan believed their financial situations to be improved as a
result of the monitoring system introduced by MDP III, allowing improvement in managing
financial resources, setting objectives, reducing arrears, and rationalizing expenses.
However, fully subsidized municipalities, while benefiting from a restructuring plan, are faced
with a lack of potential resources, such as touristic, industrial, and commercial activities, all of
which could improve their income through taxes. The representatives of these municipalities are
asking for the development of economic activities at the inter-municipal level to generate local
taxes.

· Strengthening of human resources. The evaluation report confirmed an improvement in the
quality of projects due to the improvement of municipal staff capacity-building. The
strengthening of the municipalities with new equipment and more financial resources and tools
has permitted local authorities to hire new professionals such as engineers, architects,
accountants, and computer specialists.

·   Evaluation of tax recovery. The main conclusions of the survey show:



                                                                                                 31
 - An increase in the tax recovery for 2006 due to the 2006 reassessment, which enabled
   updating of the taxable base; and due to the 2006 tax amnesty.
 - A decrease in the recovery of some taxes in 2007 due to the end of the tax amnesty and to
   the inhabitants' practice of refusing to pay taxes, particularly TIB and TNB.
 - A modest level of financial resources in small municipalities: small municipalities,
   particularly those with rural profiles, are totally subsidized by the State, due to both the
   modest resources of the inhabitants and the absence of economic activities (hotels,
   industries, commerce, etc.); for example, the rural municipality of Kondar, created in 2005,
   has only 4000 inhabitants.


d) PIC development process and evaluation of work relationship between the municipalities
  and the CPSCL
  The evaluation report noted that during the development of MDP III, CPSCL worked closely
  with the municipalities and the relationship was considered positive.




                                                                                            32
Annex 6. Stakeholder workshop report and results (NA)




                                                        33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR/ or comments on draft ICR32

 The Borrower prepared an implementation completion report in June 2010, which includes a
beneficiary survey, presented separately in Annex 5 of this ICR. The borrower's report is
summarized below.

1.     Background
The total cost of the PDM III was 204.13 Million Euros, of which 80.1 were financed by the
World Bank, 47.66 by the French Development Agency (AFD), and 76.37 by the Government of
Tunisia. The PDM III was developed by the GoT in support of the Fourth Municipal Investment
Plan (PIC) 2002-2006, executed under the Tenth Economic Development Plan. However, the
PDM III continued until the second year of the Eleventh Economic Development Plan (2007-
2011).

2.     Achievements
The assessment of PDM III's achievements considers three aspects: (i) construction of key
municipal infrastructure; (ii) institutional support to municipalities and central government
agencies; and (iii) support to institutional reforms.

2.1 Construction of key municipal infrastructure (see Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey)
A beneficiary survey was conducted in the framework of the Borrower's evaluation report in
June 2010. Annex 5: a) Construction of key municipal infrastructure presents the main results of
this survey as well as the overall conclusions of the evaluation of the physical aspects of the
MDP III.

2.2 Key performance indicators concerning municipal finances

(i) Implementing (signature) of restructuring plans/contracts
The target of 104 signed municipal restructuring contracts was achieved by the end of the
project.

The municipal financial recovery has been a major challenge because half of the municipalities
were in financially vulnerable situation or in a weak financial state, and thus were partially or
totally subsidized. At the MDP III starting stage, 132 municipalities were concerned by
restructuring measures and of these, 60 were subsidized.

The financial restructuring activities began at the preparation stage of the project through a
diagnostic and restructuring plan for three pilot municipalities and consequent refinement of the
proposed methodology. The effort continued throughout the project with the following steps
applied to 104 municipalities: (a) detailed diagnostics of the financial situation; (b) preparatory
restructuring plans and contracts; and (c) signing of restructuring contracts and implementation.
The execution of the restructuring plans and contracts has mobilized a significant number of
consultants and DGCPL staff in order to support the municipalities.



32
     Etude d'Evaluation du 3ème Project de Développement Municipal (PDM3) Juin 2010

                                                                                                34
The report concludes that a majority of the municipalities had partially operationalized the
measures established in the restructuring plans. The restructuring plans have not yet attained the
expected impact in financial improvement; however, some signs of positive recovery are already
tangible. The DGCPL is currently performing an evaluation study concerning the municipalities
that had restructuring plans, and the results of this study will be used in the definition of follow-
up activities in the new operation.

(ii) Reduction in the number of municipalities in difficulty33
The project has contributed to the reduction in the number of municipalities under financial
distress, from132 to 120, through a) the restructuring plans, and b) technical assistance,
particularly the provision of computerized tools to manage budgets and expenses.

(iii) Increase in the collection of municipal taxes
Overall municipal revenues increased by 6.7% per year from 2003 to 2009, equivalent to an
average annual rate of increase of 6.6%. As a percentage of the total government budget,
municipal revenues increased from 72.3 in 2003 to 75.1 in 2009.

     ·   TIB: increase in collection from 24.7 MTD in 2003 to 36.2 MTD in 2009. The report
         noted that the annual amount of tax collection throughout the project was not stable, due
         to the taxation amnesty and the revision of assessment rolls in 2006.
     ·   TCL: increase in collection of the TCL from 52MDT in 2003 to 90.4 MDT in 2009,
         equivalent to an average annual rate of increase of 9.6%.

                                Evolution of taxes and FCCL, 2003-2009
                              (in millions of TD, all municipalities included)

                                          2003                  2009                Average
                                                                                    increase
         Municipal revenues              323.7                  478.8                 6.7%

         TIB                              24.7                  36.2                  6.6%
         TNB                               6.4                  13.5                 13.1%
         TCL                              52.0                  90.4                  9.6%

         FCCL                             89.6                  119.2                 4.9%




33
   The GoT had divided the municipalities, based on their financial health, in three categories to implement the 10th
Development Plan: i) municipalities in financially vulnerable situations: this included 71 municipalities not able to
borrow; ii) municipalities in a weak financial state; this category comprised 61 municipalities that faced financial
problems; these municipalities benefited from a mix of loans and grants; iii) financially healthy municipalities: this
included 128 municipalities. The re-arrangement of financial mechanisms (loans, grants, and self-financing) for
each of the three categories of municipalities assured the financing of basic local investments for all municipalities.

                                                                                                                   35
2.3 Institutional reforms supported by the MDP III


The project also supported many national reforms, such as the revision of the municipal budget
organic law (LOBCL)34; the revision of the municipal organic law (LOC); the modification of
laws and decrees concerning municipal taxation; the sustained evolution of the central
government transfers (FCCL); and the undertaking of administrative measures to improve the
municipal training institute (CFAD).


       Revision of the Municipal Budget Organic Law (LOBCL) Law No. 65 of December 18, 2007


       ·   Improvement of the procedures related to discussion and approval of municipal budgets
       ·   Changes in the municipal budget nomenclature to harmonize it to the national budget
           nomenclature
       ·   Introduction of the municipal expense management system "ADEB"
       ·   Adoption of mechanisms to manage municipal debt

       Revision of the Municipal Organic Law (LOC) Law No. 57-2008 of August 4, 2008

       Following the promulgation of the LOC amendment in August 2008, eight application texts
       were submitted. However, the amendments and the application texts went into force only in
       January 2009; thus, the impact of this law and its amendments are difficult to evaluate at the
       time of this ICR. The main changes were:
       · De-concentration of the municipal supervision authority to governors and reinforcement
           of competent authority at the regional level
       ·   Increased citizen participation through a mandatory open assembly before any municipal
           council assembly
       ·   Precisions concerning the responsibilities of mayors and general secretaries
       ·   Establishment of approaches to promote inter-municipal cooperation, notably inter-
           municipal agencies

       Modification of texts ruling local finance
       · Article 53 Law 106-2005 of December 19, 2005: establishment of conditions linking
         certain administrative authorizations with local tax payments
       · Decree 33-60 of December 25, 2006: increase in the maximum ceiling of TCL
       · Decree 1187 of May 14, 2007: definition of TCL rates by m2 for different types of
         commercial buildings
       · Decree 1186 of May 14, 2007: review the base of calculation of the TNB
       · Fiscal amnesty in 2006
       · Decree 1185 of May 14, 2007: review the base of calculation of the TIB


34
     Loi Organique sur le Budget des Collectivités Locales (LOBCL), revised in December 2007

                                                                                                  36
     Sustained increase of FCCL
     The FCCL transfer increased at an average annual rate of 4.9%, from 2003 to 2009.


     Improvements in the CNPRCRM/ CFAD
     CNPRCRM (Centre National de Perfectionnement et de Recyclage des Cadres Régionaux et
     Municipaux) became the CFAD (Centre de Formation et Appui à la Décentralisation) in May
     2004 through Decree 2004-1181. The missions of the institutions remained essentially the
     same. The main improvement contained in this decree is the administrative reorganization of
     the center and the definition of financing operating modalities. The decree also established
     the framework for capacity building programs and trainer profiles.

     Inter-municipal cooperation
     The MDP III also supported the inter-municipal development strategy of Greater Sfax, in
     which the Bank financed, through PPIAF, the technical assistance necessary to define the
     slaughterhouse project; the AFD will finance its construction as the first inter-municipal
     management infrastructure project. This example introduces a new approach for municipal
     cooperation in infrastructure projects.


3.       Recommendations for a new municipal development project

     ·   Implementation of the restructuring plans and contracts to all municipalities in financial
         distress
     ·   Creation of a preventive mechanisms to monitor the finances of municipalities that would
         alert the authorities when certain indicators reach defined thresholds
     ·   Provision of financial incentives for well performing municipalities
     ·   Reduction of the CPSCL financial charges and the debt of the municipalities by
         integrating in the municipal self-financing the cost of the plots of land needed for
         infrastructure construction
     ·   Evaluation of loan interest rates according to the project type, the financial situation of
         the municipality, and the general context of the financial markets
     ·   Institutional strengthening of CPSCL's regional branches
     ·   Test inter-municipal cooperation in specific sectors such as solid waste collection,
         slaughterhouse construction and operation
     ·   Support large cities in the preparation of sustainable city strategies
     ·   Modernization of public urban services, in particular the management of municipal solid
         waste
     ·   Strengthening of municipal human resources, particularly in the management of
         computerized tools and electronic government
     ·   Implementation of the Presidential program concerning the development of a specific
         status for the city of Tunis and its generalization to other large cities
     ·   Development of a special program to provide municipalities with urban planning tools.




                                                                                                 37
Annex 8. Comments of cofinanciers and other partners/stakeholders (NA)




                                                                         38
Annex 9. List of supporting documents

·   Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines, Updated--May 25, 2010
·   Country Assistance Strategy- For the Republic of Tunisia, June 3, 2004
·   Country Partnership Strategy- For the Republic of Tunisia--November 23, 2009
·   Third Municipal Development Project (Loan No. 7154-TUN). Amendment to Loan and Guarantee
    Agreements--August 14, 2007
·   Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio, MDP ­September 22, 2008
·   Borrower's Evaluation Report, June 2010
·   Project Appraisal Document
·   Project aide-mémoires
·   Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
·   MDP I and MDP II, ICRs
·   Lessons for the Urban Century. Decentralized infrastructure Finance in the World Bank. World Bank
    2008
·   The Little Green Data Book- The World Bank; 2009
·   Méthodologie d'audit et d'élaboration des plans et contrats de redressement. Application aux 3
    communes test: Kalaa Sghira, Menzel Abderrahmane, Le Bardo - B.M. PDM III- 5 Juillet 2004.




                                                                                                     39
Annex 10. PAD corrigendum

FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary
DATE: June 2009

                       Tunisia Third Municipal Development Project
                                      Corrigendum

1. The Loan (Number 7154-TUN) to the Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des Collectivités
   Locales (CPSCL), with Guarantee from the Republic of Tunisia, for a Third Municipal
   Development Project was approved by the Executive Directors on December 5, 2002 and
   became effective on June 23, 2003.

2. Four references/statements in the PAD are inconsistent with the Loan/Guarantee
   Agreements. To remedy these inconsistencies, the following corrections should be made in
   the PAD:

      (i)     The PDO in the PAD (page 3) should be aligned with the PDO of the Loan
              Agreement. Right now the PDO reads as follows: "To strengthen the institutional
              environment for the delivery of municipal basic services and infrastructure
              through: (a) enhancing the financial and institutional capacity of the Municipal
              Development Fund (Caisse des Prêts et de Soutien des Collectivités Locales,
              CPSCL) that provides financing for municipal investments, and (b) increasing
              institutional capacity of both local governments and related central agencies". The
              PDO should be re-stated as: "The objective of the Project is to enhance the
              delivery of basic municipal services and infrastructure, through: (i) improving the
              financial and institutional capacity of CPSCL for the provision of funding for
              municipal investments; and (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of local
              governments and related central government agencies".

      (ii)    On page 27 of the PAD, the following condition of effectiveness should be added:
              "The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
              and the Guarantor".

      (iii)   On page 27 of the PAD, Dated covenants section, the first covenant should be
              modified as follows: instead of reading :

              1. Modification of CPSCL legal status into a Corporation (Société Anonyme), by
                 June 30, 2006, providing the fulfillment of the key performance indicator
                 (stated in Annex 1, section 2a).

              The covenant should read:

              1. Modification of CPSCL legal status into a Corporation (Société Anonyme), by
                 December 31, 2006, providing the fulfillment of the key performance
                 indicator (stated in Annex 1, section 2a).

                                                                                              40
      (iv)   On page 28 of the PAD, the fifth financial covenant should be changed. Right
             now this reads as: "Gross margin rate of at least 1.5%". The covenant should be
             changed to read: "Net intermediation margin of not less than 1.5%".

3.    A revised PAD can be made available on request.

4.    Questions on these documents should be referred to Anna Bjerde, ext 33541.


Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




                                                                                         41
A. Project Development Objective

1.       Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to enhance the delivery of basic municipal services and
infrastructure, through: (i) improving the financial and institutional capacity of CPSCL for the
provision of funding for municipal investments; and (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity
of local governments and related central government agencies.

2.     Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
· Implementation (signature) of restructuring plan contracts between municipalities, central
   government and CPSCL:
   - 30% of most financially vulnerable municipalities by end of first year (2003),
   - 100% of municipalities with financial situation problems by end of 2nd year (2004).
· Reduction in number of municipalities identified as in difficult financial situation:
   - most financially vulnerable municipalities, from 71 baseline to 60 by end of 3rd year, and to
   30 by end of project,
   - municipalities with financial situation problems, from 61 baseline to 55 by end of 3rd year,
   and to 45 by end of project.
· Increase in collection of revenues from local taxes and fees:
   - TIB: increase in collection rate from 58% baseline (with the period analysis) to 62% by
   Mid-Term Review, and to 70 % by end of project,
   - TCL: 25% of municipalities collect the TCL at its base rate by Mid-Term Review, and 50
   % by end of project.

B.Strategic Context

1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-46 Date of latest CAS discussion: April 27, 2002
The CAS emphasizes the role of the Bank and its involvement in municipal and urban
development. It specifically underscores that: "In the longer run, Tunisia's growth poles would
appear to be in the urban areas and along the coast. With nearly two thirds of the country's
population now urbanized and with unemployment pressures felt in urban peripheries, municipal
and urban development needs to be consolidated in the CAS. This would be pursued with: (a)
maintaining involvement in municipal development projects, (b) strengthening municipal finance
and decentralization, and (c) preparing to expand integrated urban development in low-income
areas."

3.     Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Primacy of Tunisia's Urban Areas. Tunisia is among the most urbanized countries in the
Middle East and North Africa Region. Presently, 64% of the population live in cities and towns,
the vast majority of which are in cities with over 50,000 inhabitants. Between 1995 and 2000
urban population grew by 3.35% and is projected to reach 70% by the year 2020. This
demographic pressure will create further demand on municipalities to provide and maintain basic
services.
An Evolution of the Municipal Sector to strengthen. The Tunisian municipal sector has
developed over the last decade, yet its capacity to meet its investment responsibilities and
                                                                                               42
respond to the increased demand for services is still at a relatively early stage of development,
and needs to be reinforced.

                                                                            of its general manager, senior staff has been fully on
                                                                            board and the proposed institutional changes have
                                                                            been internalized. In addition, corporatization of
                                                                            CPSCL will be directly linked to the improvement of
                                                                            municipalities' financial situation.
                                                                            Annual investment amount is reduced, and ineffective,
                                                                            and lending by CPSCL is limited
Municipal adjustment programs are
ineffective.

                                                             M
From Components to Outputs                                                  Specific technical assistance in improving collection
Municipalities are not able to provide their                 S              of local taxes and fees would be implemented at an
counterpart contribution for investments.                                   early stage of the Project. The practice of larger loans
                                                                            to compensate for lack of counterpart funds would be
                                                                            terminated and municipal creditworthiness criteria
                                                                            applied more strenuously.

Overall Risk Rating                                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk); N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The preparatory study on social impact did not identify any possible controversial aspects. We
do not anticipate any negative impact on municipal personnel as a result of the restructuring plan
for the most financially vulnerable municipalities and municipalities with financial difficulties.
Enforcement of tax laws on recalcitrant tax payers may cause political discontent. This issue will
be carefully addressed through timely information of people coupled with concrete
improvements in municipal services.

G. Main Loan Conditions

1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Project Implementation Plan adopted (by the MoI).
2. CPSCL's Operational Manual Finalization.
3. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Guarantor.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenants:
Executing agencies:
1. Modification of CPSCL legal status into a Corporation (Société Anonyme), by December 31,
2006, providing the fulfillment of the key performance indicator (stated in Annex 1 section 2.a).
2. Modification of the 1997 decree ruling CPSCL in order to enable CPSCL to freely determine
its interest rates for non-PIC loans, by December 31, 2005.
3. Modification of CPSCL's Status in order to allow it to lend to non-municipalities borrowers
(for local development projects), by June 30, 2006.




                                                                                                                                 43
Sectoral regulatory actions:
1. Draft revised Organic Law on Municipalities in order to improve managerial flexibility, by
    December 31, 2006.
2. Improvement of the texts ruling Local Taxes in order to introduce flexibility at the local level, by
    December 31, 2006.
3. Measures to sustainably increase the FCCL, by December 31, 2005.

Financial covenants:
CPSCL should maintain the following ratio during the whole life of the project
1. Rate of return on equity of at least 5%.
2. Debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times.
3. Administrative costs/total assets ratio of at most 0.8%.
4. Arrears/outstandings ratio of at most 5%.
5. Net intermediation margin of not less than 1.5%.

H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
          start of project implementation.
x   1. b) Not applicable.
    2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
        project implementation.
x   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
        quality.
    4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

1. Compliance with Bank Policies
x 1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
       with all other applicable Bank policies.




------------------------------        -------------------------------      -----------------------------
Charles Henri Malecot                 Hedi Larbi                           Theodore Ahlers
Team Leader                           Sector Manager                       Country Director




                                                                                                            44
                            7°                                     8°                                                                   9°                                                                   10°                                                            11°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mediterranean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    600
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bizerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                              BIZERTE




                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                  10
            37°                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gulf of Tunis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            37°
                                                                                                                                                    Nefza

                                                                                                                                                                                   ARIANA                           Ariana
                                                                                                                                                   B E J A
                                                                                                                                                                                                         a                                  TUNIS              NABEUL
                                                                                                                                                  Beja                                                rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                 je                                           Ben Arous
                                                                                                        JENDOUBA                                                                            ed
                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ili            AROUS

                      TUNISIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                    Jendouba

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Zaghouan
                       TUNISIE                                                100
                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                 el
                                                                                                                    le
                                                                                                                         gu
                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H. Zriba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Nabeul

                                                                                                             M                                                                                         ZAGHOUAN
                                                                                600                     El Kef
                            ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
                            ALTITUDES EN METRES:                                                                                                         SILIANA
                             1000
                                                                                                                                                              Siliana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gulf of Hammamet
            36°              600
                             200                                                                   EL        KEF                                                                                                                                                                                            36°
                                                                                                                                                                                       uf
                             0                                                                                                                                                    ro                                                                  Sidi Bou Ali
                                                                                                                                                                             aa
                                                                                                                                                                         M
                           CHOTTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sousse
                           CHOTTS                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUSSE                 Monastir
                           RIVERS
                           OUED A ECOULEMENT PERENNE
                           SEASONAL RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                             Kairouan
                           OUED A ECOULEMENT INTERMITTENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MONASTIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jemmel
                           ANNUAL AVERAGE RAINFALL IN MM.                           40 0
                       200                                                                                                                                            KAIROUAN                                                                                 Zermedine
                           PRECIPITATION ANNUELLE EN MM.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mahdia
                           EXPRESSWAYS
                           AUTOROUTES
                           MAIN ROADS                                                             K A S S E R I N E                                                                              ud
                                                                                                        El                                                                                  ro
                           ROUTES PRINCIPALES                                                                Ha                                                                        Ze                                                                            MAHDIA
                           SECONDARY ROADS                                                                         te
                                                                                                                         b
                           ROUTES SECONDAIRES
                           RAILROADS                                                                                                   Kasserine
                           CHEMINS DE FER
            35°
                           INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35°
                           AEROPORTS INTERNATIONAUX
                           PORTS                                                                                                                               Sidi
                           PORTS                                                                                                                               Bou
                           GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                Zid
                           CAPITALES GOUVERNORATS                                                                                                   SIDI     BOU        ZID
                           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                   SFAX
                           CAPITALE NATIONALE
                           GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                       200
                           FRONTIERES DES GOUVERNORATS                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sfax
                                                                                                                                                             Maknassy
                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                             GAFSA                                                                                                                                                                       Kerkenna Islands
                           FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES

                                                                                                        Gafsa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gulf
            34°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gabes                                                              34°
                                                             TOZEUR
                                                                              Tozeur                                                                                                   Metouia                                                                 Djerba Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gabes                              Houmt Souk


                                          10
                                               0                                                                                                                         GABES
                                                                                Chott el Jerid                                           Kebili                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEDENINE
                                                                                                             K E B I L I                                                                                                               Medenine



            33°

                       ALGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tataouine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                           TUNISIA
                                                                                                                                                                        T A T A O U I N E
            32°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32°




                            7°                                     8°


            SPAIN                                   ITALY         GREECE
                    Mediterranean                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L I B YA
                                        Tunis

                                                    MALTA
                                                            Sea
                                                                                    31°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31°
                                    TUNISIA


                                                                                        This map was produced by the
                                                                                        Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  ALGERIA                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                        and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0           25           50              75        100
                                                                                        this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                     L I B Y A                          The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                                                                                        on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 32056




                                                                                        any endorsement or acceptance of
JULY 2002




                                                                                        such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                         9°                                                                   10°                                                       11°
                                          NIGER
