CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1270 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Fisheries Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 1976
S


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIP-
PINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DBP" means the Development Bank of the Philippines,
an agency of the Borrower;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DBP pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
DBP, in carrying out the Project described in Schedule 1 hereto,
to a beneficiary for an Investment Project, excluding any loan for
working capital, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of
the Loan;


﻿4,                           -3-
(d) "beneficiary" means an individual, a private corporation
or partnership to which DBP proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific investment proj-
ect, as approved by DBP pursuant to this Loan Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be carried out by a beneficiary and
to be financed in part by means of a sub-loan;
(f) "cost of Investment Project" means the cost thereof ex-
cluding the cost of land and the working capital requirement; and
(g) "peso" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿24-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for 61% and 71% of the amounts disbursed under
sub-loans under Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, in
respect of reasonable expenditures made by the beneficiaries, af-
ter the date of this Agreement, for the carrying out of the In-
vestment Projects; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, withdrawals on account of Part A of the Project
shall not exceed the equivalent of $7,300,000.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be purchased and carried out, respectively, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph C of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall per to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
any beneficiary cannot otherwise obtain sufficient working capital
required for the Investment Project, the Borrower shall cause DBP
out of DBP's own resources to make a working capital loan to the
beneficiary on terms and conditions not less favorable than those
of DBP's lending operations for working capital under similar con-
ditions.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the goods to be imported
by the beneficiaries and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be insured against hazards incident to their ac.,iisition,
transportation and delivery to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the beneficiaries to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the facilities in-
cluded in the Project to be constructed in accordance with design
standards satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DBP to cause the beneficiaries
of sub-loans for ice plants and slipway: (i) estimated to cost more
than $100,000 equivalent, to employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, to prepare its design and specifications, and tender
documents for such facilities, and (ii) estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or less, to submit its design and specifications, and
tender documents for such facilities, as shall be acceptable to
DBP and the Bank.


﻿(c) If, and to the extent that the Bank shall request, the
Borrower shall cause the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
to be furnished to the Bank in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, promptly upon their preparation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause DBP: (i) to maintain
records adequate to reflect the progress and cost of the Project
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
to enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the fa-
cilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the account referred to in Section 3.03 (b)
hereof, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DBP:
(a) to obtain from the beneficiaries annual reports with re-
spect to Bank financed projects showing quantities and values of
production, itemized production costs, and indices of productivity
so as to enable the preparation and updating of financial and eco-
nomic analysis of sub-projects; and
S


﻿-10                                      1
(b) to furnish to the Bank, annually, a report summarizing
the information referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, and a summary
report on all its loans for fisheries showing, among other things,
and separately for the Project, repayment collections, arrears
position and the ages of any overdues.


﻿4,- 11-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no
cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Bor-
rower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means
assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower including
the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution performing
the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿-12-
(a) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
f the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
;oing undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
f its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the ex-
ent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in
orce in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the
'orrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to
,he Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause DBP to maintain
.ecords adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
;ained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
!ondition of DBP.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DBP to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
ind expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
she Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
Vhe report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of DBP and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DBP to cause the bene-
ficiaries to operate and maintain the facilities included in their
Investment Projects in accordance with sound fishing, engineering
and financial practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause DBP: (i) to use its
best efforts to reduce substantially the amount of principal and
interest in arrears on all the outstanding loans made by DBP to
the fisheries sector; (ii) to undertake and complete a portfolio
review program of such loans and prepare a detailed plan of action
for discussion with the Bank not later than June 30, 1977; (iii)
to implement such plan of action according to a timetable to be
agreed with the Bank; and (iv) to include such information on its
arrears as shall be agreed with the Bank in DBP's quarterly re-
ports to the Bank.


﻿-14-e
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-,
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the parties thereto have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and DBP, and is legally binding upon
them in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 4, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-,15 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Mario Belisario
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a lending program for the inland and
ma:-ine fisheries sector:
Pa.t A:   Inland Sector
Provision of credit to finance:
(a) construction of new fishponds for fish farming; and
(b) expansion and rehabilitation of existing fishponds.
Part B:  Marine Sector
Provision of credit to finance:
(a) construction of fully equipped fishing vessels;
(b) conversion of second-hand vessels into fish carrier
boats;
(c) construction of ice plants with cold storage, to
be used to support the fishing industry;


﻿기


﻿4P                                     -19
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date P!a ent Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1981                                   26o,ooo
April 1. 1982                                     2759000
October 1, 1982                                   2859000
April 1, 1983                                     2959000
October 1. 1983                                   3109000
April 1, 1984                                     3209000
October 1. 1984                                   3359000
April 1. 1985                                     3509,000
October 1. 1985                                   3659000
April 1, 1986                                     3809000
October 1. 1986                                   3959000
April 1, 1987                                     4152000
October 1. 1987                                   430tOOO
April 1. 1988                                     4509000
October 1. 1988                                   4709000
April 1. 1989                                     49o.ooo
October 1. 1989                                   5109000
April 1. 1990                                     5309000
October 1. 1990                                   5559000
April 1, 1991                                     5759000
October 1, 1991                                   6oo.ooo
April 1. 1992                                     6252000
October 1. 1992                                   6559000
April 1. 1993                                     68o,ooo
October 1. 1993                                   7109000
April 1. 1994                                     735,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than fourteen years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          7-1/2%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Repayment:          18 years, including 5 years of grace.
Rate of interest:   8-1/2% per annum on outstanding amounts.
Exchange risk:      the Borrower shall bear it.
B.   Lending Program
1.   Sub-loan Applications
1.1  DBP shall maintain during the execution of the
Project a Fisheries Group divided into the Inland
Fisheries D.vision and Marine Fisheries Division,
each divisicn having a Project Appraisal and a
Project Supervision Section. Each Section shall
include, among others, one inland and one marine
senior fisheries specialist, and the Project Ap-
praisal Section will also include an experienced
financial analyst.
1.2 Sub-loan applications shall be filed with DBP's
branch nearest to the location proposed for the


﻿- 22 -
Investment Project, or with DBP's headquarters,
and shall be evaluated by the Fisheries Group from
a technical, financial and economic viewpoint.
The evaluation will emphasize the management capa-
bility and experience of the applicant.
1.3 No Investment Project shall be approved without
the prior Bank consent if by itself or together
with any outstanding amount of any (i) other sub-
loan or (ii) loan made by DBP and financed out of
the proceeds of the loan made by the Bank to the
Borrower pursuant to the Loan Agreement (Fisheries
Credit Project) between them dated May 21, 1973, or
(iii) loan for working capital e , to the same
beneficiary, it shall exceed the equivalent of
$600,000. To enable the Bank to appraise such In-
vestment Project, DBP's feasibility study demon-
strating the technical, managerial, financial and
economic viability of the Investment Project shall
be furnished to the Bank.
2.   Amount, Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
2.1 Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall be in
an amount not exceeding 90% of the cost of the
Investment Project, and sub-loans under Part B
shall be in an amount not exceeding 80% of such
cost, in order to ensure that beneficiaries are
required to contribute the remainder of such cost.


﻿- 23 -
2.2 DBP shall, in making sub-loans, utilize substan-
tially the form of sub-loan agreement agreed upon
with the Bank. The sub-loan agreement shall pro-
vide, among other things, for the following:
(a) An interest rate of twelve per cent (12%) a
year on the amount withdrawn and outstanding
on sub-loans secured by land, and of fourteen
per cent (114%) on all sub-loans not secured
by land; penal interest at the rate of two
per cent (2%) per month, on any amount in
arrears of 90 days or more, provided that
from June 30, 1977 on such rate shall be
three per cent (3%) per month;
(b) a term of up to 14 years, including a grace
period covering the construction and start up
period, but not exceeding three years;
(c) that the beneficiary shall not bear any for-
eign exchange risk;
(d) that the goods and civil works financed by
the sub-loans shall be purchased and carried
out, respectively, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph C of this Schedule;
(e) that the proceeds of the sub-loans be used ex-
clusively in the carrying out of the Invest-
ment Project;
S


﻿- 24-
(f) that authorized representatives of DBP, the
Borrower and the Bank shall have the right to
inspect the facilities included in the Invest-
ment Poject, the operations thereof and any
relevant records and documents, and that the
beneficiary shall provide DBP such information
thereon as DBP shall reasonably request;
(g) that beneficiaries of sub-loans exceeding
three million pesos shall pay to DBP a fee,
not to exceed 2% per annum on the principal
amount of the sub-loan outstanding from time
to time, to defray DBP's cost of appraising
and supervising the sub-loan;
(h) that the beneficiary shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the onerations and financial condition
of its Investment Project, and that, if DBP
shall so request, they shall cause indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to DBP, or DBP's
representatives, to audit such accounts, and
(i) that the beneficiary shall provide to
DBP, from time to time, such information as
DBP shall reasonably request to enable DBP to
assess the benefits produced by the sub-loan.


﻿-25-
C.   Procurement
1.   Ice Plants and Slipway
(a) Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for the ice plants and slipway estimated to cost the
eqivalent of $200,000 or more shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding, provided
that civil works and the purchase and installation of equipment
therefor may be let as one contract, at the option of the bene-
ficiary.
(b) Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall
cause the Bank to be furnished, for its com-
ments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall cause such modi-
fications to be made in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's
s


﻿- 26 -
concurrence before it is issued to the pro-
spective bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated,
the Borrower shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, cause the Bank to be
informed of the name of the bidder to which
it is intended to award the contract and
shall cause the Bank to be furnished, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) (i) Contracts estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
more but less than $200,000 equivalent may be carried out under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
and (ii) contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
may be carried out under contracts let through normal commercial
channels, with due regard to economy and efficiency.
(d) With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall cause the Bank to be furnished, promptly after
its execution, with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿- 27 -
(e) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
2.   Equipment; Advertising Therefor
(a) The Borrower shall cause DBP to ask the beneficiaries to
state their preferences regarding the make of the equipment to be
financed, and to establish, with the assistance of its marine spe-
cialist staff the standards for service and spare parts inventories
to be required from suppliers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DBP to advertise internationally
the procurement of such equipment so that suppliers not yet estab-
lished or represented in the Philippines have an opportunity to
.       do so, to build in the Philippines an adequate stock of spare
parts, and to make arrangements to provide adequate after-sale
services. The advertisements shall indicate the types of equipment
and the quantities estimated to be procured.
(c) Not less than 2 months after such advertising shall have
been made, suppliers established or represented in the Philippines
which in the opinion of DBP are qualified with regard to after-sale
service facilities and spare parts inventories shall be invited to
submit quotations for each type of equipment to be procured, quot-
ing prices for varying quantities of equipment.
(d) The Borrower shall cause DBP to assist and supervise the
beneficiaries in awarding the contracts on the basis of the quota-
tions received and the preferences indicated by the beneficiaries.
S


﻿-28 -
3.   Hulls and Second-Hand Vessels; Purchase
through Normal Commercial Channels
Hulls and second-hand vessels shall be purchased through nor-
mal commercial channels, under the supervision of DBP who will en-
sure that their cost is reasonable and that the hulls conform to
the design criteria established for the Project by its naval ar-
chitect.
4.   Fishponds
The beneficiaries shall, subject to DBP's prior approval, make
arrangements for the carrying out of civil works for fishponds by
contract or otherwise.
5.   Evidence
Prior to delivering to the Bank the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any con-
tract, and promptly after its execution, the Borrower shall cause
the Bank to be furnished two conformed copies of such contract.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly
inform DBP and state the reasons for such determination.


