Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19418
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Credit 2016-BD)
May 17, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                  =    Taka (Tk)
Appraisal year, 1989: US$1     -    Tk. 32.3
Completion year, 1998: US$1    =    Tk. 46.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW                   -    kilowatt (=1.341 horsepower)
MW                   =    Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
MVA                  =    Megavolt-ampre
kWh                  =    Kilowatt hour (=860.42k cals)
GWh                  =    Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
kV                   =    Kilovolt (thousand volts)
km                   =    Kilometer (=0.6214 mile)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -      Asian Development Bank
BPDB       -      Bangladesh Power Development Board
DCA        -      Development Credit Agreement
DESA       -      Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
EIRR       -      Econornic Internal Rate of Return
ESAC       -      Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESU        -      Electric Supply Unit
FY         -      Fiscal Year
FAC               Final Acceptance Certificate
GOB        -      Government of Bangladesh
IDA        -      International Development Association
MEMR       -      Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
ODA        -      Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PBS        -      Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electric Cooperative)
RAO        -      Regional Accounting Office
REB        -      Rural Electrification Board
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
WTP               Willingness to pay
Vice President    : Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director    : Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager     Alastair McKechnie
Task Leader      : Chrisantha Ratnayake



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Cr.2016-BD)                                      Page No.
PREFACE                                                      Table of Contents
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .....................................................                            2
B.  Achievement of Objectives ....................................................  2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................                           4
D. Project Sustainability .....................................................                                        4
E.  Bank's Performance ....................................................                                            5
F.  Performance of Borrower/Beneficiary ....................................................  6
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................  7
H. Future Operation ....................................................                                               8
I.  Key Lessons Learned .....................................................  8
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 Summary of Assessments .10
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
Table 3 Project Timetable .12
Table 4 Credit Disbursements .12
Table 5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .13
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation .14
Table 7 Studies Included in Project .14
Table 8A   Project Costs .....................................................                                        15
Table 8B   Project Financing ....................................................  15
Table 9A    Economic Analysis: 16 Towns Power Distribution Component ............................... 16
Table 9B    Economic Analysis: Kaptai Power Plant Rehabilitation ........................ .................  17
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................  18
Table 11   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................... 21
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................... 21
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                             22
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Mernoire with Operation Plan .............................                 ....................... 23
B. Borrower's Evaluation ....................................................  33
C. Bangladesh Power Development Board, Financial Statements ............................................ 43
MAP: IBRD 30051
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Cr. 2016-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Distribution (16 Towns) Project
for which Credit 2016-BD in the amount of SDR 64.7 million (US$87.0 million equivalent) was approved on
May 16, 1989 and made effective on February 12, 1990.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998. Final disbursement took place on November 24, 1998 at
which time a balance of SDR 2.9 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Chrisantha Ratnayake, Task Leader, Energy Sector Unit, South Asia
Region. It was reviewed by Messrs. Marc L. Heitner, Team Leader Energy Sector Unit, South Asia
Region and Mohsin Alikhan on behalf of the Country Director for Bangladesh.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion mission, in July
1998. It is based on discussions with officials of the Bangladesh Power Development Board, the Dhaka
Electricity Supply Authority and material in the project file. The borrower helped prepare the ICR by
contributing to the mission's aide memoire, assisting in preparing the statistical information, and
preparing its own evaluation (Appendix B).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Credit 2016-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.  IDA has been active in the Bangladesh power sector, processing seven Credits between 1977 and
1990, providing the resources needed for the expansion and development. The Credit under reference,
originally intended to address distribution requirements in 16 towns, was approved in May 1989 and
closed in June 1998 after three extensions. The first of these extensions was on account of additions
introduced during a mid-term restructuring, and the other two were for exceptional reasons (assumption
of office of a new government; and to repair of damages caused by a cyclone). Credit disbursements
were suspended for a period of 17 months due to poor institutional performance and delay in establishing
the Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA), a new distribution entity covenanted under the Credit. A
mid-term review was carried out a few months after the lifting of suspension, and the project scope was
revised to include rehabilitation of a power plant (Kaptai) and the augmentation of an important
substation (Ishurdi). The financial covenants were also amended at that time to reflect what was
considered to be attainable targets. The Bank has not processed new lending operations to the sector
since 1990.
Obiectives
2.    The principal objectives of the project were to expand and strengthen the distribution systems in
16 towns; carry out operational improvements in system reliability and voltage stabilization; reduce
power system losses; and improve Bangladesh Power Development Board's (BPDB) organizational and
institutional performance. The Project also initiated the unbundling of BPDB.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    On the whole, the physical objectives of the project were achieved satisfactorily. Distribution
systems of the 16 towns have been improved considerably permitting new consumers to be connected and
improving reliability of service. The rehabilitation of two hydro-electric generators at Kaptai and
augmentation of the Ishurdi grid substation have also been completed satisfactorily. The latter
investments have improved system performance and reduced the cost of power generation. Project
completion suffered numerous delays however, first as a result of the suspension of disbursements, and
subsequently due to the failure of the pole supply contractor for the distribution works. The Kaptai
rehabilitation works were delayed due to the time taken by BPDB in addressing changes in scope of work
which were not anticipated initially. Many of these delays could have been addressed effectively had
BPDB been able to raise additional funds to meet exigencies, and were more flexible and responsive in
decision making.
4.    A substantial quantity of metering equipment, procured under the project, helped relieve the
shortage of meters. However, these were not effectively utilized to bring about the expected reduction in
system losses. The project offered an excellent opportunity to address this issue in the project towns in
view of the sufficient quantity of material obtained to rectify dilapidated services and to build the
networks to meet system demand, thus ensuring supply to all legitimate consumers. Under the
circumstances, BPDB should have embarked on an aggressive exercise to reduce non-technical losses
along with network rehabilitation and improvement. Efforts made in this direction were short lived and
failed to meet expectations. Most project towns still exhibit losses of about 20% (double the expected



ii
standards) and loss reduction has been recorded only in nine of the 16 project towns. Attempts made to
improve commercial operations practices in billing and collections have also fallen short of expectations.
5.    Efforts to improving BPDB's organizational and institutional performance were similarly
unfulfilled. Improving financial management practices proved to be a key hurdle, particularly due to
difficulties in recruiting qualified staff. BPDB fell substantially short of the original financial covenants
(developed so as to achieve appropriate profitability ratios). Both BPDB and DESA also failed to meet
the amended cash collection covenant. While there has been a gradual but steady reduction in overall
system losses, performance in collections has been erratic.
6.    The establishment of DESA did little to improve sector performance. As DESA accounts for
42% of the power market, its performance is critical to the financial health of the sector. Contrary to
expectations, DESA remained a Government parastatal, with no change in corporate management
practice, staff rules or other procedures required to make the organization operate as a commercialized
entity. DESA's performance has, in general, been worse than that of BPDB.
7.    The limitations of the original assumptions were acknowledged in August 1993 when the project
was restructured, and IDA commenced a dialogue with GOB at this time on more fundamental sector
reforms to redress endemic deficiencies.
Proiect Sustainablitv
8.    The physical components of the project will provide substantial benefits to the power system.
The distribution component has greatly improved service to consumers in the 16 towns. The generation
rehabilitation component will provide low cost power, particularly at peak time, also displacing some of
the high cost liquid fuel generation which would otherwise have been required. The Ishurdi augmentation
will improve network performance and reduce power costs. However, in view of the poor institutional
performance and inability to address key deficiencies in system losses and collections, the project is not
deemed to be sustainable.
Summary of Findin2s, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.    Achievement of the development objectives suffered perhaps because of unrealistic expectations
in establishing DESA and improving the performance of BPDB, a large parastatal, in the absence of
fundamental changes in the overall commercial structure of the sector. There was also insufficient
identification of the issues involved, and insufficient preparatory work when establishing DESA. Better
achievements in these areas will depend on the sector reform program presently under consideration by
GOB. Future Bank support to the sector will be integrated with such a reform program.
10.   The project required the separation of DESA from BPDB but did not support DESA; nor were
arrangements made to provide critical assistance needed in establishing DESA and in developing its
institutional capabilities (improvements to DESA were to be carried out under other projects funded by
the Asian Development Bank). When such major institutional changes are contemplated, strong linkages
should be developed so that there is a reasonable chance of achieving the intended objectives.
Furthermore, performance covenants should be designed only to the direct beneficiary/implementing
authority of the project, so that effective action could be taken during project supervision.
11.    The project also assumed that long standing operational deficiencies could be resolved by
technical assistance to be provided by a complementary operation (UNDP funded assistance lined to
ESAC, Credit 1999-BD, approved in 1989). Ingrained institutional practices in parastatal organizations
are not easily redressed by such assistance and alternative structural changes involving commercialization
and privatization are now accepted as the appropriate remedy for such situations.



iii
12.   Important lessons concerning implementation include: (a) the need to improve contract
management capabilities of implementing agencies; and (b) prior planning and allowance for unexpected
contingencies in major plant rehabilitation works (these risks may be minimized during project
formulation and tendering stages). With respect to distribution projects, a common deficiency appears to
be the concentration of efforts on improvement of the main networks, without adequate attention to the
poor condition of consumer service drops and meters. The later aspects are more important in the context
of reduction of non-technical losses. Proper coordination between project staff and commercial
operations personnel is also essential for the success of such projects.
Borrower's Assessment
13.  The Borrower provided a detailed assessment of the project (presented at Appendix B) which
included a number of recommendations. With respect to the Bank's actions, the Borrower has
recommended that: (a) disbursements should not be suspended once a project has commenced (due to
consequent delays in physical works, cost increases and legal issues related to compensation claims etc.);
(b) Bank funding for local works should cover the full amount (rather than 75% used in the present
project), due to difficulties of negotiating proportionate payments with nationalized banks in Bangladesh;
and (c) arrangements should be made for payments of contract retention amounts against bank guarantees
when these become due after the Credit Closing Date (5% of contract amount for the Kaptai plant
rehabilitation is payable with the issue of the Final Acceptance Certificate, which is due only after 21
months of operation).
14.  With respect its own actions the Borrower's recommendations include: (a) greater autonomy for
Project Directors for project implementation; (b) shortening of internal approvals processes; (c) a more
careful preparation of tender documents and evaluation procedures; and (d) better coordination between
consultants and contractors. The Borrower also identified a number of factors which caused delays in
project execution: (a) obtaining rights of way for new line construction; (b) failure of a key materials
supplier to deliver goods (poles for distribution lines) as per contract; and (c) unanticipated change of
scope in the Kaptai rehabilitation (which only became apparent when the machine was dismantled).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Credit 2016-BD)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
Proiect Identitv
Name:            Power Distribution (16 Towns) Project
Credit:          2016-BD
RVP Unit:        South Asia, Energy Sector Unit
Country:        Bangladesh
Sector:          Energy
Sub-sector:     Power
Back2rou
1.   At the time the project was prepared, the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was the
main power sector utility responsible for generation, transmission and distribution functions' in
Bangladesh. The project was designed primarily to address the shortcomings of the distribution systems
in 16 towns. It reflected the continuing assistance provided by IDA to address investment needs in the
distribution system, and was similar in design to the Power Transmission and Distribution Project, carried
out from 1986 to 1992 (Credit 1648-BD approved in 1986).2 The utility had been performing poorly for
some time with collections accounting for only about 50% of total generated energy, and the return on
assets at about 1.7%. Thus, improvement of operational performance in the distribution and commercial
functions was of primary importance. These deficiencies were expected to be addressed by consultants
provided under complementary assistance programs funded by United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and the Overseas Development Authority (ODA)3 of the United Kingdom. Performance under
these programs was to be monitored under the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC, 1989 - 1990)4.
The project also envisaged the establishment of a new independent distribution entity, to be called the
Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA) to be responsible for the distribution function of the greater
Dhaka area. Operations of DESA were to be funded under separate arrangements by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and ODA.
2.   The project was approved by the IDA Board on May 16, 1989 and became effective on February
12, 1990. In view of the continuing poor institutional performance and the delay in establishing DESA,
disbursements under the Credit were suspended on September 4, 1991. After some improvements in
distribution operations were effected and DESA established and made operational, the suspension was
lifted on February 12, 1993. Following the lifting of suspension, a mid-term review was carried out and
the project scope revised (together with an extension of the Closing Date by one year) to include two
critical requirements for system performance: the Kaptai hydro power plant rehabilitation, and the
augmentation of the Ishurdi substation. Two other extensions of Closing Dates were provided. The first in
order to enable a newly-instated Government to introduce remedial measures, and the second in order to
Rural electricity cooperatives account for about 10% of the power market.
Project Completion Report no. 12653 of December 30, 1993.
Presently known as the Department for International Development (DflD)
Project Completion Report no. 10700 of June 5, 1992



2
utilize project savings to rehabilitate networks damaged during a cyclone which affected the southern part of
the country in June 1997.
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Obiectives
3.   The objectives of the project as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were to: (a)
expand and strengthen the distribution systems in 16 towns; (b) stabilize BPDB's system voltage; (c) reduce
power system losses in transmnission and distribution; (d) improve BPDB's operational efficiency and
increase the system's reliability; and (e) improve BPBD's organizational and institutional performance.
4.     Activities funded by the project focused primarily on the technical improvements in the 16 towns,
accounting for 71% of project costs. Rehabilitation of the hydroelectric generation plant (introduced mid
term) accounted for 19%, metering installations to improve commercial operations accounted for 8%, and
the balance of 2% was used for transmission improvements. A small amount was used to provide
computers and office equipment requirements to support the new institutions' being established for
reform of the power sector. The latter item was an addition included at the closing stages.
5.     The project objectives focussed on improvements in technical and institutional performance of
BPDB, including the creation of a separate (and independent) company to assume the distribution
function in the greater Dhaka area. This step implied the commencement of sector unbundling and it
would have been appropriate to articulate this fundamental restructuring as a project objective.
Furthermore, adequate support should have been provided to ensure that the objectives of the unbundling
process, i.e. a new management structure focusing on the issues of distribution in Dhaka, are attained.
While achievement of the project's physical targets did not entail particular risks, improving BPDB's
organizational and institutional performance and converting it to a well functioning commercial
establishment was a formidable task within the existing institutional arrangement. The tools required to
enable IDA to monitor and assist DESA in meeting intended performance goals were also lacking.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.     Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies    The project design did not envisage any
macroeconomic policy improvement measures. Some attempt was made however, at addressing sectoral
policies by requiring BPDB to unbundle the distribution functions in the greater Dhaka area to form an
independent operating entity. While DESA was created, it remained as a Government parastatal, with no
change in corporate management practice, accountability standards for key personnel or staff rules and
procedures. Thus the implied objectives of developing an independent company operating on a
commercial basis, reasonably freed from the rules and controls of Government was not achieved. When
the project was restructured in August 1993, these limitations were acknowledged. To address these
issues, IDA has been discussing with GOB in recent years, the introduction of an ambitious power sector
reform program2.
7.     Financial Objectives   A set of financial targets was covenanted at project commencement, such
that BPDB would achieve a sound financial position within a four-year period. These original covenants
required BPDB to maintain accounts receivables at 3.5 months of billings and earn a minimum rate of
return on net fixed assets of 4% in FY90, 6% in FY91, 7% in FY92 and 8% for each year thereafter.
BPDB never complied with these financial covenants. When the project was restructured in August 1993,
it was decided that achievement of these targets was unrealistic within the existing institutional
framework, and the covenants were recast to reflect what was considered achievable at that time. The
' The Power Cell established in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) and the Power Grid
Company of Bangladesh (PGCB)
2 GOB set up an interministerial committee to study these issues and in September 1994 accepted 'in principle' the
need for private participation in power generation and in unbundling and commercializing the sector. Some
progress has been made in attracting private sector generation projects while in other areas, implementation has been
slow.



3
new targets were based solely on the aggregated performance of system losses and bill collection. They
did not require the attainment of profitability ratios (ensuring sufficient cash generation or return on
assets). Accordingly, BPDB was required to maintain a collections to generation ratio of 69% in FY94,
73% in FY95 and 76% thereafter. In addition, new covenants were also introduced for DESA'; which
required collection to power purchases ratios of 68% in FY94, 74% in FY95 and 78% thereafter. These
ratios correspond to a combined collection to generation ratio of 61% in FY94, 66% in FY95 and 70%
thereafter.
8.    As a matter of fact, both organizations also failed to meet the modest targets under the revised
covenants. However, there has been a gradual and steady improvement in system loss reduction (of
approximately 1% per year between 1993 and 1998). Improvements in collections performance has been
more erratic with achievements below expectations, particularly in the case of DESA. Overall, the
financial covenants have not been complied with.
9.    Institutional Development Objectives  Improving BPDB's organizational and institutional
performance was a specific objective under the project. The main measures to support BPDB's
operations were the establishment of appropriate meter reading and billing systems, efficient bill
collection and control procedures including aging analysis of receivables, sound financial management
practices and the reduction of non-technical losses. The specific project components related to these
aspects included improvement of metering facilities and the acquisition of about 25 desktop computers to
improve accounting functions in the Regional Accounting Offices (RAC) and distribution planning
activities. With respect to the former activity, a substantial stock of (consumer and bulk power) meters as
well as portable measurement facilities was secured under the project. The consumer meters purchased
enabled BPDB to capture the consumption of many consumers who were previously provided with
unmetered supplies. The bulk metering facilities also enabled BPDB to measure the individual loss
performance of 'Electric Supply Units' (ESUs), responsible for the distribution function of a particular
geographic area. However, this equipment did not result in the expected reductions in system losses.
With respect to desktop computers, these were to be funded by GOB funding, which did not materialize.
Developing DESA to become an efficient utility was an implied objective. However, this aspect was
expected to be achieved under parallel projects supported by ADB and ODA. DESA's performance,
however, has been considerably below expectations ever since its inception. Under the circumstances, the
project objectives related to institutional development are deemed not to have been achieved.
10.   Physical Objectives    Physical objectives of the project consisted of the expansion and
reinforcement of the distribution systems of the 16 towns, installation of capacitors for power factor
correction, rehabilitation of two hydoelectric generators at Kaptai and augmentation of the Ishurdi grid
substation. The first item, distribution works in the identified towns, is expected to be completed in the
coming months. This investment has enabled BPDB to redress system deficiencies and provide a more
reliable service to consumers in the project areas. Technical losses of these networks have been
substantially reduced. The rehabilitated hydro units at Kaptai have now been in satisfactory operation for
over 16 months. Similarly, the Ishurdi augmentation work has been satisfactorily completed. In general,
physical objectives of the project have been achieved.
11.  Economic Analysis     Electricity sales have increased by nearly 11% annually in the 16 towns
and this has largely been made possible by the distribution system investments carried out under the
project. Recorded sales are also substantially higher and the costs incurred lower than estimated during
project appraisal. The rate of return for investments in the 16 Towns component with benefits based on
average tariffs and sales data works out to 7% compared to 6% at appraisal. The rate of return calculation
is presented in Table 9A. Calculating the rate of return using tariffs as a proxy for consumers'
willingness to pay (WTP) provides a lower bound estimate. An indication of what the true economic rate
of return might be is seen from an alternative computation also presented in Table 9A; using certain
assumptions on the consumer demand curve, the economic rate of return works out to 24% (compared to
' While some of the project towns were also handed over to DESA, project implementation was carried out solely
by BPDB, and amendments to the DCA required GOB to guarantee the performance of DESA.



4
28% computed during appraisal using a methodology that would have required a special data collection
exercise to update). Benefits from uncaptured consumption, reduced technical losses and greater system
reliability have not been taken into account in these analyses, all of which would raise the overall
economic rate of return. The rate of return on the rehabilitation of the Kaptai hydro plant is estimated at
27%, also using average consumer tariffs as a proxy for project benefits (Table 9B).
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.  Factors Generally Subject to Government Control    A major shortcoming of the project was
the failure to establish DESA as an independent entity operating under comrnmercial principles. The
separation of DESA from BPDB achieved little or no visible benefit as DESA continued to function
similarly to BPDB, under the same service terms and conditions for employees, and the same level of
Governmental control. As DESA accounts for 42% of the power market, its operational and financial
performance is critical to the financial health of the sector.
13.  Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control    Distribution investment should
have been utilized to reduce the excessive non-technical losses in the project areas. Although attempts
were made to improve commercial operations practices in billing and collections, these efforts were
thwarted by opposition from vested interests (particularly, employees benefiting from illegal practices)
and the lack of sufficiently motivated staff within BPDB to address this unpopular and difficult challenge.
Progress was also hampered by the separation of functional responsibilities between project staff and the
commercial/operations units.
14.  Project implementation was also affected adversely by BPDB's weaknesses in contracts
administration. Delays to the execution of the Kaptai rehabilitation work were caused by BPDB's
inability to take effective decisions on additional works which were found to be necessary when the
machines were dismantled. Another major delay occurred when a dispute arose on a large meter supply
contract, leaving the consignment uncleared at the harbor for an extended period, incurring heavy
demurrage charges in the process.
15.  The lack of flexibility in securing additional funds when such needs arose due to unforeseen
circumstances was also responsible for a major delay in commencing the distribution works. The first of
such delays occurred when Credit disbursements were suspended. Inability to proceed with key material
supply contracts (using BPDB's own resources) substantially delayed project execution. Subsequently, a
similar delay occurred when the pole supplier (who was successful in winning three supply contracts)
failed to provide the materials in a timely manner. Again, the resulting time delay could have been
substantially reduced had BPDB been able to mobilize financing from its own resources to secure the
required poles on an emergency basis.
D. Proiect Sustainability
16.    The physical works under the distribution component are expected to be completed only by about
June 1999, at which time the main technical shortcomings of the distribution systems in the project towns
will have been addressed. Most of the erection works have already been completed (100% of distribution
substations and about 80% of the balance works'). These works have also been carried out generally to
satisfactory standards. Much of the remaining work consists of the rehabilitation of service connections
and securing legal connections to unauthorized supplies in the project areas. BPDB's efforts so far at
addressing this aspect have been below expectations, and it is still to be seen whether an improvement of
performance of this crucial aspect will be accomplished. Unless this aspect is completed satisfactorily,
non-technical loss levels will remain at unacceptable levels resulting in poor financial returns on
investments.
Line and transformer erection and rehabilitation works



5
17.   The other two major components, rehabilitation of the Kaptai hydro plant and the Ishurdi grid
substation augmentation are expected to meet their objectives in the long term. These components have
been completed and are functioning satisfactorily. The Kaptai rehabilitation will serve a useful part in the
capacity constrained power system, without which load shedding would have increased substantially and
high cost liquid fuel generation resorted to for part of its output. The augmentation of the Ishurdi grid
substation will also provide greater reliability as well as the ability to transport a greater amount of power
from the low-cost gas-fired power plants in the east to meet the loads in the western and northern zones.
18.    An Operational Plan has been prepared by BPDB to monitor performance of project components.
A greater focus on key commercial aspects (reduction of non-technical losses, improved collections
perfornance and tariff adjustments) is necessary to ensure that project objectives are met. On the whole,
based on present performance levels, the project objectives are not deemed to be sustainable in the absence of
major reforns in the power sector.
E. Bank's Performance
19.   Identification of the technical requirements of the beneficiary (both during preparation/appraisal
in 1986 and the subsequent restructuring in 1993) was fully satisfactory. However, IDA's assessment of
BPDB's ability to improve its commnercial and financial performance in the absence of fundamental
institutional changes was unrealistic. Furthermore, the project required GOB to establish DESA as an
independent distribution entity, but provided no program of assistance in either establishing the new
institution or in developing its corporate strategy. The risks of establishing this new entity were poorly
identified. In fact, DESA was not a party to the project agreements and there was no instrument under
the Credit for IDA to support or oversee its development.' These arrangements prevented any effective
dialogue between IDA and DESA. In this context it may be noted that, at time of project preparation and
appraisal, there was only very limited experience in the reform of integrated power utilities of developing
countries and Bank's policies had not shifted to a more proactive role towards unbundling,
commercialization and privatization of parastatal utilities2.
20.  On realizing that the Credit covenants would not be met and that the performance of BPDB was not
showing any signs of improvement, IDA took timely actions in suspending Credit disbursements
(September 1991, 19 months after Credit effectiveness). Thereafter, following some progress in BPDB's
commercial operations and the establishment of DESA, the suspension was lifted. However, the Bank
suspended the preparation of new projects (notably, a power plant rehabilitation project on which
preparatory work was almost completed). Instead, urgently needed requirements (Kaptai power plant
rehabilitation and Ishurdi substation augmentation) were introduced in the current project at the time it
was restructured. IDA's actions in this phase was designed to initiate a dialogue with GOB on the need
for an overall sector reform program, while assisting GOB to offset the immediate impact of withholding
new lending during the ongoing dialogue.
21.    Although new covenants were included when the project was restructured to monitor the
performance of DESA, there was still no substantive program developed to ensure that DESA would meet
these requirements. Following project restructuring, BPDB and DESA continued to be in default under
the new collections covenant as well as the audit covenant. IDA refrained from taking any further actions
and even extended the Closing Date on two occasions, albeit to meet exceptional circumstances. These
actions were designed to maintain a dialogue with GOB on sector reform, which was carried on in parallel
to the supervision of the project.
22.  The project was regularly supervised by IDA staff, with 11 field missions, including an in-depth
mid-term review. The Bank's field office staff in Dhaka participated actively in the supervision work
throughout the project. Towards the latter stages, the team functioned without an economist and financial
analyst, in view of staff constraints. While IDA's major effort in the sector turned towards the dialogue
I Assistance to DESA was provided under ADB's Ninth Power Loan
2 c.f. 'The Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector' by the Industry and Energy Department, published in 1992



6
on overall reforms, project supervision efforts were directed towards improving BPDB's efforts in
addressing the reduction of non-technical losses and the collection of arrears. To this end, project savings
were utilized to secure additional service connection materials, to rectify the extensive extent of
dilapidated consumer services within the project towns and the purchase of additional meters and
associated equipment. However, this effort also failed to develop the expected performance
improvements.
23.    Overall, IDA's performance has been rmixed. Major risks involved in establishing a new sector
institution without adequate preparation and support facilities were insufficiently addressed. Subsequent
attempts made to utilize the project as a means of developing a reform dialogue with GOB was creditable.
F. Performance of Borrower/Beneficiary
24.  BPDB fully cooperated with IDA supervision missions, and progress reports were prepared
regularly and were generally satisfactory for monitoring project activities. Counterpart funds as originally
planned were provided in a timely manner during implementation. However, inability to generate
additional funds to meet exigency situations affected project implementation adversely. The quality of
services performed by consultants was satisfactory. The quality of the works carried out is also in general
satisfactory (subject to the issue of inadequate rehabilitation of service connections, discussed in para 25
below) However, many project components suffered time delays: an initial delay occurred as a result of
credit suspension; subsequent delays occurred due to inability to take effective action with respect to an
errant pole supply contract, delays of sorting out differences on a major meter supply contract, and
inability to take timely decisions on additional work identified as required in the Kaptai rehabilitation.
The processing of many procurement activities was also delayed, some of which concerned urgent
requirements, such as for the cyclone rehabilitation works and additional materials required for loss
reduction.
25.    The project offered an excellent opportunity to address the excessive non-technical losses in the
16 project towns. Addressing this problem in the absence of an investment project of this nature is often
difficult owing to the lack sufficient materials to rectify the large extent of dilapidated service
connections. In many locations it is also difficult to distinguish the illegal connections from the
legitimate ones as there is little difference in their physical condition. If the dilapidated service
connections were replaced while carrying out the project works (and illegal connections regularized at
this time) a substantial amount of non-technical loss reduction could have been achieved'. Another
generic difficulty in addressing non technical losses is that many distribution networks have insufficient
capacity to meet additional load. This restricts the utility's capability to service legitimate applications
for new services, thus encouraging illegal behavior from consumers as well as utility employees. The
construction of the project works should have enabled BPDB to obtain better cooperation from the public
and in correcting the illegal behavior of errant consumers. BPDB should have utilized the advantages
offered by the project to embark on an aggressive exercise to reduce non-technical losses while carrying
out major network improvements under the project. In fact, an effort in this direction was made (during
the latter stages) particularly focusing on two project towns, but the exercise was short lived and did not
meet expectations. Efforts at carrying out a targeted loss reduction exercise in the project towns also
suffered due to the lack of coordination between project staff (carrying out the improvement/rehabilitation
work) and the operational staff (identifying unorthodox consumers and correcting irregular metering
installations). Progress to date is inadequate with most project towns exhibiting losses at about 20%
(which is more than double the expected standards). However, reduction in the level of losses has been
achieved in nine of the 16 project towns (although reductions of the order of 7 to 10 percentage points
have been achieved in these towns, losses are still at unacceptably high levels)2.
It is hoped that BPDB will attend to this activity within the coming months with the materials purchased under the
project.
2 See Annexure I of Appendix B



7
26.    There was also a number of organizational and procedural delays affecting project progress.
BPDB was unable to appoint qualified financial officers to effectively manage this important function in a
timely manner (a covenant under the Credit). Submission of audit reports was consistently delayed.
Although DESA was established in 1991, differences remain with respect to the settlement of assets
transferred. Further there is no commercial contract between the two organizations for the supply of
electricity and the payment for such services. BPDB's weakness in contract administration is referred to
in para 14. There are ongoing disputes with respect to three key contracts yet to be resolved (totaling in
excess of US$4 million).
27.    The direct result of the above shortcomings was the inability to improve operational performance,
particularly in reducing system losses and improving collection of bills.' Even though the revised targets
were less ambitious than the original financial covenants, both BPDB and DESA were unable to comply
with the new covenants at any time during the project (although some improvement, particularly in
system losses was demonstrated). The yearly performance against these covenants is provided below. In
view of these considerations, BPDB' s and DESA's overall performance in implementation is considered
to be deficient.
Performance Against Revised Covenants
BPDB                        DESA                        COMBIN'ED
Year    S.L.      Coll.    C/G.    S.L.       Coll.    C/I.      S.L.      Coll.    C/G.
(%)      (%)      Ratio    (%)       (%)      Ratio    (%)       (%)       Ratio
FY91              DESA not operational                           41.1      80.0     47.9
FY92              DESA not operational                           41.3      86.2     51.6
FY93    25.0      86.3      65.6     31.2      83.5     58.4     36.3      84.5     54.8
FY94    23.8      81.2      62.7     31.4     78.5      54.5     35.7      83.0     54.4
FY95    22.5      88.9      69.8     30.0      88.0     62.6     34.1      92.0     61.9
FY96    21.6      91.5      72.7     29.5      83.6     59.7     33.3      90.2     61.3
FY97    20.3      86.8      70.1     27.7      81.0     59.2     31.9      88.0     61.0
FY98    20.9      80.3      64.0     27.9     79.6      58.0     32.7      87.6     59.8
Covenanted ratios:
FY94                        69.0                        68.0                        61.0
FY95                        73.0                        74.0                        66.0
FY96 and after              76.0                        78.0                        70.0
Note:    S.L- system loss; Coll.- collections as % of billing; C/G- collections to generation ratio; C/I collections
to imports ratio. The covenants are only for BPDB and DESA and the combined ratios are presented
only to show how these translate to sector performance
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.    The project is expected, on the whole, to achieve its physical objectives in the improvement of
distribution systems, power plant rehabilitation and grid substation augmentation. The Kaptai plant
rehabilitation costs were substantially below estimates (in spite of increased items of work identified
during implementation), enabling the extent of work in other components to be increased to meet needed
requirements. Implementation of the project work was however, affected adversely by various delays in
procurement matters and contract processing.
' All of BPDB's shortcomings are also reflected in DESA



8
29.    Achievement of the development objectives suffered due to (a) unrealistic expectations of the
results of establishing a new institution (DESA) and in improving the performance of a large parastatal
(BPDB) in the absence of fundamental changes in the overall commercial structure of the sector, and (b)
inadequate identification of the issues involved and preparatory work required when establishing new
institutions. The institutional and financial objectives have not been achieved. Success in these areas will
depend on the sector reform program presently under consideration by GOB. Accordingly the overall
assessment of the project is considered unsatisfactory.
H. Future Operation
30.  An Operational Plan was not agreed during appraisal with GOB/BPDB. However, such a
monitorable plan was agreed during the implementation completion mission (July 1998). The plan
identifies key performance monitoring indicators for the major project components as well as for the
overall commercial performance of BPDB. Implementation of the plan will be monitored by IDA as part
of its continuing dialogue with GOB on future operations.
31.  The Bank has supported the Bangladesh power sector with seven operations' since 1979, three for
BPDB, three for REB and one adjustment credit. While operations with REB have been, in general,
successful, those with BPDB have failed to achieve their development objectives. This is due to the
inappropriate institutional structure and ingrained weaknesses of the parastatal system. BPDB and the
new distribution utility (DESA), performed poorly as demonstrated by the high levels of system losses
(mainly due to power theft) and accounts receivables. Unless drastic measures are taken, both institutions
will be unable to finance their expected share of the heavy investment burden required in the corning
years. In this context, IDA (together with other sector donors) has maintained a continuing dialogue with
GOB on the need to introduce fundamental reforms to unbundle, commercialize and introduce substantial
private sector participation in the sector. GOB has accepted, in principle, the necessity introducing
reform measures and made some progress in certain aspects.2 Future IDA strategy will be targeted to
introducing these reforms and building up a commercialized power sector with operational
responsibilities undertaken by independent operators supervised by a regulatory body. To this end, IDA
iis presently engaged in a dialogue with GOB on introducing the needed sector reforms through an
Adaptable Lending Program (APL) operation which will provide for the unbundling, commercialization
and privatization of the generation, transmission and distribution activities in a phased manner.
I. Key Lessons Learned
32.    The following is an attempt to draw lessons from the shortcomings observed in planning and
implementing of the project:
Linkages between project activities and key aspects related to objectives:
(a) The project required the separation of DESA from BPDB but did not finance DESA's activities.
Nor was assistance provided in establishing DESA or in providing for its institutional
development (which was assumed to be supported by other multi-lateral and bi-lateral donors).
Such poor linkages with a key aspect of the project are not conducive to achieving project
objectives. In projects of this nature, IDA should ensure that sufficient instruments are available
under the project itself to effectively supervise important activities and contribute towards
improving the borrower's performance.
Inclusive of the present credit
While implementation of the decisions taken by the interministerial committee on power sector reforms (1992-
1994) has been slow, progress in private power generation projects is commendable. Preparatory work is also in
progress for the establishment of a transmission company and the drafting of a new Electricity Act.



9
Structural changes and institutional development:
(b) The irreversible effects of the initial steps taken in establishing a new institution (such as DESA)
should not be lightly addressed. Such events are major changes requiring a careful analysis of the
overall framework of sector operations, and ad-hoc solutions with short-term goals should be
avoided. Furthermore it is essential to carry out up-front preparatory work to ensure that the
obstacles to the success of the new institutions are specifically addressed.
(c) Long standing operational deficiencies in parastatals are not easily redressed by technical
assistance programs (in the present instance carried out under complementary projects funded by
other donors). Major changes in the business environment, service norms, terms and conditions
of employment and other fundamental issues need to be addressed.
(d) It is preferable to include key technical assistance programs within the main project; where this is
not possible, the linkages between different complementary operations should be strong.
Implementation of physical components:
(e) Contract management capabilities of implementing agencies are important to overcome
unforeseen problems which may occur during implementation. In many instances, the impact of
these problems could be mitigated with foresight and timely action without waiting passively for
events to run their usual course.
(f) Rehabilitation of major equipment is often planned without the benefit of detailed inspections by
dismantling the machinery, raising the possibility of requiring additional work during
implementation. This is a major risk and appropriate steps should be taken where possible to
minimize impact should such an exigency arise, and to arrange satisfactory contract resolution
measures (e.g., prior evaluation of alternatives available, obtaining prior rate quotations for
expected additional work at time of tendering-these rates may also form part of the evaluation
formula, etc.).
Implementation of distribution system improvement projects:
(g) Many of these projects concentrate on the main networks without adequate attention to the poor
condition of consumer service drops and meters (which are more important in the context of
commercial aspects). Project planning should include all aspects related to the successful
attainment of development objectives, in particular, to reducing the extent of non-technical losses
during project implementation.
(h) The coordination of the project and commercial operations personnel is essential to ensure that
issues pertaining to non-technical losses are addressed comprehensively.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLDESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Credit - 2016-BD)
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies        El             El              0l
Sector Policies               E              Dl                             El
Financial Objectives          0l             0                               l 0
Institutional Development     E              E              z               El
Physical Objectives           0l                            El 0     
Poverty Reduction             El             L              El              E
Gender Concerns                l             El             El 
Other Social Objectives       O              El             E               z
Environmental Objectives                     El             El              El
Public Sector Management      El             El             El
Private Sector Development    El             El             ElE
B. Project Sustainability       Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
O                     El                      1
Highl
C. Bank Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                El                                             l 0
Preparation Assistance        E                     El 
Appraisal                     E                     E                       z
Supervision                   E                                             El0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance      Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                   E                                             El
Implementation                E                     E
Covenant Compliance           El                    E
Operation (if applicable)     E                      l                      _
Hihly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
El             E              z               E



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     I Purpose                     Year of     Status
-T                                         |Approval I
Preceding Operations
C934-BD Greater Khulna Power  Improvement and development of the urban  1979        Closed
Distribution                 distribution networks in the four towns of the         6/30/86
Khulna district (Khulna, Bagerhat, Mangla and
Satkhira).
C1254-BD Ashuganj Thennal    Extension of the Ashuganj steam power plant    1982    Closed
Power                        with two gas fired units of 150 MW each,               6/30/90
including boilers and ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment; a transmission line
between Ashuganj and Ghorasal including a
substation; and a simulator to train BPDB' s
staff for the operation of steam power plants.
C1262-BD First Rural         Install new electricity distribution networks in   1982  Closed
Electrification              seven self-contained rural areas; rehabilitate         6/30/90
C1504-3                      existing distribution systems in these areas
operated by BPDB; and create seven new
member-owned PBSs and make them
operational.
C1633-BD Second Rural        Expand electricity supply in the rural areas.  1986    Closed
Electrification                                                                      12/31/93
C1648-BD Power Distribution    Expand and reinforce BPDB's transmission and   1986  Closed
and Transmission             distribution systems to meet the forecast load at      12/31/92
least cost, stabilize system voltage, increase
system reliability, and reduce transmission
losses. Technical assistance to: (i) strengthen
BPDB's financial management functions (ii)
improve its financial viability through a tariff
study, and (iii) extend its training facilities.
C1999-BD    Energy   Sector Provision of foreign exchange for energy     1989       Closed
Adjustment Credit            imports and support to the Government's reform         12/31191
program for the energy sector.
Following Operations
C2129-BD Third Rural         Substitute Power at least cost for imported  1990      Ongoing.
Electrification Project      petroleum products and to strengthen the               Closing
performance of REB and PBSs.                           date 12/99



12
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned                   Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                                                              October 1986
Preparation                                                                 December 1986 - February 1988
Appraisal                                                                   June/July 1988
Negotiations                                                                January 1989;
Completed March 1989
Board Presentation                                                          May 16, 1989
Signing                                                                     June 7, 1989
Effectiveness                                                               February 12, 1990
Midterm Review                                                              June 1993
Project Completion                    December 31, 1994                     June 30, 1999
Credit Closing                        June 30, 1995                         June 30, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92 I FY93   FY94  FY95          FY96 I FY97  I FY98   FY99   Tta
Appraisal Estimate    4.0    7.3   16.5   18.3   16.5   13.1   11.3       --       --      --      --    87.0
Actual              --     3.0    2.6    10.6   11.2   12.2   14.5       10.6     6.1      12.1    4.2    87.2
Actual as % of             41     16      58     68      93    128        --       --      --      --   100.2
Estimate
Date of Final    November 24,1998
Disburserment



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Proiect ImDlementation
I. Key implementation              Estimated         Status on July 1998    Expected completion
indicators in                  completion                                       date
SAR//President's Report       date in SAR
| Jiiadwmorks:
1. Completion of distribution  December 31, 1995    80% completed      June 30, 1999
works in 16 Towns                                                                            l
2. Completion of primary   December 31, 1995    100% completed          Completed
substations
3.. Reactive compensation by  December 31, 1995   80% completed        June 30, 1999
installation of capacitors
Institutonafeve(ent:                                                                        l
1. Establish DESA as an   DESA operational by  DESA was established in   With ADB support
independent utility to    July 1, 1990         October 1991. However    DESA's operations are
undertake distribution in                      DESA functions as a      being handed over to
Dhaka area                                     parastatal and major     DESCO (established
institutional problems  under the Companies
persist                 Act). While the hand
over has begun it is
premature to forecast an
expected date for
completion.
2. Carry out a long tern loss                  While a number of improvements have been made to
reduction program                              monitoring systems progress has been marginal
3. Delegate administrative,    July 1, 1989    Certain functions delegated but system is not effective
financial and commercial                       in combating widespread inefficiencies
powers to Zonal Chief
Engineers
4. Fill up vacant positions of                 Few key positions filled but fmnancial discipline of
Chartered Accountants in                       company is weak
financial cadre
5. Complete aging analysis   LT industrial by  Aging analysis has not been kept current
of debt and update on a    April 30, 1989 and
quarterly basis            others by June 1990
5. Computerization program   This item was
for distribution planning and   dropped from project
accounting function
II. Modified indicators
:P1 swa( works:
1. Rehabilitation of Kaptai                    Dec. 15, 1997 and Nov. 11, 1997 respectively. PAC
hydro units 1 & 2                              issued Dec. 17, 1997. FAC due September 1999
2. Augmentation of Ishurdi                     March 1996
grid substation                                FAC issued May 1998



14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
I. Key operating indicators in                   Estimated              Actual (as at July 1998)
SAR/President's Report
Specific indicators for the operational phase of the project was not included in the SAR or the President's
Memorandum. However overall performnance parameters agreed for the institution as a whole included the
following:
1. Accounts receivables              3.5 months by June 30, 1989   8 months in FY97
9 months in FY 98
2. Return on revalued assets         Ratio to increase each year up  0.8% in FY97
to 8% by FY93, and each
fiscal year thereafter
II. Modified indicators
During restructuring of the project in 1992 a new set of (institutional) targets was established in lieu of the previous
covenants, (based on a combination of system losses and bill collection ratios) as follows:
1. BPDB collections to generation ratio   Ratio to increase to 76% by    Increased to 72.7% in FY96 but
FY96 (and thereafter)      has dropped to 65.4% in FY98
2. DESA collections to imports ratio  Ratio to increase to 78% by    Increased to 61.3% in FY96 but
FY96 (and thereafter)      has dropped to 59.0% in FY98
Ill. Other indicators
During the ICR mission, a set of activities and performance indicators for the operational phase was discussed and
agreed with BPDB. These are provided in Appendix A
Table 7: Studies Included in Proiect
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal/redefined       Status            Impact of study
No studies were
funded by the project



15
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   Actualllatest estimate (US$ million)
Local  Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Item             costs    costs      Total       costs      costs       Total
1.Material and equipment   15.2    55.3         70.5       17.8      67.2         85.1
2.Transport erection and civil  11.0  1.3        12.3      11.4       19.3        30.7
works
3.Land acquisition          0.9       -          0.9        0.5                    0.5
4.BPDB administrative costs   1.5     -           1.5       5.5                    5.5
5.Technical assistance and  1.0      0.1          1.1      2.3        3.3          5.63
Consultancy
6.Total Base Price         29.6    56.7         86.3
7.Total Project Cost       41.7    68.7       110.4         37.6      89.8        127.4
(including contingencies)
8.Interest during construction   10.9  -       10.9         18.4                  18.4
TOTAL                      52.6    68.7       1213          56.0      89.8        145.8
Table 8B: Proiect Financini
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)  Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local      Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Source           costs       costs       Total       costs       costs       Total
IDA                      18.3        68.7        87.0                   89.8        89.8
BPDB/GOB (Equity)        24.9         -          24.9        56.0                   56.0
GOB (Loan)                9.4         -           9.4
TOTAL                   52.6         68.7      121.3         56.0       89W8       145.8



16
Table 9A: Economic Analysis: 16 Towns Power Distribution ComPonent
1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-2000  2000-2001  2001-2002
l______                             to  2019
[Costs (in Taka millions)
A) Investment:
Foreign                23.0    259.0    334.0       378.0     333.0     113.0     159.0     174.0
3cal                  11.2     52.0      39.2      133.6     68.8      105.6     155.2     141.6     150.4
Total investment       34.2    311.0    373.2       511.6     401.8     218.6     314.2     315.6      150.4
(B) Cost of supply                         0.0      101.5     236.1     362.8     581.3     800.9    1016.0      1254.4       1254.4      1254.4
TOTAL COST             34.2    311.0    373.2       613.1     637.9     581.4     895.5    1116.5    1166.4      1254.4       1254.4      1254.4
3enefits [usino average revenue)                                            2_76_2_84_2_93__
Av. revenue (Taka/kWh)                              2.29      2.29      2.39       2.49      2.68      2.76       2.84         2.93        3.01
otal revenue (Tk mn)                               113.0     246.3     412.9     614.9     893.3    1167.3      1484.4       1528.9      1574.8
Net revenue (Tk mn)    -34.2   -311.0   -373.2    -500.0    -391.7    -168.5    -280.6    -223.2       0.8       229.9        274.5       320.3
from tariffs              .               .
EIRR (using tariff)     7%
3enefits (using estimate of WTP)
Total sales (GWh)                         496.4     545.7     603.7     669.1     743.8     830.1     919.8      1019.1
Incremental sales (GWh)                             49.3      107.3     172.7     247.4     333.7     423.4      522.7        522.7       522.7
Benefits of Increm. consu ption                     162.5     354.0     593.5     883.9    1284.1    1677.9      2133.8       2197.8      2263.7
Net benefits (Tk mn)   -34.2   -311.0   -373.2    -450.6    -283.9       12.1     -11.6     167.6     511.5      879.3        943.3       1009.3
EIRR (using WTP)       24%
Notes:
Investments: assumed to have a 20-year life from cornletion.
Local costs: excludes IDC, CD & VAT;+A57 have been multiplied by SCF of 0.8
Cost of supply: Actual fuel, O& M, personnel and administrative expenses on a kWh (sales) basis (2.4 Tk./kWh in 1998, projected constant thereafter).
Sales: 1992-97 actual data; projected to rat historical rate 10.8%  .a. from 1998 to 2000 and then held constant.                    __        __
Economic benefits: Two methods have been used to compute economic benefits
The first is based only on sales revenue
In the second, the WTP has been computed using a straight line demand curve through the poire ndaerage tariffs and recorded/expected sales.
The elasticity at the recorded sales Point is - 0.5 and demand is capped at 1.5 times average tariff
BPDB's retail prices have been computed up to 998afterwhichprices are escalated at 3% to reach 3.25 Tk./kWh in FY2002/03. Thereaftertheprices are held constant.
The benefits from technical loss reduction and improved system reliability have not been included.  ___                                       _
Sensitivity analysis (carried out in the WTP method):              __
When benefits of unrecorded economic consumption (estim     a 1    f s   s tken EIRR is 27%    _
If sales continue to increase up to 2005 at 10% p.a. ElRR increases to 27%0
If the av. weighted WTP used in the A   k. 5.24/kW              ce for exchange rate changes, EIRR is 41%



17
Table 9B: Economic Analvsis; Kaptai Power Plant Rehabilitation
1994-95    1995-96    1996-97    1997-98    1998-99   1999-2000 -2000-2001  2001-2002
Costs (in Taka millions)                                                                                  to 2019
Foreign                    90.0       314.0      115.0       110.0      61.0
Local                      16.3        9.9        7.5        21.1        2.4
Total investment costs     106.3      323.9      122.5       131.1       63.4
0 & M costs                                       5.5         5.5        5.5         5.5        5.5         5.5
T&D costs                                        223.5       223.5      432.1       506.6      506.6       506.6
Total Costs                106.3      323.9      351.5       360.1      501.0       512.1      512.1       512.1
Benefits ( in Taka millions)  __
Energy Output (GWh/yr.)                          150.0       150.0      290.0      340.0       340.0      340.0
Energy delivered (GWh/yr.)                       109.5       109.5      211.7      248.2       248.2      248.2
Retail tariff rate         2.40       2.50        2.60       2.80       2.88        2.97       3.06        3.15
Value of energy output                           284.7       306.6      610.5       737.3      759.4       782.2
Net benefits              -106.3     -323.9      -66.8      -53.5       109.5      225.2       247.3      270.1
EIRR:      27%
Notes:
Rehabilitated units are assumed to have a 20 year life
Local costs of project (excl. IDC, CD & VAT), have been multiplied by SCF of 0.8
O & M costs = 1 % of investment/year
T&D costs have been worked out at average incremental csts of    Tk./kWh generated
E ydelivered based on firm average annual output estimate less 15% for technical losses
Benefits are valued by multiplying net energy consumed by the average retail rate in each year
-- actuals_up_to_1998_and_projections_thereafter_(as_per Table_9A).



C
X
18
t
Pagc I of 3
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-nant                Original      Revised
Type                     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Agreemcent             Section                     Status       Date           Date          Description of Covenant                          Comments
Development Credit     3.01(d)         12          CP           07/01/90        -            GOB and BPDB shall take action required to cstablish   Basic problems of institutional inefficiency remains. A
Agreement                                                                                    DESA as a fully autonomous entity by March 31,   new company (DESC) has been established under the
1990 and have it start operations by July 01, 1990.  Companies Act to gradually take over the distribution
system from DESA and commercialize operations.
DESC commenced activitics by taking over the Mirpur
area in September 1998.
3.04           5           CP           04/30/94         -            GOB shall by April 30, each year:                The Power System Master Plan completed in 1995 is
(annually)                                                                    still generally valid. BPDB has recently undertaken a
(a)      review with association the             review of generation and transmission expansion with
implementation of the priority investment   IDA assistance.
program for BPDB for the current fiscal
year.
(b)      prepare for IDA's comments the priority
inivestment program including sources of
financing for the subsequent three fiscal
years.
4.01(b)         I          CD           03/31/94                      GOB shall ensure that the accounts of (i) Statement of   The audited statement for FY97 was supplied on
(annually)                   Expenditures and (ii) Special Accounts are maintained   October 28, 1998, a delay of 7 months.
according to sound accounting practice and audited
accounts are submitted to IDA within nine months of
end of fiscal year.
4.02            1          C             03/31/94        -            DESA shall have its accounts and financial statements   The audited statemenit for FY97 was finalized in
(annually)                   audited and fumish to IDA no later than nine months    January 1998
after the end of each financial year certified copies of
financial statements and auditor's report.



19
Page 2 of 3
Cove-nant                 Original       Revised
Type                      Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Agreement               Section                      Status        Date           Date           Description of Covenant                            Comments
3.06            2           NC            (annually)       -            DESA to maintain an average ratio of collections to  C/I ratio is substantially below targets (59%). In
imports of at least:                              particular collection perfonnanec is unsatisfactory with
only 80% recovery of billing. DESA was never able to
68% in FY94                             meet its covenants
74% in FY95
78% thereafter
Project Agreement       2.06             5           SOON             -            -             Erection works under Parts A and B shall be        Over 80% of the works have been completed. All
completed by December 31, 1995.                   works are expected to be finalized by June 1999.
4.01(a)         I           CD            03/31/94                      BPDB shall have its accounts and financial statements   BPDB's audit report for FY97 supplied on October 28,
(annually)                    audited and furnish to IDA not later than nine months    1998 (a delay of 7 months).
after the end of each financial year certified copies of
financial statements and auditor's report.
4.02            2           NC            (annually)       -            BPDB shall maintain an average ratio of monthly    C/G fatio dechned in FY97 (70.1 %) and is 68.3% for
collections to gross electricity generation of at least:    the 12 months upto 2/98. The main reason is the drop
69% for FY94                             in collection (91.5% in FY96, 86.8% in FY97, and
73% for FY95 and                         85.3% for 12 month upto 2/98)
76% thereafter
4.04            2           NC            06/30/90         -            BPDB shall by June 30, 1990 complete an aging      Previous aging analysis carried out is not applicable
analysis of its accounts receivables in a manner  now and an updated aging analysis is required
satisfactory to IDA and carry out a collection program
in accordance with an agreed dated action plan.   Collections performance has been erratic with cugrent
receivables upto 10 months of billing
Schedule 2:     5           C                                           BPDB shall maintain a Project Implementation Unit,    Project implementation organization is satisfactory.
item I                                                                  including a Project Coordinator, satisfactory to IDA.



20
Pap e3of 3
Cove-nant                Original       Revised
Type                     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Agreement               Section                     Status       Date           Date           Description of Covenant                           Comments
Schedule 2:     5           C                                          BPDB shall maintain 4 divisions under the supervision   Project implementation organization is satisfactory.
item 2                                                                 of qualified executive engineers to be responsible for
the Project works.
Schedule 2:     5           CD           06/30/89        -             By June 30,1989 BPDB shall take action to delegate    The work culture has not changed substantially in the
item 3(a)                                                              adequate administrative, financial and commercial  organization. Only few ESUs show continuous
powers to Zonal Chief Engineers.                 performance improvements over time.
Schedule 2:     5           CD           08/31/89        -             (a) Prepare program for the reduction of technical  Although monitoring procedures have improved
item 4                                                                     and non-technical losses for IDA's comments by    corrective action and implementation efforts are
August 31, 1989.                             clearly insufficient to address the problem at hand.
(b) Thereafter, timely carry out such a program.
Key
Covenant tvpes:
I  Accounts/audit                                                                                8  Indigenous people
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                                     9  Monitoring, review, and reporting
3  Flow and Utilization of project funds                                                         10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4  Counterpart funding                                                                           11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5  Management aspects of the project or executing agency                                         12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6  Environmental covenants                                                                       13 Other
7 Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C      = covenant complied with                               CD     = complied with after delay
NC     = not complied with                                    SOON  = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP     = complied with partially                             NYD   = not yet due
Covenant Effectiveness:
I.       Although DESA was created as a separate body it is not an autonomous institution. The creation of DESA has failed to resolve the problem of high system losses and poor collections. Additional covenants to ensure the
efficiency of the new institution should probably have been applied.
2.       Both BPDB and DESA are clearly not organized to resolve the poor performance in system loss and collections and it is unlikely that they will be able to achieve the revised credit covenants pertaining to
collection/generation (C/G) and collections/import (C/1) ratios in the absence of major sector reform.



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All Bank Policies complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Stage of
project cycle         Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal                                                           52.3        120.0
Appraisal                                                                          20.5        50.5
Negotiations through                                                               31.2        80.4
Board approval                        X                    __________
Supervision                                                                       221.5       445.0
Completion                                                                         10.1        27.8
TOTAL                                                                             335.6       723.7



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized      Implemnen-    Develop-
Month/        Number           staff skills      tation         ment        Types of
Stage of project cycte    year         of persons       represented        status      objectives    problems
Identification         10/86          1              ECN
Preparation            12/86          2              ECN, EGR
Preparation           6@87            2              EGR, FNA
Preparation            9/87           5              ECN, EGR, FNA
Pre-appraisal          2/88           5              ECN,EGR,FNA                                 _
Appraisal              6/88           6              ECN,EGR,FNA          _
Post-appraisal         10/88          5              ECN, EGR, FNA
Post-appraisal         3/89           1              EGR
Post-appraisal         7/89           1              EGR
Supervision 1          5/90           3              EGR, FNA, OPN       2             2             PM
Supervision 2          6/90           1              EGR                 Not rated
Supervision 3          11/90          3              EGR, FNA,PGM        3             2             PR,FP,LC
Supervision 4          4/91           3              EGR, FNA,PGM        3             2             PR,FP,LC
Supervision 5          12/91          3              EGR. FNA,PGM        3             2             PR,FP,LC
Supervision 6          3/92           5              EGY, EGR, FNA       Not rated
Supervision 7          11/92          1              PCR                 Not rated
Supervision 8          11/92          5              EGR,                Not rated
FNA,PCR,PGM
Supervision 9          6/93           3              EGR, FNA,PGM         3            3             LC, FP
Mid-Term
Supervision 10         6/94           2              EGR, PGM            S             U             LC, FP
Supervision 11         3/95           3              EIGR, FNA,PGM       S             U             LC, FP
Supervision 12         9/95           3              EGR,                S             U             LC, FP
FNA,PGM
Supervision 13         7/96           4              EGR, FNA,PGM        S             U            LC, FP
Supervision 14         9/96           4              EGR, FNA,PGM        Not rated
Supervision 15         12/96          4              EGR,OPNPGM          Not rated      _
Supervision 16         3/97           3              EGR, OPN,PGM        Not rated
Supervision 17         5/97           4              EGR, FNA,PGM        S             U             LC, FP
Supervision 18         10/97          5              EGR,FNA,OPN,PG   Not rated
M
Supervision 19         12/97          1              FNA                 Not rated
Supervision 20         6/98           2              EGY,EGR             Not rated
Completion             7/98           4              EGR,ECN,            U             U             LC, FP
PGM,FNA
All missions involved terms of reference for multi-tasks within the Bangladesh power sector.
Key - Staff                                                     Types of Problems
EGR - Power Engineer                                            LC - Compliance with Legal Covenants
FNA - Financial Analyst                                         FP - Financial Performance
ECN - Economist                                                 PR - Procurement Progress
OPN - Operations Officer                                        PM - Project Management Performance
PGM - Program Officer
PCR - Procurement Assistant
MGR - Manager
EGY - Energy Speciahist



23
APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH: POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION, Cr. 2016-BD
July 16 to 30, 1998
Aide Memoire
1.   An IDA power sector mission comprising Messrs. Chrisantha Ratnayake (Senior Power Engineer), Sunil
Mathrani (Consultant), M. Iqbal (Energy Specialist) and Raihan Elahi (Consultant) carried out a power sector
mission during the period July 16 to 30, 1998. This Aide Memoire summarizes the missions findings and
agreements reached with the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) with respect to project
supervision and preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Power Distribution (16
Towns) Project, Credit 2016-BD which closed on June 30, 1998. A wrap-up meeting was held on July 29, 1998
to discuss the missions findings and organize preparatory work for the ICR. The mission would like to thank
the officials of the Economic Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Energy
and Mineral Resources (MEMR), the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), and Dhaka Electricity
Supply Authority (DESA) for the productive discussions, cooperation and assistance extended during the visit.
The Aide Memoire is subject to IDA management's review and concurrence.
2.   Background. A credit of SDR 64.7 million (equivalent to US$ 87.0 million) was approved by the
IDA Board on May 16, 1989, and became effective on February 12, 1990. The project objectives are to:
(i) expand and reinforce BPDB's distribution systems in the Project towns to meet forecast demand at
least cost; (ii) stabilize BPDB' s system voltage; (iii) increase BPDB' s system reliability; (iv) reduce
BPDBs' power losses in transmission and distribution; and (v) improve BPDB's organizational and
institutional performance. Besides the physical components the project also included the first step of a
restructuring exercise and distribution activities in the greater Dhaka area was to be transferred to a new
entity, the Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA) to be established as a fully autonomous entity by
March 31, 1990 with commercial operations to commence by July 1, 1990.
3.   In view of poor operational performance, default in meeting the financial covenants and delay in
institutionalizing DESA, the project disbursement was suspended from September 04, 1991 to February
12, 1993. Following the lifting of suspension a mid term review was carried out in June 1993 and IDA
agreed to GOB' s request to revise the project scope to include (a) the rehabilitation of two units at the
Kaptai power plant and (b) augmentation of the Ishurdi grid substation by a reallocation of credit
proceeds. At this time the financial covenants were also revised to reflect targets considered to be
achievable under existing institutional arrangements. The new financial covenants consisted of a
collections to generation (CIG) ratio for BPDB (increasing from 69% in FY 94 to 76% in FY 96 and
thereafter), and a collections to imports (C/I) ratio for DESA (increasing from 68% in FY 94 to 78% in
FY 96 and thereafter). The Closing Date of the credit was extended three times (one year at each time);
the first, at the mid term project restructuring; the second, due to strategic reasons on the resumption of
office by the new government; and the third, to enable credit savings to be used for the restitution of
networks damaged by the cyclone of May 1997.
Project components
4.   The project components inclusive of amendments included at the mid term review of June 1993,
and thereafter in June 1997 are as follows:



24
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 10
Distribution Component:
Part A    Erection or renovation of (i) 92 km of 33 kV lines, (ii) 535 km of 11 kV three phase and
single phase lines, (iii) 633 km of 400 volt lines and cables in Project towns
Part B    Erection and renovation of 1200 nos. 11 kV transformer stations (three phase and single
phase) totaling to 90 MVA, in Project towns
Part C    Erection of 20 nos. 33/11 kV substations, totaling to 175 MVA in Project towns
Part D    Installation of capacitors and related compensation equipment: (i) 250 MVAR at 33 kV in
BPDB's high voltage system; and (ii) 30 MVAR at 11 kV in the Project towns
Part E    Installation of metering equipment in BPDB's distribution system and acquisition and
utilization of meter test benches and meter sealing equipment
Part G    23 Utility vehicles, 38 motor cycles, communications and erection equipment for use in
Project towns
Part M    Rehabilitation of cyclone damaged networks in greater Chittagong area. (introduced in June
1997)
Generation and transmission system improvement:
Part F    Spares parts and testing equipment for power stations, HV substations and transmission
system (transferred for GOB funding in June 1993)
Part I    Rehabilitation of 2x40 MW Kaptai Hydro Generating Units 1 and 2. (introduced June 1993)
Part J    Augmentation of 230 kV substation at Ishurdi including addition of 2x75 MVA transformers
and related facilities.(introduced June 1993)
Technical Assistance:
Part K    Provision of technical assistance to BPDB in design, detailed engineering, bid evaluation and
construction supervision for carrying out Parts A through J (revised in June 1993)
Institutional strengthening:
Part H    Acquisition of 25 desk-top computers for improvement of commercial operations (transferred
for GOB funding in June 1993)
Part L    Institutional strengthening, restructuring and reorganization of BPDB (revised in June 1993)
Project Status
5.   Distribution component:   This component has been planned and executed for the area covered
by the administrative boundary of the district towns in view of GOB's policy of handing over the
networks outside the town limits to the relevant rural cooperative (Palli Bidyut Samiti, PBS). This
implies that project improvements generally cover only a part of the network maintained by the Electric
Supply Unit (ESU) responsible for each town. The 33/11 kV substations and 33 kV lines however, are
exceptions to this rule and will also serve the feeders extending beyond the district towns. Network
improvements required was originally planned in the late 1980's and delayed implementation (caused in
part by the suspension of disbursements) resulted in the need for substantial increase of investment
requirements. Fortunately, reduced prices of materials and equipment received during project
procurement enabled a substantially larger extent of work to be carried out. A comparison of the
originally estimated extent of work and that actually carried out by the project (inclusive of works in
progress) are as provided below:



25
APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 10
Physical Scope of Project Works
Originally estimated       Revised scope of work
New    Renovation          New       Renovation
(a) 33/11 kV substations (nos):
5to7.5MVA             5                5MVA:    4            2
10 to 15 MVA          14   .      I    IOMVA:    11           3
without transformers   3
(b) 33 kV lines            46         46               86          175
(c) II kV lines             145        77              180         110
(d) Combined 11/0.4 kV lines  161      152             213        295
(e) 0.4 kV lines           268         365             576        529
(f) Transformer stations
total kVA             71,740     19,000           159,100
(g) Replacement of consumer service installations:
Service drops              no specific provision       41,000
Meters                     no specific provision       12,000
6.   About 80% of the planned work (as revised) has been completed; all network components are
expected to be completed in December 1998 and remaining service connection
installations/rehabilitations etc. are expected to be completed by June 1999. With respect to the
additional work carried out in excess of the quantities originally planned the mission is satisfied that the
extra work in question is necessary and desirable for the sustenance of the concerned distribution systems.
Previous missions have also reviewed this aspect and agreed to the revised quantities. The additional
work has been necessitated due to the lack of funds for regular improvements (routinely required for
proper sustenance of distribution systems). The mission would like to highlight the need for regular
investment requirements in this respect and recommends that BPDB seek alternative arrangements (rather
than dependence on external project aid) to ensure that improvements to its distribution networks are
carried out on a regular basis.
7.   It is necessary that the network improvement under this component be carried out in association
with the objective of reducing the extent of non-technical losses (consumption not captured in the billing
process) which arise mainly from power theft, and defective metering. During project execution it was
observed that one of the main difficulties in reducing non-technical losses is the fact that many service
connections are in a dilapidated condition and it is not conveniently possible to identify the consumers
supplied from each distribution pole. To address this issue the replacement of service connections was
included as a specific item of work and a substantial amount of service connection materials were
obtained. It is also necessary to regularize the unauthorized connections detected during the new
construction and rehabilitation work carried out under the project by constructing new services and
including these consumers in the billing system. This work needs coordination with the commercial
operations unit of the ESU. Currently project implementation suffers from the inability to coordinate this
work and the mission recommends that BPDB addresses itself to this issue as a matter of utmost urgency.
At project completion it is expected that almost all services in the project areas will be of acceptable
standards and that uncaptured consumption will be reduced to the barest minimum.
8.   Reactive compensation improvement:  The project included the installation of capacitors in
BPDB's distribution systems both outside and within the project towns. This component was completed
in a timely manner reducing technical losses and providing benefits of increased line capacity.



26
APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 10
9.   Ishurdi Grid Substation Augmentation:   All planned work has been completed and the new
transformers and switchgear energized in March 1996. The final Acceptance Certificate (FAC) for this
wcrk was issued in May 1998. This substation serves as the link between the eastern and western parts of
the transmission system and serves the important function of bringing natural gas based generation to the
western part. Due to restrictions in generation capacity in the east the full benefits of the substation
augmentation (2 x 225 MVA to 3 x 225 MVA) is not realized at present. However, it is expected that the
increased capacity will have an important impact on operational efficiency and network reliability in
future years.
10.  Kaptai Hydro Project Rehabilitation:   The rehabilitation works on both machines have been fully
completed, both plants energized (unit No. 1 on December 15, 1997 and Unit No. 2 on November 11,
1997) and to date the plant operation is satisfactory. The provisional Acceptance Certificate (PAC) has
been issued effective from December 17, 1997 with a warranty period of 21 months. The original scope
of the rehabilitation work was increased to cover repairs to the discharge ring and replacement of the rotor
winding consequent to defects which were discovered after the machines were dismantled. The project
consultants recommended that these additional works be carried out to ensure the sustainability of the
rehabilitated equipment. Inclusion of this work was possible on account of the reduced prices obtained
from the original estimated costs.
11.  The contract terms for the rehabilitation work requires that 5 % of the contract fee be retained until
the Final Acceptance Certificate (FAC) which is due in September, 1999. BPDB has made a request for
the payment of the retention money against a bank guarantee to be encashed if there are any claims
against the contractor. However, the mission pointed out that this procedure is not acceptable to the Bank
and that expenditures not due by Credit Closing Date (June 30, 1998) is not eligible under the Credit
proceeds. BPDB will therefore make alternate arrangements for the 5% retention payment. Both BPDB
and the contractor have outstanding contractual claims yet to be resolved. The main issues in dispute are
BPDB 's claim for liquidated damages on account of delay in completion for both units and the
contractor's claim for price adjustment due for delays beyond contractor's responsibility and for
additional work required due to technical considerations. A delay of processing the extension of the
consultant's assignment led to some dislocation of project management functions. The extension of the
consultant's contract has since been finalized and it is expected that outstanding contractual issues will be
finalized shortly. BPDB assured the mission these matters will receive priority attention.
12.  Institutional strengthening/reorganization:   This component was included to enable the funding
of miscellaneous expenditures in connection with institutional development and sector restructuring. The
following expenditures were met from this component:
(i) office facilities, vehicles and computers for the Power Cell (established in MEMR to prepare and
facilitate a sector reform program); and
(ii) office facilities, vehicles and computers for the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh (PGCB) which
has been established to take over the transmission network of BPDB.
13.  Technical Assistance:   Technical assistance under the Credit was utilized for consultancy
services for the project management of the Kaptai rehabilitation (Part I), for designing distribution works
included in parts A, B and D, and for both design and project management of 33/11 kV substations under
Part C. The work of the consultants have been carried out satisfactorily.
14.  Project components to be financed by GOB: With the restructuring of the project in 1993, Part F
(spares for power stations, transmission equipment, etc.) and Part H (computerization of Regional
Accounting Offices and distribution planning) were to be funded in total by GOB, according to
requirements and availability of funds. With respect to Part F, no specific works were originally
identified. A number of urgent rehabilitation work of generation plant and grid substations have been



27
APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 10
carried out by restructuring other projects (particularly those of ADB) and from funds provided by GOB.
This component is thus indistinguishable from BPDB' s regular maintenance and project work and may be
treated as being taken out of the project scope.
15.  Part H (computerization of Regional Accounting Offices and distribution planning) has not been
specifically addressed by BPDB. However, a more comprehensive computerization of the billing system
in Chittagong Zone is under way with assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The original
project concept was for a limited exercise on a decentralized basis. Such an exercise would only suffice
for an interim period. At present GOB is considering a major restructuring and reform of the power
sector and the mission finds no objection to postponing decisions on this component until the future
structure of the individual ESUs are clarified.
BPDB's Operational Performance
16.  The project supervision over the years focused on improving BPDB's commercial performance for
which assistance was provided by complementary operations, notably the Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit (ESAC, Cr. 1999BD). Primary thrust of the improvements targeted was the development of
appropriate commercial operations procedures for meter reading, billing and collections. A number of
actions were taken by BPDB over the project lifetime to address deficiencies in these areas. These
included: (i) installing metering facilities to compute the losses of each ESU, (ii) setting monthly
distribution loss and collections targets for all ESUs and establishing an incentive/penalty scheme for
performance against targets, (iii) separation of responsibilities for metering and billing, (iv) amendments
to the Electricity Act to include recourse against corrupt employees and consumers, (v) establishing
mobile magistrate courts to enforce collections, and (vi) contracting out metering and billing functions in
selected ESUs. The supply area of the original Dhaka operations unit was also separated out forming the
Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (DESA) with the intention of making this organization function in an
autonomous manner according to commercial principles. However, DESA has been established as a
parastatal and there has been no difference in its operations practices. Improvement to DESA's
operations is being addressed by Asian Development Bank (ADB) supported operations. To address
these deficiencies a new company, Dhaka Electric Supply Company (DESC) has been established under
the Companies Act and is expected to gradually take over operations from DESA.
1.7. The combined performance of BPDB and DESA has improved from the situation persisting at
commencement of the Credit when overall collections to gross generation (C/G) was as low as 50%. By
1993/1994 the CIG ratio had risen to about 54% and a further improvement, to 61.9%, was recorded in
1996. Since then, the performance has been static with the current C/G ratio at 61.2%. In both BPDB
and DESA there has been a gradual improvement in system loss reduction averaging to about 1% per
year. Performance in collections have been more erratic. BPDB 's collections performance improved
upto FY96, achieving a level of 91.5% and declined thereafter to a current level of 85.3%. DESA's
performance in collections has been erratic over the years and is now at about 80.5%. (See Annex 11 for'
yearly performance on C/G and C/I ratios). From these results it is apparent that performance
improvement activities carried out so far have only produced limited success. Fundamental changes in
the ownership and structure of the distribution organizations are deemed to be necessary to bring
performance to acceptable levels. Currently both MEMR and BPDB are actively seeking altemative
solutions and a major sector restructuring to address these issues is expected in the near future. BPDB
also assured the mission that current efforts at performance improvement will continue in earnest while
the sector restructuring issues are being planned.
' This annex is now provided at para 27 of the main report



28
APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 10
Status of Covenants
18.  Audit reports and audited accounts:  The audit report on the project accounts and statement of
expenses for FY 97 as well as BPDB's audited accounts for FY 97 are outstanding (delay of 3 months)
and BPDB agreed to provide these reports by August 30, 1998. Previous audit reports raised a number of
issues from which the mission would like to highlight the following for urgent attention: (a) uncertainty
of the balances under accounts receivables due to poor accounting procedures and unreliability of the
records at the Electricity Supply Units (ESUs), (b) absence of aging schedules for accounts receivables to
verify provisions for bad debts, and (a) non-availability of asset registers leading to non-verification of
assets. During the project, special audit assignments were carried out on an annual basis in each of the
ESUs with a view to resolving irregularities in the consumer accounts. This work is not finalized and
BPDB agreed to pursue the matter until all consumer accounts are suitably verified and account balances
are deemed to be acceptable. DESA's audit report for FY 97 was finalized in January 1998. (This report
was only submitted to IDA recently and is currently under review). DESA's audit report for FY 96 and
FY 97 does not highlight any issues requiring attention with respect to accounting practices or procedures
although the audit report of FY 95 raised many material objections. It is thus uncertain whether the issues
raised in the audit report of FY 95 have indeed been resolved. However, DESA informed the mission that
a consultant has been appointed to review accounting issues with a view to rectify procedural
deficiencies.
19.  Compliance with covenants:   Key financial and operational covenants were simplified and
revised to a collections to generation (C/G) ratio for BPDB and a collections to imports (CII) ratio for
DESA during the credit restructuring in June 1993. Both organizations have not been able to achieve the
covenanted ratios in any year to date although BPDB came close to achieving the C/G ratio for FY 96.
Currently BPDB's C/G ratio is 68.3% against a covenanted figure of 76% and DESA's C/I ratio is 59%
against a covenanted figure of 78%. The current status of compliance with covenants is provided at
Annex 21.
Operations Plan
20.  The mission discussed and agreed with BPDB and DESA on the basis of an operations plan
(Annex 3)2 for the operational phase of the project. Some of the performance indices and targets are still
under review by BPDB and these will be finalized shortly with additional discussions with IDA, if
necessary. Since the distribution component of the project is not completed and the FAC is not issued
withl respect to the Kaptai rehabilitation, these have been included as project completion issues in the
operations plan. The main feature of the project is the network development in the 16 project towns. The
technical improvements carried out will not be of benefit to BPDB if corresponding improvements in
commercial performance is not realized. Accordingly, BPDB agreed to monitor closely the commercial
performance in the 16 towns and to ensure the sustainability of the project. Key issues to be addressed
are (i) capturing all unauthorized consumption to the billing system, (ii) validation of consumer accounts,
(iii) improving collections performance and disconnecting consumers who have more than (say) three
months of arrears, and (iv) verifying and calibrating all meters in project areas. The operations plan also
includes performance indicators for the overall utility commercial operations which was a major aspect in
IDA's dialogue with BPDB during project supervision and will remain a matter of concem in future
lending to the sector. Subsequent IDA missions will monitor these indicators and access BPDB's
performance.
This Annex is now provided at Table 10 to the main report
The Operations plan after finalization by BPDB is attached at the end of this Appendix



29
APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 10
Implementation Completion Report
21.        An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared in accordance with IDA's
guidelines for investment projects. The mission had very useful and productive discussions with
concerned project officers and other key staff of BPDB for the preparation of the ICR. The mission also
provided advice and support to BPDB for preparing its own contribution to the ICR. It was agreed that
BPDB will forward to IDA its evaluation report through ERD by November 15, 1998.
Project Completion
22.        The project enabled BPDB to carry out certain essential investments in the distribution,
transmission and generation sub-sectors and all components have been either essentially completed or is
to be completed shortly. IDA has provided a grace period of four months from credit closure (i.e. till
October 31, 1998) for submission of withdrawal applications against all remaining eligible expenditures.
BPDB will ensure that all remaining project activities will be satisfactorily concluded including:
(i) completion of the distribution work in the 16 Towns including rehabilitation of service connections
and meter replacements. While line construction work can be completed by December 1998 it is
expected that all work including regularizing the service connections will be completed in full by June 30,
1999;
(ii) preparation of a statement of materials issued for the 16 towns and transfers of any remaining
balances to maintenance stock with first preference of their use being given to the project towns;
(ii) monitoring of the Kaptai power plant during the guarantee period, issue of the FAC, settlement of
outstanding differences with the contractor and settlement of retention fees.
23.        The expected final credit disbursements are provided at Annex 41 and a sum of about US$
3.5 million is expected to be canceled.
This Annex is omitted (see Tables 8A and 8B of the main report)



30
APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROTECT
(Credit - 2016-BD)
Borrower's Operations Plan
Operational Issues                       Strategy                      PerformanceIndicators                                Timing
(A) PROJECT COMPLETION
16 Towns Distribution Works
Substantially all materials needed for the
project has been secured. However, the
following works need to be completed (after
June 1998).
MV 7 LV LINE ERECTION                    Complete work expeditiously    Completion of all outstanding works                 June 30, 1999
0.4KV line (new & renovation)   53%      (erection work in project is
11/0.4KV line (new & renovation)   57%    funded by GOB)
I KV line (new & renovation)   44%
33KV line (new & rehabilitation)   70%
11/0.4KV, 100KVA & 200KVA    27%
Transformer Installations
Rehab Service Connections       15%
Meter Replacement              30%
Kaptai rehabilitation
Construction work is complete. Issue of  Regular monitoring of plant   Issuance of Final Acceptance Certificate             September 1999 (if
final acceptance certificate due on      operation and intimation of any                                                    no defect is
September 17, 1999 after completion of   defects to contractor for                                                          detected)
guarantee period                         rectification



31
APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 10
Operational Issues                Strategy                           Performance Indicators                            Timing
(B) PLANT OPERATION
16 Towns Distribution Works
Distribution networks should be   Develop efficient maintenance      *  Monitor line and transformer loadings, power loss    Annually
maintained efficiently and regular  practice and implement improvements  and voltage drop in the line
investment made to meet demand    in a timely manner                 *  Plan augmentation/improvements required        Bi-annually
growth                                                               *  Budget suitable resources                      Annually
Achieve and maintain efficient    Monitor performance regularly and                                                    by        by
Commercial performance            develop focused approach to                                                          2000      2003
*  Loss reduction,                *  Losses (%)                                      *  22%       18%
*  Accurate and timely account    *  Collections/billings                           *  90%       100%
maintenance                   *  Accounts receivable (months)                    *  3 (m)    2 (m)
*  Collections of dues            *  No. of new consumers connected                 *  23,450   30,172
*  Energy Sales (GWh)                             *  810
*  Verification/validation of consumer accounts   *  80%      100%
*  No. of meters verified/calibrated              *  80%      100%
*  No. of unauthorized consumers                  *  80%      100%
___________________________________   .___________________  regularized/disconnected
Kaptai Rehabilitation
Ensure continued plant capacity and    Regular plant maintenance     *  Available capacity in MW  (unit 1 & unit 2)     40 + 40
efficient availability levels                                        *  Gross Generation in GWH/year                    340
(Avg from 1999 to 2003)
*  Outages in hours/year (avg from 1999 to 2003)
- planned                                     390
- unplanned                                   84



32
APPENDIX A
Page 10 of 10
Operational Issues                Strategy                           Performance Indicators                             Timing
Overall utility commercial operations
Develop sustainable utility operations  Short term:                                                                     by        by
with adequate cash generation to meet  Institute commercial discipline and,                                             2000      2003
future requirements               contracting out commercial activities   *  System losses (T&D) % on gross gen (including  *   19%  17%
and utilize private sector services   Auxiliary)
where possible                     *  System losses (Distribution only) % of import   *  21%      19%
*  Collections as % of billings                   *  94%       98%
Long term:                         *  Collections/Generation ratio                    *  75%      80%
Develop independent and fully      *  Operating ratio                                 *   1.0     1.2%
commercialized distribution entities    *  Debt service coverage ratio               *  0.5       1.0
*  Rate of Return                                 *  2%       5%
*  Contribution to Investment                     *  5%       10%



33
APPENDIX B
Page I of 10
BANGLADESH
POWER DISTRIBUTION (16 TOWNS) PROJECT
(Credit - 2016-BD)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION - BPDB
1. Borrower's Assessment
(a)   Introduction: In May 16, 1989 an IDA Credit of SDR 64.7 million (equivalent US$ 87.00 million)
was approved by IDA Board for GOB/ BPDB to plan, design & implement of 16-Town Power Distribution
Project, Installation of Capacitor Banks, Rehabilitation of Kaptai Hydro Unit, Institutional strengthening
including reorganization of BPDB etc.
(b)   Project Objectives: The objectives of the "Power Distribution (16-Towns) Project" as stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report, were to:
(i) Expand and strengthen the distribution systems in 16-Towns
(ii) Stabilize the system voltage
(iii) Reduce power system losses
(iv) Improve BPDB's operational efficiency and
(v)    Assist in the reorganization/ institutional strengthening of the power subsection
through the implementation of the key recommendations of the BPDB study.
In order to achieve the above objectives the modified Project works included the following
components:
Part - A:
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection or renovation of:
(i) About 92 kilometers of 33KV lines
(ii) About 535 kilometers of I 1KV 3-phase and single phase lines
(iii) About 633 kilometers of 400V lines and cables in the Project Towns (Narail,
Gopalganj, Shariatpur, Jhalakhati, Bhola,   Pirojepur, Rangamati, Chandpur,
Brahmanbaria,lshurdi, Netrokona, BhairabBazar, Munshiganj, Narayangonj, Gazipur &
Manikganj)
Part - B
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection or renovation of about 1200 distribution
substation of 90 MVA, 1 KV, 3-phase and single phase in the Project Towns.
Part - C:
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection of about 20 substations of 33/11KV 175MVA in
the Project Towns.
Part - D:
Acquisition and installation of capacitors and related compensation equipment:
(i) Of 250 Megavar at 33KV in BPDB's high voltage system and
(ii) Of 30 Megavar at 11 KV in the Project Towns.



34
APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 10
Part - E
Acquisition and installation of 3-phase and single phase meters, metering equipment and
meter seals in BPDB's distribution systems and acquisition and utilization of meter test
benches and sealing pliers.
Part - F:
Acquisition of spare parts and testing equipment for BPDB's power stations, high voltage
substations and transmission system.
Part - G :
Acquisition of about 23 utility vehicles, about 28 motor cycles, radio equipment and erection
equipment for use by BPDB in the Project Towns.
Part - H:
Acquisition of about 25 desk-top computers for operation and engineering staff in BPDB's
regional accounts offices, and related familiarization of BPDB staff in the use of such
computers for billings and accounts and in distribution system planning.
Part - I:
Rehabilitation of two hydroelectric generating units (40 MW each) at Kaptai, including design
modification, replacement of equipment and acquisition of related spare parts.
Part - J:
Augmentation of the 230KV substation at Ishurdi, including acquisition and installation of
two additional transformers (of 75 MVA each) and related facilities.
Part - K:
Provision of technical assistance of BPDB in design, detailed engineering, bid evaluation and
construction supervision required for Part-A through J to the Project.
Part - L:
Institutional strengthening, including reorganization of BPDB.
(c)   Design:
(i) 16-Town Power Distribution Project:
Nine local Consultancy firms were appointed on March 27, 1990 for survey, planning, design and
supervision of distribution networks. In the Project Proforma there was no provision for the expatriate
consultancy service for this project. As per advice of the World Bank, one EDF consultant worked upto
April 30, 1992. The services of EDF consultant was financed from IDA Credit



35
APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 10
1648-BD allocated against 14-Towns Power Distribution Project. The local consultants under the guidance
of BPDB and Foreign Consultant completed survey, planning and design works. Bid documents for
procurement of materials and for turnkey construction of Sub-station were prepared by Design &
Inspection-II, BPDB. Design & Inspection-II, BPDB was engaged for checking & approval of drawings
submitted against Sub-stations by turnkey contractor. For all civil construction other than sub-station
works Design & Inspection-III, BPDB worked as consultant. Local consultants with the assistance of
BPDB prepared the tender documents for line installation works. They also performed partially supervision
job of Sub-station works.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Kaptai Hydro Unit.
The Unit no 1 & 2 of Kaptai Power Station were in deteriorating condition after an elapse of 30 (thirty)
years of operation. The scarcity of spare parts which caused irregular maintenance resulted in a progressive
deterioration of plant performance and reliability with consequent increase in operation and maintenance
cost. In order to restore the same into fully operational condition and also to improve its efficiency and
reliability, BPDB had undertaken the rehabilitation programme for unit no 1 & 2. BPDB engaged M/s.
Lahmeyer International, Germany as the Consultant of Project in two phase, firstly to prepare the Bid
Document after assessment of the scope of work and secondly for design and supervision of the work as
Engineer. After 1st stage of Bidding, amendment to bid document was also prepared by the Consultant in
consultation with the participating bidders and accordingly updated the bid document for second stage
bidding. During implementation stage M/s Lahmeyer International approved all the design and drawings
for the rehabilitation work, prepared and submitted by the contractor. The consultant performed all pre-
shipment and post landing inspection including supervision of field execution. Provisional Acceptance
Certificate were issued by BPDB on the basis of consultants recommendation.
(iii) Augmentation of Ishurdi 230KV Substation.
Due to increasing growth of load in the Western part of the country, to ensure reliable power supply and
reduce system losses BPDB needed to expand the capacity of Ishurdi 230KV Substation. BPDB engaged
its Directorate of Design & Inspection-I1 for design, preparation of Bid-Document and supervision of the
works. Design & Inspection-II successfully completed the assigned job.
(iv) Installation 33KV Capacitor Bank.
Bangladesh Power Development Board engaged the Directorate of Design & Inspection-II for the design
and implementation of the Project. After assessing the scope of the work Bid documents were prepared and
International tender was invited. The work was designed to facilitate inspection, maintenance, repair by
incorporating every reasonable precaution and provision for the safety of the operation and maintenance
personnel. The equipment was designed to operate satisfactorily under all variations of load and
temperature, as may be met in normal use under the variation in climatic conditions.
(d)   Implementation:
(i) 16-Town Power Distribution Project -
International tender for procurement of materials for distribution line and turnkey construction of 33/1 1KV
Sub-stations were invited. Evaluation of bids were made by Design & Inspection-II in consultation with
Project officials. After approval of evaluation by BPDB/ GOB and IDA contract for procurement! turnkey
constructions were awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Construction of 15 nos. new and
renovation of 8 nos. 33/11 KV Substations were completed on turnkey basis by M/s Siemens Ltd., India
(turnkey contractor). All the substations were energized within September, 1995. BPDB engaged a team for
witnessing testing and commissioning of the Sub-stations



36
APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 10
done by turnkey contractor. As per instruction of the team (testing commissioning) contractor performed
necessary rectification/ replacement works. Pre-shipment and post landing inspection were done by BPDB
officials against most of the procurements except sub-station works. All the distribution line works and
other civil works (non-residential & residential) except 33/1 1KV sub-stations were erected by contractors
engaged under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. A total of 33 (thirty three) no. contractors
were engaged during March - April/94 for distribution line works. The completion time for distribution line
work was March - AprilV95. Most of the materials were procured through international competitive bidding.
Installation of VHF equipment were made by the suppliers experts. Erection work of VHF tower has been
completed under the supervision of manufacturer's expert. As per Development Credit Agreement dated
June 7, 1989 the Project was scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1994.
IDA suspended the loan disbursement on 04.09.91 which was subsequently revived on 12.02.93, due to
which project works suffered and deleted.
As the pole supplier M/s Jindal Steel Products, India failed to supply the Poles & fittings, the distribution
network could not be installed as per original programme. M/s Jindal Steel Products, India was awarded the
contract for supply of 23,959 nos. 11KV & L.V. Poles with associated fittings through contract no. Pur-
214/Lot-1, 2 & 3 dated 13.04.92 and the supply was scheduled to be completed by 30.06.94. But they
failed to supply the same as per contract specifications. Even after protracted negotiations dated in
May, 1995. Mls Jindal failed to comply with the contracted supply amount as per contract specifications.
Subsequently on BPDB's repeated requests IDA on 19.12.95 agreed to allow procurement of balance poles
and fittings from the 2nd lowest responsive bidder at their quoted price of 1990.
Due to delay in implementation of project work and also increase in the demand for electricity supply
subsequently, substantial increase in the volume of work took place. As a result BPDB revised the Project
Proforma (PP). On the basis of above revised Project Proforma BPDB requested IDA to allow some
additional procurement. On 26th December, 1995 IDA gave consent for procurement of additional
materials for 16-town Power Distribution Project. Upto June'1998 about 90% (ninety percent) of
distribution line works were completed. It is expected that remaining 10% work can be completed by
June1999.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Kaptai Hydro Unit:
Under this component the works included rehabilitation of two Kaptai Hydro units. During
implementation stage, M/s Lahmeyer International worked as the supervisory consultant of the work
which was also provisionally accepted through them. The contract was signed on 25.06.94. The unit no. 2
was scheduled to be commissioned on 31.01.1996 and the unit no. 1 was on 30.06.1996. During
implementation of the rehabilitation work it was found that the condition as narrated in the contract
document varied widely with that of the actual physical condition. For example complete generator rotor
coils of both the units and cooling water pipes needed to be changed and discharge ring of both the units
were exhaustively repaired more than that mentioned in the contract. As a result the original time schedule
could not be maintained and the project was delayed. Contract amendment no. I was signed on 10.04.97
with new guaranteed completion dates for.unit no. I on 30.06.98 and for unit no. 2 on 31.12.96 (with old
rotor coils) and on 31.07.98 (with new rotor coils). 70% of stator core lamination sheet found rusted
during storage which had to be reimported and installed by the contractor. Turbine & Generator coupling
alignment was a big problem which was solved after long trial and error adjustment. Now, both the units
are running with full load satisfactory.



37
APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 10
(iii) Augmentation of Ishurdi 230KV Sub-station:
Under RRAGS project extension of 230KV Ishurdi grid sub-station was done on Turnkey basis by the
Contractor M/s. HICO, Korea. The preparatory work was started in the year 1991. The contract for the
work was signed on 30.11.93. Effective date of L/C was 27.02.94.
During Implementation of the work, Directorate of Design & Inspection-II worked as the supervisory
consultant nominated by the Board. The following five major equipment were tested by 3rd. Party
Inspection agency (M/s. Crown Agency) at the manufacturer's factory.
a) 230/132KV, 45/60/75MVA Single phase transformer.
b) 230KV, 1600A SF6 Circuit Braker.
c) 230KV Lightning Arrester.
d) 230KV Capacitor Voltage Transformer.
e) 230KV Current Transformer.
The other minor 15 nos. of equipment] materials were tested by Post Landing Inspection Team of BPDB at
the site.
Pre-commissioning testing and commissioning were done thoroughly and after successful testing of the
whole work the Transformer T.O.3 (3X75 = 225MVA) was energized on 08/03/96 at no load and
subsequently some days later load was applied. Taking Over Certificate (TOC) wvas issued on
September,1996. After completion of minor rectification works and expiry of warranty period Final
Acceptance Certificate (FAC) was issued in May,1998.
(iv) Installation of 33KV Capacitor Bank:
Tender for turnkey installation was invited. After evaluation and the approval of BPDB and IDA, contract
for the turnkey construction of 33KV Capacitor Bank was signed on 31st March'1990 with M/s Lacky
Engineering Co. Seoul, Korea. Accordingly Letter of credit (LUC) was opened on 26th May, 1990 as per
contract. The work was scheduled to be completed on 27th February'1992 after trial operation of 21
months.
But due to unavoidable circumstances! reasons, the turnkey contractor could not complete the works within
the schedule time. After counting 3 (three) months trial operation, the
following completion certificate (TOC) was issued by the Engineer of the project against mentioned Sub-
stations.
SL. No.    Sub-Station      Date of issue of TOC
1.           Tongi          27/02/1993
2.           Hasnabed        28/02/1993
3.           Madanhat        12/03/1993
4.           Kulshi          12/03/1993
5.           Halishahar      12/03/1993
6.           Khulna          27/10/1993
7.           Jessore         27/10/1993
8.           Jhenaidah      29/03/1993
In accordance with the contract, the warranty period of 1 (one) year was valid from the date of issuing of
TOC. Accordingly, the Final Acceptance Certificate (FAC) was issued after considering 1 (one) year
warranty period from the issuance of TOC on 27 October,1993 which was effective on 27 October'1994.



38
APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 10
(v) Institutional strengthening/ reorganization:
This component was included to enable the funding of miscellaneous expenditures in connection with
institutional development and sector restructuring. The following expenditures were met from this
component:
(1) Office facilities, vehicles and computers for the Power Cell (established in MEMR to prepare and
facilitate a sector reform program).
(2)    Office facilities, vehicles and computers for the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
(PGCB) which has been established to take over the transmission network of BPDB.
(vi) Technical Assistance:
Technical assistance under the Credit was utilized for consultancy services for the project management of
the Kaptai rehabilitation (Part 1), for designing distribution works included in parts A,B and D, and for
both design and project management of 33/11 KV substations under Part C. The work of the consultants
have been carried out satisfactorily.
(e) Operation experience:
(i) 16-Town Power Distribution Project:
The 33/ 1 1KV Sub-station installed by M/s Siemens Ltd., India were commissioned on dates mentioned
against each sub-station:
Name of Substation        Capacity         Date of Commissioning
____                             in MVA
1.    Narail                    2x10 MVA                 24.7.95
2.    Gopalgani                 2x10 MVA                 16.8.95
3.    Shariatpur                2x5 MVA                  22.4.95
4.    Jhalakhati                 2x10 MVA                04.7.95
5.    Bhola (Borhanuddin)        2x5 MVA                 28.6.95
6.    Bhola (Old)                lx5 MVA                 03.7.95
7.   _Eroipur                   2xlOMVA                  21.9.95
8.    Munshiganj                2x10 MVA                 20.5.95
9.   0 Raje_rapur (Gazipur)     2x10 MVA                22.5.95
10.   Joydebpur (Gazipur)       2x10 MVA                 26.6.95
11.   loydebpur (Burulia)                                23.7.95
12.   Manikganj                 2x1O MVA                 28.6.95
13.   Rangamati                 2x5 MVA                  21.6.95
14.   Chandpur (New)            2x1O MVA                 11.6.95
15.   Chandpur(Old)              lxS MVA                 24.5.95
16.   Kottapara (B.Baria)       2x5 MVA                  11.6.95
17.   Brahmanbaria              2x10 MVA                 26.5.95
18.   Patilakhali (Ishurdi)     2x10 MVA                 22.7.95
19.   Ishurdi                   2x10 MVA                 29.5.95
20.   Netrokona                  2x1O MVA                13.8.95
21.   BhairabBazar               2x10 MVA                09.9.95
22.   Ashuganj                       _                   25.9.95
23.   Chandpur Grid             ____                     22.7 .95



39
APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 10
After testing and commissioning of 33/11KV Sub-stations Taking Over Certificate (TOC) were issued.
During operation, some of the sub-stations faced minor problems. Within warranty period M/s. Siemens
Ltd., India did all repair/ replacement works. For sub-station work except 33 KV Circuit Breaker warranty
period was September'1996 and for 33 KV Circuit Breaker it was September'1997. The sub-stations are
operating satisfactorily. On the other hand as per contract, the warranty period for Control Room building
was September'1998. For sub-station maintenance work there is a reasonable stock of spare parts available
with BPDB. Presently BPDB field officials are performing regular repair! maintenance work.
Rehabilitation & expansion work of distribution line is progressing not to satisfactorily. Upto June'1998 the
work of 71.41 Km - 33 KV line, 160.99 Km- 11 KV line, 219.51 Km- 11/0.4 KV line, 522.5 Km- 0.4KV
line and 820 nos. - 100 & 200 KVA LV. sub-stations have been completed. After completion the above
installations were energized timely. The performance of the equipments installed in distribution line is
satisfactory. BPDB already getting benefits out of the components so far installed. Annexure- 1 & 2
(enclosed) shows the improvement in system loss & increase in energy consumption of different towns
under 16-Town Power Distribution Project. VHF equipments are also working satisfactorily.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Kaptai Hydro Unit:
Soon after bringing the machines into operation in unit no. 2, the hydraulic oil was found leaking through
the coupling joint which was rectified by special chemical compound. Water leakage in turbine shaft seals
also occurred which was subsequently rectified.
Commutator machining of both the units were done in situ after fine carbon brush particle made short circuit
in the excitation system. The Data Logging and PLC system also experienced problem during initial stage of
operation, which was subsequently rectified. Both the machines are presently running smoothly. The
warranty period for the machines will expire on 17 September'1999 .
(iii) Augmentation of Ishurdi 230KV Sub-station:
230/132KV Ishurdi Grid sub-station has been running smoothly. Overall reliability and stability of the
Power system of the Western zone increased. However the increased capacity will improve operational
efficiency and net work reliability over the year in the Western Zone.
(iv) Installation of 33KV Capacitor Bank:
After commissioning of the capacitor banks at the 8 (eight) nos. grid sub-stations mentioned above, the
various defects were observed in the installed equipment, such as (1) gas leakage of out door 33KV SF6
circuit breaker. (2) burning out of capacitor banks unit due to the flashing between body and frame of the
banks at different sub-stations i.e., Kulshi, Madanhat, Halishahar and Hasnabed etc.
For taking remedial measures on the above defects manufacturer's expert came from U.S.A and Italy. Also
to solve the above defects permanently and to replace the defective breaker poles, 10 (ten) nos. of breaker
poles were imported by the turnkey contractor from the manufacturer and accordingly the defective breaker
poles were replaced. After rectification the system is running smoothly.
2. Evaluation of Borrower's own performance:
Due to some unforeseen reasons i.e strike, flood etc. the tender receiving date and also execution of field
works was delayed. Tender evaluation was made expeditiously. In most of the cases field execution was
delayed for various reason. Timely availability of land and right of way for project



40
APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 10
works is critical, delay on these accounts also triggered delay in completion. It is also apparent that during
implementation stage because some new unforeseen items of works cropped up especially for power station
rehabilitation work, the execution works got delayed. In some cases customs authority in the port took a
long time in assessing taxes resulting delay in implementation.
Lesson learned - Tender document should be prepared more carefully and conscientiously so that issuance
of addendum can be avoided. Consistencies in the terms of reference, evaluation procedures and the
mechanism for rank ordering etc. should be clearly spelled out in the tender document. The tender
document and the scope of work should be elaborately described to avoid any confusion during bidding and
implementation stage. In the preparation of tender document concerned 0 & M filed officials should be
involved. After circulation of tender a pre-bid meeting normally can become a time saving device. For
turnkey contracts vetting from the line Ministry and N.B.R. is taken before signing of the contract. As such
the procedure of issuance of machinery benefit certificate from the ministry may be avoided in order to
save time for clearance of materials from the Port.
The consultant's work and the actual construction work must be adequately coordinated, integrated and
agreed upon by all parties so that the consultancy and the construction works can run in parallel being
complementary to each other. Approval process should be shortened. The Project Directors should be given
more power for efficient implementation of the project, which should be clearly spelled out in the contract
document.
3. Evaluation of Bank Performance ( and Confinanciers):
Once the loan agreement is executed and disbursement started the practice of suspension of loan
disbursement should be stopped. Suspension of loan disbursement for a long time causes not only great
delay in execution of the Project and increase in Project Cost but also bring in legal complications
including claim of compensation for delay etc.
Due to the sluggishness of nationalised Bank the L.C. performance were not been satisfactory. The concept
of fund releasing process was 75% by the Bank and 25% by the borrower's is not at times & congenial for
smooth payment to contractor. Sometimes the fund placement process becomes too lengthy. To obviate the
situation the Bank quota should be raised to 100% for smooth payment to the contractor. Price Adjustment
Formula should be abolished or if it is to be considered, the Price Adjustment factor should be much higher
than 5% as in practice. The FAC is a part of the total contractual obligation. So the financing of FAC
payment if not covered within the loan validity, the contractor, should be allowed to get payment within the
loan validity against Bank Guarantee.
4. Plan for Overational Phase of the Proiect:
BPDB is trying to obtain optimum benefit out of the equipment/ machinery installed in 16-Town Power
Distribution Project, Kaptai Hydro Unit, Augmentation of Ishurdi 230KV Sub-station and 33KV & 11KV
Capacitor Banks. BPDB will continue to monitor closely the commercial performance in the 16-Towns and
ensure the sustainability of the project. Inclusion of all unauthorized consumer into billing system,
validation of consumer accounts, improvement of collections, disconnection of consumers who have more
than three months of areas and verifying , calibrating of meters in project area will continue to reduce the
overall system loss of BPDB.



41
APPENDIX B
Page 9 of 10
ANNEX 1
Year wise system losses (in percentagle) of individual towns
Si.    Name of the                                    Year
No.       Towns         1992-93    1993-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97      1997-98
up to March
1          2             3          4          5          6           7           8
1.    Narail             25.36      22.50      23.09      23.01      19.96        17.87
2.    Gopalganj          35.62      35.10      40.06      39.30      35.40        27.55
3.    Shariatpur         36.49      43.32      40.72      38.26      38.95        40.43
4.   Jhalakhati          29.21      26.33      25.49      21.02      23.14        21.44
5.    Bhola              23.28      22.28      22.72      25.18      27.52        32.36
6.    Pirojpur           24.79      39.66      23.79      18.68      19.24        20.72
7.    Rangamati          20.50      23.95      23.69      24.62      26.54        25.43
8.    Chandpur           28.46      27.58      25.90      28.65      25.17        22.61
9.    Brahmanbaria       32.33      24.91      23.70      22.83      21.05        20.33
10.  Ishurdi             20.87      21.85      18.36      14.49      15.80        16.34
11.   Netrokona          36.00      32.52      32.28      25.91      19.13        13.20
12.   Bhairab Bazar      43.90      28.84      30.88      34.60      30.97        31.10
13.   Munshiganj         32.41      32.39      30.79      27.48      27.21        27.38
14.   Narayanganj        27.60      26.70      26.72      26.23      26.01        25.90
15.  Joydebpur           13.26      15.46      18.36      18.85      19.88        19.80
16.   Manikganj          20.89      18.47      17.73      16.73      21.84        19.60



42
APPENDIX B
Page 10 of 10
ANNEX 2
Consumer nos. for the month of June and MKWh sales per year
Name of the            -                            Year
Towns         Item      1992-   1993-   1994-   1995-   1996-   1997-   *Remarks
_ ___________                93      94       95       96       97      98*
1        2            3          4        5       6        7        8        9         10
1.  Narail           No. of      4083    4456    4612    4826    5139    5271  For 1997-
Consumer/
GWh        6.435    6.513    7.095    8.099    7.938    6.217   98 upto
March/98
2.  Gopalganj                    2705    3097    3328    3709    3871    4142    -do-
5.185    5.793    5.440    5.911    6.073    7.060
3.  Shariatpur                   4706    5421    6091    6777    8242    9419    -do-
8.445    7.034    8.506   10.211   10.347    8.525
4.  Jhalakhati                   3458    3701    3233    3463    3406    3586    -do-
5.517    6.238    7.304    8.221    7.831    6.074
5.  Bhola                        4220    4298    5211    5406    6185    7293    -do-
9.205    9.917    9.815   12.388   12.425    8.984
6.  Pirojepur                    2961    2966    3193    3348    3569    3856    -do-
__________    7.633    6.079    8.478    9.654    9.729    7.862
7.   Rangamati                   3739    4136    4424    4609    5074    5309    -do-
10.741   11.481   12.758   13.672   13.654   10.801
8.  Chandpur                    10039   10545   11391   12435   13977   14662    -do-
29.014   30.161   34.408   35.534   35.499   29.759
9.  Brahmanbaria                11273   11652   12224   13822   14712   15706    -do-
27.597   29.277   34.430   32.255   38.159   33.427
10.  Ishurdi                     6480    7079    7731    8658    9307    9858    -do-
67.868   65.699   72.144   78.449    78.30   61.860
11.  Netrokona                   4112    4386    4794    5217    5269    5773    -do-
8.234    8.822   11.328   15.860   19.110   18.250
12.  Bhairab Bazar               3710    4135    4784    5200    5450    5849    -do-
12.216   14.619   14.240   13.284   13.634   10.826
13.  Munshiganj                 22715   25260   31301   32790   40345   47632    Upto
76.34    84.75   108.53   104.51   121.32   141.53    June/98
14.  Narayanganj                37612   40821   42861   46002   41604   44348    Upto
I__________   187.87   216.84   246.45   257.17   300.53   296.35   May/98
15.  Gazipur                     12068   12863   13839   15678   18023   20369    -do-
28.76    59.84   133.16   145.53   156.62   177.23
16.  Manikganj                   10875   10580   12134   12478    11214   12995    Upto
_ ___________ _________   113.05   118.70   148.43   158.70   173.43   210.36    June/98
Note: 1.   In some cases consumer no has been reduced from that of previous year this is due to
handing over of an area to REB.
2.   In some cases sales in MKWh has been reduced from previous year this is due to handing
over of an area to other division/ ESU.



43
APPENDIX.C
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPME NT BOARD
INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
7  1988                               ~~~~~~~MILLION TK                                 ~19                                            97
_____________________________  1989        .*         7       1991       _     1992                              1994~~~~~~~~~1 3  I 9
Apr st     ta   Apasa       o    prr       cIsI  prislAAppraippasl           te   ApssIAul   Appraisa 'ALAtuial~piiAts                 ~I 7,~
Forces   ______  Foecast  .Forecast F~secastForeeas              F6recas  ______reca ecast  .      Forcast
To-tal ~Generatijon in O -wh      6,541  6-6,541  _6,_993     7_,I115    7,867  7-,732-8,850   8,270- 9,5         ,9      1, 20-1  9~,204   12,602   9,784   1417 1,0         1,474   11,858
Losses_(L_) ~ ~     _      42       42       34       34       30      _39      28       41      27      32       26      25       25       24      24       23       22       20
Sales Of Eetciy(w)370-373                            469      4,695    5,507   4,705   6372   4,871   7,269   6,021   8,289   6,906   9-,-452  -7,_457  ~10,7    831          ,9       9,447
vraeReven ue (TkJK wh)          2                 .1       1.73     2.26    2.14     2.55    2.32    2.90    2.0 3OO   .25-    1.F90   3.27     1.8      3.74    1.87 -   1.87     1.96
Revenue FrmEetiiySls              7,388    7,24    928_3  8,i33   12,458  _10,067 1T6277   11,28-0- 21,107  12,069  26,89-9 _13,134 30,942   14,019  40,30    15,682   16,784   18,492
OtherOperatingRevenues334          267       325      290      436      310    570      303     739      253     941      263     1,083    347      1411    290      346      505
Total 0 erai      vn         _    7,22~  7,500    9,608    8,423    12,894  10377  16,847  11,583   21,846  12,322  27,840  13,397  32,025  14,366  41,717  15,972  17,130   ___
Overatn   xine
Fuel________Cost___    ,95                  2,901    3,036    3,075    3,543   3,3      416      3,524    509 475 631               ,42    7,004   5,916   9,916 799          84       9,4
Gen., Trans & Distribution Ex.908   -211   ____    ,6    ___ 1,669                                               1,458            1,470             1,816      _      1,717    1,799    1,788
Revair & Mintenance60 8I 57                                          1,483 ____ 1,004           _      907              699              326              329      360      407
General &Admin Expenses.                    150   ____         159              214              209              205              204              218              212____  246       266
Metering, Billing, Collection Exp.           13                 4                 8               0                9      __       21321                                              ___
Bad Debt Provisions              ____        85                53                                                                                                                    _35-
Provision For Asset Insurance Fund            -                                                                                                      101 -                                
Depreciation                       1,974    1,948    2,736    2,672    3,7      2,525   4,418   2,963   5,632   4,892   7,047   _4,937    8,509   4,890   10.791   5,229    5,481    5,963
Total Oprating  xpenses7,044    6,22    8,612    7,71    10,449   8,708  12,292   9,837   15,195  12,433   18,618   13,009   21,532  173,44   28,416  15,785   16,293   1,7
Opert      noe678                             778      996     1,252    2,445   1,670   ,5        1,745   6,651   (111)   9,222    388    10,493    919    13,301    186        837      926
-interest. Charged To Operations     24      87       154      1,067    1,936    185C7 2i,_66_3  1,958   T3,363 12,663  _4,242  2q,437   4,676    1,873   4 _,923   2,635    2,609    2,319
________________________   (46      (89)    (528)   -185       59       (8) 192         (212)  _3,28   (2,773)   4,:980   2050    -,87    (54        _8,38 (,4) 172           133
Amortiztion O Currecy FlucoatiOs ______   _____278               2,8'___    112                    4709)            1,8)(,3)__I _ ___(2,362)   2,359                     13
Revaluation Of Accumnulated Depreciato   _____(826)                             (1,100)          (1,467)                  _______________                                               ____
Prior Years' Adiustments              -(7)~                             -        _________                                                                       _                      ___
Net Profit (Loss)                   (26b8)            (,99      33         0     33757)  1,891   (2,802)_ 3,288   (7,482)_ 4 980     5 30)  5 817   (2,785)  8,378 (481    586    (1,258)
Av. Curent et Vaue OfAsset  40,86   39.12    49800   5,055  6,1( 69537.5  84,018  95,006  9514   115.284 10-3,278 131,170 103,066 166,254 103.751 139,37010,6
Rate Ot'Retun  %)  _______ 1.7%     2.0%     2.0%     2.2%     4.0%     2.4%   6.0%    2.1%   -7.0%    -0.1%    8.0%    0.4%    8.0%    0.9%    8.0%    0.2%    0.6%           0.8%
Operating Ratio                     0.91     0.90      0.90     0.85     0.81-  0.84     0.73     0.85    0.70    1.01    0.67      0.97     0.67    0.94   04.6-8  09          .5       09



44
APPENDIX C
Page 2 of 5
BANGLADESH POWER DEVFLOPMENT BOARD
BALANCESHEET
FOR TIIE YEAR ENDING JUJNE 30
.-  _  .   :  .. _            ...             _   .  ,    ~~~~MIll.lION TK
__ _  i--1988                                               l 19  ' 91      1992              1993       1      1994              1995       : )6    199
Appraisal  AulAppraia[ AcuaAppraisali Actual Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal Act           pprasal Actu l Appruisal; Al Ap ;Appraisal Actual' Actuai  Actuai
_                __    lForeForecast _                                   Forecast _Forecast                   Fosecast                            Forecast
Fi~xed A-se-ts.
Gross Fixed Assets             5 3,767  47,371  65,222  72,991   82,616  81,435  102,682  100,270  130,868  164,700  155,917  165,638  178,197  175,910 245,386  179,171  183,293 208,534
Less: Aec. Depreciation         8,327   7959   11,063  11,000  14,535  14,673   18,953   19,163   24,5 85   60,516   31,632   65,504   40,141   70,394   50,933_ 75,623   81,104  87,067
NetFixed Assess ps.            45,440   39,412  54,159  61,991  68,081  66,762  83,729  81,107   106,283  14,185   24,285  10 ,34  138,056  105.516  194,453  103,548 102,189 121,467
Capital Exp. In Pro       g es  20,269_ 28,462  22,824  17,550  22,396  24,725  24,152   20,978   22,970   24,242   32,925   30,267   53,683   27,182  32,088   36,009  38,518  18,639
Total Fixed Assets   __        65,709  67,874  76,983  79,541  90,477  91,487  107.881   102,084  19,253  128,427  157,210  130.401  191,739  132,698  26,54 1  139,557 1 40,707 140,106
_Other Investment               100 _121    100          161    100       143      100      127      100      105      100       45       100      44       100      70      134      120
Current Ass_=        _____ __
Cash                            634    1,284    734    1,649    872    1,719    984        1,971     1,195    2,463    1,446    2,158    1,628    2,012 _ 2,203    3429    6,330   7,588
Inventories,                    1,613    1,188   1,631   1,212   2,065   1,338   2,567    1,539    3,272    1,376    3,898    2,078    4,455    2,734    6,135_;  3.961    4,630   5,568
Accounts Receivables         _ 3 ,078   3,957   2.708   5,217   3,633   3,727   4.747    6,397    6,156    6,512    7,846    8,406    9,025   112389   11,756   14,235   15,703  18,218
Bad Debt Povis~ionin   _341
Bad~ ~~~~~~~               S D e b  _308)(27 l )   (734)   -      (368 )    -       (634)             (27)(292) __(4                                         38)N(9) (29
Advances,Deposits&Prepaid       197      382     216     426      237     260      260      268      285      246      313      203       343     1,102    377      2,586   2,010   2,010
.Expenses & Others _| _   _____
Totai Current Assets            5 ,214   6,810   5,018   7,769   6,807   6,676   8,558    9,540    10,908   10,349   13,503   12,554   15,451   17.895   20,471   23,842  28,280  32,955
InterOfficeeAdustments                 _ -        -       24       -       65       -       24   _            102   .(132                  -      (9'61)__   -      2,445) - _
fotal Assets                                     82  101           6S39 _  .111,M _                               S4 ItlW   1428                                               1      73.1



45
APPENDIX C
Page 3 of 5
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
BALANCE SHEET (Contd.)
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
___________  1988          1989             1990             ~~~MILLION TK                                            19  -19    i9
Apraisai ct,  a   pr~a1Ata1AprsT ca   pria~Ata    pr ActuAcua    ppa alcta  Appraisal Acul1pri, AtalAt    .Aua
________________________Foi~ast  Frecas  ~..li orcast  orccss       Foecast_____  Forcast .              FoecastForecst Forecast__
Capital 
Govt. Equity Investment (Paid-Up   17,781   15,610  19,598  18,214  23,600  20,643  25,770   21,610   28,092   21,378   29,268   26,224   29,919 2,7          3089   44,639  46584- 48,986
Capital)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _                         _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _   _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _
Grants                          1_,_517   3~,43_4  -1,51C7   3,504    1,522   3,557    1,772   3_,6_07  1,8_89   _3,627    1,889   3T,656  _1,889     3,6_84  1-,_889   3 _,749   3,799-   3,829
Deposit Work Fund         Z222     232     248      309     276      342     307       377      341       282      379      356      420       409      466      473      544      574
Appraisal Surplus (Ar&Fef Fund)  8252   9,026   12,776  13,769  18,313  21,068 .25,468   29,211   34,463   55,748   46,100   55,748   59,993   55,748   75,795   55,748  55,748   55,748
RYe-tained Eamnings (Lo-ss)       (641)  (1_,7:6:2:) 190   (3,770)  (1,43 1   (8,420)   460    (10,546)   3,747   (14,169)  8,728   (18,356)  14,546  (21,150)  22,923  (27.126) (28,219)  (29,486)
Total quity  ___________ 27,131  26,540  32,199  32,025  42,280  37,190  53,777   44,260   68,532   66,865   86,364   67,628  106,767  66,964  131,462  77,483   78,457   79,651 -
Liabilities____
Total Long -Term -Debt       -  35,919  38,329  43,733  41,431  48,397  40,684  54,921   41,163   63,057   46,311   74,956   49,098   89,357   51,275  108,357  57,973   55,206   53,494
Enmployee Fund &Consumer         1,128   _1,110    1,T3_42   -1,293    1,578    1,461   1,837  1,606    2,122    1,396    2,435    1,539    2,780     1,5      319      171    1,851    11,9117
eurity Depsts____
CurrentLibite
Bank Loans                83~~_U4  6~50_   918    6_03 _8_2_6   2-77  _74_3          378   __669        -980-    602         6       5_42         7   _488       -7       -7     ___7 __
AconsPyabile_ 3,680   377                     759    2,880    886    2,239   1,041 I- 2,239    125          1,186    1,575     539 -171           18      2,5       18-     90         36
Security Deposits                _131      143     150      170  .173        176     199       185      229       142      263      149      302       211      348      253      265      299
Tax &Duty Payable &Othser        1,122   2,790    1,042   7, 11-5   97      4,285    911      18,862    857      1,371     811      815      72       139       738     1,330    1,428     10
Current Liabilities
CuiTentPOrtonOf LtdL1081  1F,486-  1,957   1,977  -2,274   2,059   3,111    3,082               3531    20,733    3808    2305       508      2_81_8_3   0     _22,190   27,747 3~1655.273
To-talCurrent Liabilities   __ 6,848   8~,826   4,826   12,745   5,131 .19,036   6,005    24,746    6,551    24,411    7,059   24,604   8,385   29,787   4,133   23,798  30,398   34,335
Tootal -Liabilities  -            43 i9 4m   49,90   5i470  516~ii6,6                              6     7,3                45       .,.0li,5282215698352______
_Inter Office _Adi .                ---                                                                                                                                           3.209     3,785
'total Capital & Liabilities      71067-(8J                    Z45_I         9,7199310,1_L2                                                              266?ZJI11i519M                    1  
Accounts Recevbes(oth)_0   6.6                       3.5     7.7      3.5      4.4     3.5 -     68       35        6.5      3.5      7.7      3.5      10.6      3.5     10.9     11.2      11.8
AccountsPa ule(Montlss)6.0         6.2      1.0     4.2      0.9      2.7     0.8       24       0.7       1.2      0.7      0.5      0.7      0.0       0.8      0.0     0.7       0.9
Current Ratio       ___             0.8     0.8      1.       0.6     1.3    064-    1l4 ~    04          1.7       0.4      19       0.5      1.8       0.6 6    5.0      1.0   I0.9    _1.0
Debt:Eguity Ratio  ~ ~ _58 o    60%        58%     57%      54% o    53      M51       49%   _49%     4%           47%      43 %              44%_    _46%      _44%b    42%1      41%



46
APPENDIX C
Page 4 of 5
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF FUND
FOR TI4E YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ -~  19 8   __  989   _ 1990M        ILLIO N     TK     1 9                                 9 4    ~      9   5_          _  _   1 9
___________________________~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~19 __                                                                                        6          1997_ 99
~AppraiSsa  Actual  Appraisal~ Actual XAPprajissi1 A-Ctual ApniaAn Al Aprisnal  AOual ~F-p-pr1s"al fAentIu lAp  AdApppraisalA                  t7!Aclul  Acual
______________ ______________   Forecast  rorecasi  ___   Forcs    ____cast aIt    _'orecas t  re at  ____    Forecast  _____   orecast  _____    orecasi  ____    ____  _ _ _
Sources
Internal Sources                         ___                               __
Nie-t income Before interest     6-78    77-8  996    704  2-,-445   160   4,555    1,745            6,651    (111)   9,222   -3-8-8  10,493   -919    13 301   -186   -837    926
Dpepreito             _____ 194           192 2736   3,041   3,472   3,673   4,418   4,490           5,632   41,353   7,047    4,988   8,509   480 1,9             ,2      ,8      ,6
Total Internal Sources2,652   2,7_69   3,35,4              ,1     5343   8,973  -6,235-   12,283  -41,~242  16, 269  - 5,376   19,002   5,809   24,092   5,415   6,3~18   6,889
Ad.From Previous Years           -       (       771)  (,4)       - (4,464)    -        193   __           551                ,3        __ 189           -    (.2        8       2
External Sources240
Gob Equity (Including Grants &   2904    825    1,81   2i,674   4,0017  2.482   2,420    1,17        2,440     ,56     1,17-5  -4,8 76  -6-52 -2,076-   470   -16,431  -1,995 -2,432
Consumer Contribution              23      34       26      77      2      33      31       35        34      (18       8        7       4       72       46       99      90     105
AssetRevauatinReerve    3 -,365 -3,3_11   5,377   4,743   6,522   7,299   8,262   8,144    10,268   26,537  13,087       -     15,592     --   17,820   -   --            -
EmployeesFund(Gr.&Pf)96           92       106     73     116      81     128      66     __141      (2)      155      55       170      40      187      22    (10)_   40)
Consumer Depsits (Net)             99     1,407-   108    110    119        87     131      78       144    -(95)    159        73       175     53    -192    6-5         7 1     30
Others                              -       -     3,680     -       -      49       -        0         -       5        -       18        -       11               6       12-   25
Boroings
Foreigrn Lqan__                  4,888   6,800  -4,711   5,388   4,797   3,335  -6,76-5  2,935      7,646    7,406   10,551   3,571   13,159   3,039   11,811   6,520  -4,957   1,307
Government Loan          ~806     73      58      60      137     280    1,515    64-5   2410   -1,01-5  3,2-19    1,764   3,-829   -1,-36      3,72     1.32   1,29    1,603
Issue Of Debenture                 -        -               -6 -                                                                                 49-  -            70-
Total Borrowing            -~_5,694   7           _33 5,269   5,988   5j94   3,615   8,280   3,580    10 056   8__ 42  3770 -5,900   16,988   4,453   1, 83  8051   6~253   2,909
Increase hin Foreign Loan Due To  1,447   2,068    1,704  (1,250)  1,971   3,265   2,212    869     2,547    6,110   2,901    1,491   3,397   2,276   4,034    3,645  (3,677)  203
Ex. Rate Fluc.                   ___
rotal Souirces                    16,280  18,041  21,048  14,517, 241   i7,791, 30,437  18,181   37,913  7L8,022, 47.554  15,907  56,017  112,952  6,2   30,207 1,3   12,679



47
APPENDIX C
Page 5 6f 5
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF FUND (Contd.)
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUJNE 30
___________ _  _95    N41M11,ION TK                                                                                   I
Appra              ~           @                                       1899              1 *   _-99j N    r agi }1 _  ,73    ; _+ ____ V~.. . ... .t  19  1993
Actul ApraisP Acual  ApprisarAta  Apus,Atal      Appraisal   o ctual           culAaa    ctAta                           cul Ata
Applications              _                                ______ ____   _  _
Capital Expenditure        6903   9,176   6,108   7,597   7,644   6,183   10,804  5,598   13,788   10,106   18,598   6,029   22,730   5874   21,240   1,698    5,075   4,323
Capitalised Interest       1,769   1,560   1,672   2,935   1,814    991    1,652   1,296    1,674      983     1,870    1,047   3,016    878    4,517    1,283    2,950   1,012
Inc. la Inv. (Icl. In Wip) Due   724  511   852    (528)    986    1,177   1,106    103    1,273    1,401    1,450       11    1,698    445    2,017    9,140   (1,319)   38
To Ex. Rate Flue.
Total Investment Program    9,396  _11217 8,632  10,005  10,444   8,352   13,562  69797   16,735   1490   21,918               27,444 _7,97   27,774   1       _          5,370
Asset Revaluation          3,365   3,311   5,377   4,743  6522.00  7,299   8,262   8,144   10,268   55,236   13,087             15,592          17.820                  . - 
Dec. In Apr. Surp. Due To   724    1,557    852      -      986              ,106     -      1,273      -      1,450   _        1,698           2,017               -
Exch. Rate Fluc.________                                                     ___
Transfer To Desa                           __                .   __                                   1,882
Debt Service
Anunortization             1,459   1,243   1,964   3,809   2923   2,918   3,131   2,947    4,048    3,628    4,494    4,283   4,773   4,331   5,636    5,031    5,010   4,405
Interest Payment            924     867    1,524   1,067   1,936   1,857   2,663   1,958    3,363    2,663    4,242    2,437   4,676   1,873   4,923    2,635    2,609   2,319
Total Debt Service         2,383   2,109   3,488   4,876   4,859   4,774   5,794   4        7,411    6,290    8,736    6,721   9,449   6,204   10559   7,666    761    6,724
Dividend Payrnent To Gob _                                                 _                        _ -  -       -     -i
Net Change In Working       414    (185)   2,701  (5,107)  1,803  (2,634)  1,713  (1,862)   2,224    2,126    2,363    2,099   1,833   (449)   4,254   10,419  (2,592)   581
Capital
rotal Applications          16,282  18,040  21,050  14,517  24,614  17,791  30,437  18,183   37,911   78,024   47,554   15,906  56,016  12,952  62,424   30,206   11,733  12,679
Contribution To            -1.54%   7.51%  -37.40%  23.32%  -7.13%  -15.10%  10.81%  18.29%   15.82%   218.05%   23.59%  -78.75%  28.13%  -24.80%  33.41%  -133.63%  29.40%  -5.40%
Construction - Annual (%
Contribution'fo            -1 .54%   7.51%  -34.01%  23.64%  -6.85%  -14.93%  10.80%  13.79%   15.21%   307.47%   23.47%  -62.53%  30.02%  -20.28%  36.09%  -186.71%  24.44%  -3.60%
Construction - 3 Yr. Avg. (%)
DServiceCoverageRatio  _1.1_    1.3           1.1    0.8      1.2 _   1.1     1.5    1.3       1.7      6.6    . 1.9      0.8     2.0     0.9      2.3   _0.7       0.8      1.0



8 E9'                               90'                                  919                                 92'
'~-* N>->                                                                                                   BANGLADESH
Ponchogorhl/ -                                                                                POWER DISTRIBUTION
(eJ 7/   S - -? t  -   _                                                                        (1 6 TOWNS) PROJECT
26'         /  )    t                 '\           ,J                                                                 TRANSMISSION LINES-
26' !              O    iG~ON                      "_-nj                                                                     230 kV (EXISTING)                           26'-
>_  t  X  VSA    R   X Lo)tkpnirhot  *                                            132 kV jEXISTING)
230 kVY UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
Nturo   'dP.                                                                                                   132 kV IUNDER CONSTRUCTION)
RANGPUR '                                                             _     __      230 kv (PLANNED)
/   -   i  -  132 kV (PLANNED)
BARAPUKURIA                                                                                      U      POWER STATIONS
,  \    s \\   r   u                              *0     GRID SUBSTATIONS
1 \   \tU   +rM                                     YA     16 TOWNS INCWDED UNDER THE PROJECT
,.!     Pcoloshbocs   *   J  '
25                        .                                                                                                Ch.tt.k                            '           25'
~~~                /  /~~~~~~~~~-s  ~ OGASYLNET
>   12    NoogoonXtX                                         >               MYMM    INGH (RPC)                                  F E
h* }tobgun\'~S                                                          F X X  >/1   ;S9    >8ax    t-ig   rz   )  + enchog-j
4pfi.hhri                        Seroig-on )    !                         Q9-m    K; oi     *              *        J
BH ERAMARA              h              a                                                           lodHJIRAzru 
24'                                                                          >,)  <? ;GANJ                                                          I N  D  I A           24-
24'    '                                                         {-T\t 4\Bott.il  onSr 
i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 S                                 i                            jx,2h
I N D I A                                                    mdunjcu_ +'fbn+v0 23-
23'2-
Thilkh,ro                                                                       I  RARISAL                                 T                               G   \b
t6 Mop Design Umfof.The                                  \i -'MVm          /      *       I.                             J9         \ 
Wbdd R.A. Ti. I-d-i.,o                      e'ghoI
WorldPonL Tbeb oudoris                                                                                    (
-oyi,hdea omn and m-T A-                                                   d r -AAI
z1hi-P.6-1 i.ply,                                                                                          B                         LI~hodoi  i  NIhO6r
,hepodofThm.W,dd&e             |                                    *8 a4         ( S      L              i                   r                       inondidogkono   I
Gpnor,onyj-ndojcanIro                                  (                                                                    M f  '         IKALRAHAi
or epany onorsee.o:h                                                                                                     f ,>  I  't  NaHlshabar    x Dohozsdri 
,ooedarins         8.                                             L f                       F              'f                                                            .
f22'     /  PotharghP            i             (             I22
r     i                                                                                                                                        -I 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                       C     B
_,  . t  W  A   X                                                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDtARIES   GV   aa        / # 
-.   'I },,                                                                           - - DIVISION BOUNDARIES
i                               :F- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES                                                       /
1 t  ft    '    l   21'
0      25      50    75 KiGometlen                            I,      Z
I      I       I       Ij 
or                                                      0              25            50 Miles                                  2 C
_0'                                  91'                                 92'            *              I 



