Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2016 BD
(Power Distribution (16 Towns) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated June 7, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2016 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BPDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various  currencies 
equivalent to sixty-four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
64,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that BPDB agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BPDB, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to BPDB on the terms and  conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BPDB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the  
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BPDB declares  its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to  this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BPDB shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set  forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. BPDB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to  insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. BPDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BPDB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange  views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the  performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BPDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which  
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BPDB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BPDB
Section 3.01. BPDB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BPDB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance  with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. BPDB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,  or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BPDB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
BPDB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall 
earn, for its fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 and for each of its fiscal years 
after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1992, an annual return of not less than 2%, 
4%, 6%, 7% and 8%, respectively, on the average current net value of BPDB's fixed 
assets in operation.
(b)
Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years BPDB shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by BPDB and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect  of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that BPDB would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for BPDB's fiscal years covered by such review,  BPDB shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing BPDB's net 
operating income for the fiscal year in question by one-half of 
the sum of the current net value of BPDB's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses. 
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 3.2% per annum of 
the average current gross value of BPDB's fixed assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to  the Association, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of BPDB's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross 
value of BPDB's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)
The term "current net value of BPDB's fixed assets in operation" 
Page  4
means the gross value of BPDB's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. BPDB shall:
(a)
by June 30, 1989 reduce its accounts receivable from the sale of 
electricity to the equivalent of no more than three and a half month's billings for 
sale of electricity calculated on the basis of the average billings for the preceding 
three months' electricity sales; and
(b)
thereafter take all measures necessary to ensure that its accounts 
receivable remain at or below such level.
Section 4.04. BPDB shall, by June 30, 1990, complete the aging analysis of its 
accounts receivable in a manner satisfactory to the Association and in  accordance 
with the dated action plan agreed with the Association.
Section 4.05. Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement between the Association and 
BPDB dated June 30, 1982, for Credit Number 1254-BD, Ashuganj  Thermal Power Project, 
is hereby amended by replacing such Section with Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement between the Association and 
BPDB dated June 30, 1982, for Credit Number 1254-BD, Ashuganj  Thermal Power Project, 
is hereby amended by replacing such Section with Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
Section 4.07. Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement between the Association and 
BPDB dated February 14, 1986, for Credit Number 1648-BD, Power  Transmission and 
Distribution Project, is hereby amended by replacing such Section with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement.
Section 4.08. Paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement between  the 
Association and BPDB dated February 14, 1986, for Credit Number 1648-BD, Power 
Transmission and Distribution Project, is hereby amended by replacing the language of 
such paragraph with the language of Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BPDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the  
Association shall promptly notify BPDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or  at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  5
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For BPDB:
Bangladesh Power Development Board
WAPDA Building
Motijheel Commercial Area
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
POWER BOARD 
65617 BPB BJ
Dhaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf  of BPDB may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman or such other person or  persons as the Chairman 
shall designate in writing, and BPDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
Page  6
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Without limitation to the above, contracts for materials, equipment, civil 
works, and transportation, erection and commissioning of equipment for Part C of the 
Project shall be awarded on a turnkey basis in accordance with the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of  preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Materials and equipment for Parts A and B of the Project estimated to  cost less 
than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under  contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding  paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Materials and equipment for Parts A and B of the Project estimated to  cost less 
than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
3.
Civil works and transportation, erection and commissioning of equipment, except 
for Part C of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded  on  the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
4.
Proprietary items under Part F of the Project, may be procured through direct 
contracting with the suppliers or manufacturers thereof under procedures  acceptable 
to the Association, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the  equivalent of 
$800,000.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1  to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist BPDB in carrying out Part J of the Project, BPDB shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions  of employment 
Page  7
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall  be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World  Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
BPDB shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project Implementation 
Unit with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a  Project Coordinator, 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
BPDP shall, by September 30, 1989, establish and thereafter maintain four 
divisions responsible for Project works in the Project Towns, each division under the 
supervision of a qualified executive engineer and assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
3.
BPDB shall:
 
(a)
by June 30, 1989, take the actions required for the delegation of 
adequate administrative, financial and commercial powers to Zonal Chief Engineers;
(b)
by March 31, 1990, take all administrative actions required for the  
establishment of the Dhaka Electric Supply Authority, a fully autonomous  entity, to 
replace the existing Dhaka Electric Supply; and
(c)
by July 1, 1990, take all administrative actions required to start  the 
operations of the Dhaka Electric Supply Authority.
4.
BPDB shall, taking into account the recommendations of the study carried out 
under the United Nations Development Programme Project No. BGD/85/054  (Power Loss 
Reduction Project), and the Association's comments thereon:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association for comments, by August 31, 1989:
 
(i)
a long-term program for reduction of non-technical losses; and
 
(ii)
a technical loss reduction program for BPDB's distribution system 
except the distribution system for the Project Towns; and
(b)
thereafter, timely carry out such programs as agreed with the 
Association.
For the purposes of this paragraph the term "non-technical loss" includes loss 
related to improper billing, illegal connections and incorrect metering;  and the term 
"technical loss" includes loss due to improperly planned and inadequately designed 
power distribution systems.
