Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2016 BD
(Power Distribution (16 Towns) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 7, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2016 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Power Development Board 
(BPDB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to BPDB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BPDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BPDB 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and  such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BPDB pursuant to Section 3.O1 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(d)
"Project Towns" means the following sixteen towns: Bhairab Bazar, Bhola, 
Brahmanbaria, Chandpur, Gazipur, Gopalganj, Ishurdi, Jhalakathi, Manikganj, 
Munshiganj, Narail, Naryanganj, Netrokona, Pirojpur, Rangamati and Shariatpur.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-four million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 64,700,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank (its Central Bank) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which  amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or  cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  3
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the  principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1999 and ending April 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2009 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such  installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have  been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of  its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause BPDB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of BPDB therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BPDB to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or  permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to BPDB under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BPDB under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association  which shall include 
the following: (i) interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at the rate of 
7.65% per annum; (ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of twenty 
years, including a grace period of five years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk 
shall be borne by BPDB.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the  
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) by March 31, 1990, take all legislative actions 
Page  4
required for the establishment of the Dhaka Electric Supply Authority, a fully 
autonomous entity; and (ii) by July 1, 1990, take all actions required  to make such 
Authority fully operational.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the  General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans  and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by BPDB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by April 30 of each year, commencing not later than April 30, 1990 and 
until the completion of the Project: (i) review with the Association the 
implementation of the priority investment program for BPDB for the current fiscal 
year; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the Association, for comments, the priority 
investment program, including the sources for the financing thereof, for the 
subsequent three fiscal years; and
(b)
thereafter, carry out such programs as agreed with the Association in a 
timely manner.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  5
Section 5.O1. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BPDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BPDB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Presidential Order No. 59 of 1972 of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of BPDB to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BPDB or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.O2. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and BPDB;
(b)
BPDB has employed the consultants required to assist BPDB in the carrying 
out of Part I of the Project;
(c)
the Borrower has approved the Project Proforma for the carrying out of 
the Project;
(d)
BPDB has completed the ongoing program for the installation, calibration 
and sealing of 1400 new metering panels at the premises of high voltage (11 and 33 kV) 
consumers; and
(e)
BPDB has completed the ongoing program for the installation, calibration 
and sealing of 25,000 new meters at the premises of low voltage (400 volts) industrial 
and commercial consumers.
Section 6.O2. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.O2 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has  been duly authorized or ratified by BPDB 
and is legally binding upon BPDB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and BPDB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BPDB in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.O3. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the 
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
Page  6
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of the 
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as  representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
  Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.H.S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works,            8,700,000           100% of foreign
     and transport,                              expenditures and
     erection and                                75% of local
     commissioning                               expenditures
     of equipment
(2)  Equipment;             48,500,000           100% of foreign
     materials;                                  expenditures,
     vehicles; and                               100% of local
     computers                                   expenditures
     (including                                  (ex-factory
     familiariza-                                cost) and 75%
     tion)                                       of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3)  Consultants'            1,000,000           100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated             6,500,000
     TOTAL                  64,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this  
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 6,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on 
account of payments made for expenditures for the acquisition and installation of 
33-kV 125 Megavar of capacitors and compensation equipment in BPDB's high voltage 
transmission system under Part D of the Project, and  for the acquisition of spare 
parts and testing equipment under Part F of the  Project, before that date but after 
September 30, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand and reinforce BPDB's 
distribution systems in the Project Towns to meet forecast demand at least  cost; (ii) 
stabilize BPDB's system voltage; (iii) increase BPDB's system  reliability; (iv) 
reduce BPDB's power losses in transmission and distribution;  and (v) improve BPDB's 
organizational and institutional performance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection or renovation of: (i) about 92 
kilometers of 33-kV lines; (ii) about 535 kilometers of 11-kV three-phase and  
single-phase lines; (iii) about 633 kilometers of 400 V lines and cables in the 
Project Towns.
Part B:
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection or renovation of about 1200 
Page  8
distribution substations of 90 MVA 11-kV, three-phase and single-phase, in the Project 
Towns.
Part C:
Acquisition of equipment for, and erection of about 20 substations of 33/11-kV 
175 MVA in the Project Towns.
Part D:
Acquisition and installation of capacitors and related compensation equipment: 
(i) of 250 Megavar at 33-kV in BPDB's high voltage system; and (ii)  of 30 Megavar at 
11-kV in the Project Towns.
Part E:
Acquisition and installation of three-phase and single-phase meters, metering 
equipment and meter seals in BPDB's distribution systems, and acquisition and 
utilization of meter test benches and sealing pliers.
Part F:
Acquisition of spare parts and testing equipment for BPDB's power stations, high 
voltage substations and transmission system. 
Part G:
Acquisition of about 23 utility vehicles, about 38 motorcycles, radio equipment 
and erection equipment for use by BPDB in the Project Towns.
Part H:
Acquisition of about 25 desk-top computers for operation and engineering staff 
in BPDB's regional accounts offices, and related familiarization of BPDB staff in the 
use of such computers for billings and accounts and in distribution system planning.
Part I:
Provision of technical assistance to BPDB in design, detailed engineering, bid 
evaluation and construction supervision required for Parts A through H of the Project.
Part J:
Institutional strengthening, including reorganization, of BPDB.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  9
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the  basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such  payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice  the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or  justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has  provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  10
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent   withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of  this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
