Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5411-BU
EMOSRANDUM AND RECOMMENDATTON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 16.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 14, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00           FBu 175
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Gwh   gigawatt hour             -  1 million kilowatt hours             Z
kgoe  kilos of oil equivalent  =  10,500 kilocalories
kv    kilovolt                  -  1,000 volts
kw    kilowatt                  -  1,000 watts
kva   kilovolt ampere           -  1,000 volt ampere
kwh   kilowatt hour                1,000 watts hour
Mw    megawatt                     1,000 kilowatt
Mwh   megawatt hour             -  1,000 kilowatt hour
toe   ton of oil equivalent    =  10,500,000 kilocalories
ton   metric ton                =  1.1 US tons
ABBREVIATIONS
DGE        Direction G4nErale de lEnergie
DGHER      Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique et des Energies Rurales
ESAF       Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW        Economic Sector Work
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MDRA       Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Artisanat
MEM        Ministare de l'Energie et des Mines
NGOs       Non-governmental organizations
ONATOUR    Office National de la Tourbe
PE         Public Enterprise
PEP        Public Expenditure Program
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PIP        Public Investment Program
REGIDESO   Regie de distribution d'eau et d'elect-ricite
SAF        Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SPA        Special Program for Africa
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Burundi
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Energy and Mines  (MEM), Ministry of Rural
Development and Artisanat (MDRA), REGIDESO (the state
electricity and water company) and ONATOUR (the state peat
agency).
Amount:           SDR 16.3 million (US$22.8 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA, 40 years
Onlending Terms: The Government of Burundi will onlend a maximum of SDR 4.4
million (US$6.2 million equivalent) of the Credit proceeds
to REGIDESO at a 8.72 percent interest rate for a period of
25 years (including a 5-year grace period).
Financing Plan:                                          US$ millions
IDA                                    22.8
Government                              5.6
REGIDESO                                3.8
TOTAL                                  32.2
Economic Rate of Return: 35Z (physical investments)
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 9068-BU, dated February 14, 1991
Map: IBRD 22083
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perf rfmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auti orizatio-.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR AN ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
Credit to the Republic of Burundi for SDR 16.3 million (US$22.8 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval.   The proposed Credit would be on
standard IDA terms and would help finance an energy sector rehabilitation
project. Part I of this memorandum outlines the country policies and Bank
assistance strategy. Part II describes the proposed Credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
2.       Burundi is a small landlocked country in Central Africa.  Its per
capita GDP is about US$220 (1989). With a population of about 5 million and
a population growth rate of 3 percent, Burundi has the second highest
population density in Africa (169 persons/square kilometer). About 94 percent
of the population lives in rural areas and the economy is highly dependent on
agriculture (more than half of GDP, 90 percent of employment and 90 percent of
export earnings).   Coffee accounts for 80 percent of total exports.   The
secondary sector (mining and manufacturing) represents only 14 percent of GDP
and 6 percent of exports.   The private sector plays a major role in the
production of both export and food crops and transport, while the public sector
enjoys a quasi-monopolistic position in the processing and export of primary
commodities, manufacturing, energy, and infrastructure, and generates half of
the country's formal employment.
3.        Since the country's independence in 1961, ethnic rivalry between the
minority Tutsis and the majority Hutus has been a major feature of Burundi's
political history. The Tutsis have ruled Burundi continuously for the last
three decades. The current government is led by President Buyoya, a Tutsi, who
took power in September 1987 in a military coup. In August 1988, there was an
outburst of ethnic violence in Burundi which led to a temporary outflow of
primarily Hutu refugees to neighboring countries. The President responded by
promoting a policy of national reconciliation and unity, appointing a new
cabinet with equal representation from the two ethnic groups and giving
priority to recruitment of Hutus in the administration. This policy has been
largely successful; peace has been restored and most of the refugees have
returned to Burundi. A significant opening-up of the political system is
underway.
4.       Burundi's anniual per capita growth has been consistently above
average levels for Sub-Saharan Africa since the mid 19609, while following the
general pattern of lower growth in the 1970s and stagnation in the 1980s.
However, its economic and financial situation has been closely linked to the
international price for coffee which has fluctuated widely from year to year.
In the 1982-85 period, lower coffee prices and adverse climatic conditions,
combined with expsnsionary fiscal and monetary policy, led to a financial



- 2 -
crisis.   The government responded with administrative controls aimed at
containing the external deficit and protecting domestic industry. External
borrowing, especially on non-concessional terms, accelerated, causing the debt
service ratio to increase from an average of 5 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services in the late 19708 to 25 percent in 1986. The distortions
introduced through these measures reinforced the role of the state in the
economy, aggravating disincentives to private sector development.
The Adiustment Program
5.        In late 1985, the government embarked on an adjustment program.  The
initial phase of the reform program was supported by the first of the Bank's
two structural adjustment credits  (SAL) and the first of three annual
arrangements under the IMF's struccural adjustment facility (SAP). The program
emphasized stabilization measures, established the first steps to bring about
structural changes and strengthened the management of public resources. The
exchange rate was devalued by 24 percent in SDR terms and a number of import
liberalization measures were taken. Production incentives were rationalized.
Except for products competing with those produced by public enterprises (PE),
quantitative restrictions on imports were removed and replaced by import
duties, and the first phase of a comprehensive tariff reform was introduced.
The number of tariff rates was cut and the tariff range for non-luxury goods
vas narrowed from 0-280 to 15-50. The number of prices controlled officially
by the government was reduced to certain strategic products and to producer
prices for key agricultural exports.   With respect to public  resource
management,  the government prepared a first public  investment program,
increased fiscal receipts and initiated reform of the PE sector with the
creation of an independent unit to monitor its performance.
6.       Following the completion of the first phase of the adjustment
program, there was a change in government and another collapse of the
international price of coffee, resulting in a 34 percent decline in coffee
export receipts.  Despite the setback, the government decided to pursue a
second phase of the adjustment program designed to broaden and deepen reforms.
A comprehensive package of additional measures was formulated to strengthen
macroeconomic management, create an incentive framework to stimulate exports,
reform public enterprises, improve public expenditure management, increase the
efficiency of the financial sector, and liberalize the labor market.
Assessment of Performance
7.       Measures taken under the adjustment program and the external support
mobilized as a result of the program enabled the Burundi economy to weather
external shocks without making sharp cuts in essential public sector programs
or reintroducing price and import controls.   While real growth declined
somewhat during the adjustment program from 5 percent in 1980-85 to 3.8 percent
in 1986-89, it was still slightly positive in per capita terms. Nevertheless,
the economy remains highly dependent on the international coffee price, both
with respect to fiscal and external receipts. This dependence on coffee helps
explain the fact that the ratio of exports to imports declined over the
adjustment period from 54 percent in 1986 to 38 percent in 1989. If the high
coffee prices of late 1988 and early 1989 had continued throughout 1989, then
the ratio would have remained at about the same level.



SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1984     1986     1086      198t    198       1989
GROWTH RATES a/
GOP Mp                      0.2      11.6      8.8      5.5      4.9      1.6
GDP/capita                 -2.6       8.6      0.8      2.6      1.8     -2.8
Consumption/capita         -1.3       9.8      6.7     -5.6 6    6.      -7.2
Export. (gns)              11.0      11.4     21.2    -12.0     12.3     -6.2
Imports (gnfe)             -8.1     -8.8       8.1      6.9    -1.1    -15.1
RATIOS (M) b/
Dobt Service/Xgnfs         16.7      24.4     24.5     42.7     80.t     42.2
Gross Investment/CDP       18.4      18.9     11.6     22.7     16.0     16.6
Qross Domestic Savings/G1P   5.6      8.8      1.2      6.0      1.6      4.4
Govt revenue/GDP    c/     12.7      18.2     16.0     12.8     15.7     18.1
Govt oxpenditure/GODP d/   29.2      25.1     24.5     29.6     28.7     28.0
Overall deficit/GDP o/    -16.5     -11.9     -8.5    -16.8    -11.1     -9.9
Current account    f/     -92.6    -88.6    -80.9   -125.6    -98.6    -58.1
Current account    g/    -180.6    -127.1   -142.6   -201.9   -162.4   -145.0
Current account/GOP h/     -9.4      -7.7     -6.7    -11.1    -8.9      -5.1
Current account/GDP I/    -13.2    -11.1    -11.9    -17.9    -15.0    -13.2
IMNDICES ;/
Consumer prices    k/     148.6     164.0    158.8    167.9    1765.    195.9
Real exchange rate  I/    132.8    136.3    116.6      99.9     88.0     90.5
a  Based on constant 1980 prices, F8u
b/ Bae#d on current prices
c/ Current revenue, excluding grant.
d/ Total expenditure
/ Excluding capital grant.
0/ Including current transfer receipts; In millions of USS
g Excluding current transfer roeeipts; In millions of USS
h/Including current transfer receipts
I Excluding current transfer receipts; In milliono of US8
1980 a 100
Bujumbura, Burundi
I Source: IMF
Source: Planning Ministry
8.        The adjustment program has not yet stimulated a strong supply side
response, partly because of the mixed signals given by the government to the
private sector. Even though the elaborate system of controls has been reduced,
the PE sector has remained basically unchanged.   However, new impetus for
reform is building up. After the civil strife in 1988, the government realized
that it was essential to accelerate the pace of economic and political reform.
It undertook a major public information campaign during the last half of 1989
and the first half of 1990, which has been successful in mobilizing national
support for the reform program and represents an important first step towards
changing attitudes. The second tranche of SAL IT was released in April 1990
and the third tranche is expected to be released in the next four to six
months. Performance under the four major components of SAL II is described
below.



- 4 -
9.       Public Resource Management.  The overall fiscal deficit remained at
about the same average level of 12 percent of GDP; however, during the period,
extra-budgetary expenditure has increasingly been integrated into the budget.
The number of extra-budgetary accounts has been reduced from over 500 in 1988
to 20 in 1991. On the revenue side, performance has improved due to increased
tax revenue, and non-tax revenue rose, owing to more systematic servicing of
external debt by the PEs. However, there are still many ad hoc tax exemptions
accorded which have limited potential revenue growth. On the expenditure side,
instruments for managing public expenditure are now in place but these have not
yet had an impact on the share of public expenditure in GDP which has remained
at abouxt 27 percent throughout the 19808. Procedures for formulating three-
year public investment programs (PIP) for all sectors have been established.
Detailed public expenditure programs (PEP) for 1990-92 and 1991-93 were also
prepared for three sectors with the assistance of the Bank staff. A consulting
firm has developed a methodology for preparing PEPs and a training program for
civil servants will begin shortly.   A partially unified budget (covering
revenue and current expenditure) was adopted in 1991 and full unification is
expected starting with the 1992 budget.
10.      Public Enterprise Reform.   There are 84 PEA in the sector that
accounted for 45 percent of gross capital formation between 1984 and 1987 but
generated only about 7 percent of GDP. This does not compare favorably with
the Sub-Saharan African average, which is 30 percent of gross capital formation
and 15 percent of GDP.   The PE restructuring component includes:   (i)
rehabilitation of certain public enterprises when justified by studies; (ii)
signing of performance contracts for strategic enterprises remaining under
government control; (iii) reduction of the size of the sector through merger,
privatization and liquidation; (iv) revision of the legal framework to increase
the management autonomy of the enterprises; and (v) completion of studies on
key issues such as pricing and tariff policies. There have been implementation
delays, and performance--even for those PEs that are being rehabilitated--
has yet to improve.
11.      Exchange and Trade Reforms. Under the program, effective protection
was to be reduced through trade reform and maintenance of a flexible exchange
rate policy.   The government has been largely successful on both counts;
however, these policies have not yet had a significant impact on the structure
and volume of production. An examination of the composition of major exports
reveals that most are either produced by PEs or, as in the case of agro-
industries,  are processed and exported by them.   Slow progress  on PE
restructuring has undermined the potential effect of tariff and exchange rate
reform on production of traditional exports, either because these enterprises
were too inefficient to respond to price signals or because, as in the case of
agro-industry, the windfall in local currency terms from devaluation was
absorbed by the enterprises instead of being passed on to producers. In the
case of a number of low volume, high value agricultural export products
recently introduced by the private sector, such as tobacco, passion fruit and
cut flowers, farmers have generally received higher shares of the international
price.
12.      The Incentive Structure. The incentive system was to be rationalized
to improve resource allocation. De Jure price controls have been eliminated
where there is some element of competition and prices in monopolistic or



oligopolistic sub-sectors are kept under review. Nevertheless, the government
has utilized the import licensing system and its influence in PEs to maintain
some indirect price controls but is now addressing the issue in preparation for
the next phase of reform. The producer price for rice has been liberalized and
a progressive liberalization of the coffee producer price is expected in the
context of the ongoing coffee sector project.
13.      With the political reforms underway and the atmosphere of open
dialogue created during the public information campaign on economic reforms,
the government's capacity to make significant progress on Burundi's central
development issues has been greatly enhanced. There are signs that the economy
is improving:   the average number of annual commercial and industrial
enterprise creations has doubled recently as has the number of importers. The
government is increasingly taking charge of the reform program. In January
1991, the Council of Ministers adopted a revised policy for the PE sector which
calls for an acceleration of the divestiture of the government's portfolio.
The government also took the initiative to prepare the first draft of the
Policy Framework Paper for 1991-93 and is currently formulating proposals for
the third phase of the adjustment process.
Central Development Issues
14.       The Role of the State.  Burundi's formal economy is still over-
whelmingly public sector and is supported by substantial official development
assistance. A major challenge for the years ahead is to shift the economy to
one that is characterized by a smaller, more efficiently managed public sector
co-existing with an emerging private sector. The transition is a difficult one
and will take time to achieve.   Following the first two phases of the
adjustment process, which have increased the government's capacity to monitor
public expenditures and the performance of PEs and to redirect public
investment towards the maintenance of social and economic infrastructure, the
instruments for effectively redefining the role of government are now in place.
In fact, a recent survey of private businessmen revealed that private sector
confidence in the government's commitment to a more limited role in productive
sectors has increased. The government will continue improving public sector
management while  concentrating  on  the  removal  of  bottlenecks  at  the
microlsectoral level in order to stimulate growth.
15.      Diversification of the Economy.  Sustained growth in Burundi will
result in a reduction in the country's dependence on coffee exports. Since
1986, the number of products exported by the private sector has increased, even
though export volume has not yet picked up significantly. Continued efforts
to liberalize the economy and, in particular, to provide an adequate legal and
regulatory framework will create a favorable enabling environment for export-
led private sector growth over the medium term. In the short to medium term,
efforts to diversify the economy will also focus on improving the efficiency
of existing enterprises (both public and private) with emphasis on a major
restructuring of agro-industry.   Nevertheless,  constraints such as  the
mountainous terrain, the lack of direct access to the sea and the small size
of the domestic market will tend to limit the rapidity with which the economy's
structure can be modified.



16.      Distortions in Factor Markets. The public sector resource allocation
process has generally bypassed domestic factor markets (financial and labor).
Wages have been set by government, due to the quasi-monopolistic position of
the public sector in the labor market. Capital financing for the public sector
has been obtained primarily from external donors on grant terms or at
subsidized interest rates rather than through the domestic banking sector.
However, with an increasing role for the private sector in productive
activities, the need for market-determined pricing of capital and labor has
become apparent.
17.      Experience with the Bank's line of credit to enterprises through
commercial banks demonstrates that, despite reforms, the competitiveness of
the financial sector still needs improvement. Commercial banks are reluctant
to lend for investment projects even when their potential financial viability
can be demonstrated.  The banking sector's lack of interest in medium-term
lending has also placed a damper on efforts to increase domestic resource
mobilization.   Similarly, distortions in the labor market have persisted
partly, due to automatic wage adjustments in the modern sector which have made
it difficult to reduce real wages through devaluation. The labor code, despite
revisions made during the second phase of adjustment, continues to discourage
employment  creation  through  excessive  regulation  and  administrative
difficulties involved in hiring and firing employees.   The formal private
sector is also required to bear 100 percent of its employees' and their
dependents' medical expenses.   The government is currently undertaking a
comprehensive review of the labor code.
18.      Population Growth.  Burundi's Economic and Social Council, created
in 1990 to provide a forum for discussing development issues with participants
from all segments of the population, has just issued a draft study of the
country's longer-term development prospects and constraints.   The study
considers the high level of population growth as the single most important
constraint to future economic and social development.   The government has
launched an ambitious campaign to inform the public of the need for and the
means of improving family planning. While training for health center staff in
the use of contraceptives has proceeded satisfactorily, contraceptive
prevalence has not yet increased.
19.      Environment.  Rising population density has led to fragmentation of
agricultural land, overgrazing, declining soil fertility and the use of
ecologically fragile and marginal lands for cultivation. The growing scarcity
of woodfuels and loss of natural forest habitats have taken place in response
to an over-exploitation of forests to meet rising demand for fuelwood. An
estimated 90 percent of wood production is utilized for domestic energy
consumption.   In some areas there are already imbalances between wood
consumption and supply.   In recognition of the increasing importance of
environmental issues for Burundi's economic and social prospects, a special
Ministry for Land Management, Tourism and Environment was created in 1988. The
government is currently preparing an environmental action plan which will be
structured around the following themes:   land use and population growth,
management of natural environment, energy use and internal migration and
urbanization.



Composition of Past Bank Assistance
20.       Since 1970, Burundi has received 40 IDA credits and one IBRD loan
for a total of US$576.5 million, and one investment operation from the IFC
totaling US$5.6 million (loan and equity investment). IDA lending operations
have financed: (a) infrastructure (28.8 percent), including road maintenance,
a reform program in the transport sector, development of the telecommunications
network, water supply and urban development; (b) agricultural and rural
development (23.8 percent), with special emphasis on farming systems research,
lmproving extension services, and forestry and fisheries development; (c) the
structural adjustment program (21.1 percent); (d) human resources development
(15 percent), especially in education and preventive health services and family
planning; (e) industry and finance programs (4.9 percent); (f) energy (4.8
percent); and (g) technicai assistance programs (1.6 percent).
21.       The current portfolio includes 16 IDA credits. IDA lending increased
markedly in the 1985-90 period with the approval of two SALs, two major credits
to agriculture, and substantial support to the health and education sectors.
However, the disbursement pattern for the portfolio over the past three years
has remained steady (US$48.6 million in calendar year 1990, US$45.6 million in
1989, and US$44.4 million in 1988). Annual commitments have averaged US$84
million for FY87-90.   Forty percent of total commitments is undisbursed
(US$231.7 million).  Project implementation is, on the whole, satisfactory
with a disbursement rate that is above average for the region.   Physical
implementation of projects has been adequate, and the impact of IDA financed
projects on institutional development has been positive, despite implementation
delays.
DISTRIBUTION OF LENDING, FY71-90
(US$ Million)
Sector                      Amount           Z        No. of Projects
Infrastructure                 165.1         28.8              12
Agriculture                    136.6         23.8              10
Human Resources                 86.3         15.0               5
Energy                          27.3          4.8               2
Finances and Industry           28.1          4.9               5
Technical Assistance             9.1          1.6               3
Structural Adjustment          121.2         21.1               3
TOTAL                  573.7         100.0              40
22.      The Bank's dialogue with the government has been generally good and
has become more frank and cooperative since the government's successful
internalization of the adjustment program and its move towards national
reconciliation.   While economic policy decisions, which are now made on a
consensus basis, seem to require more time to reach, the effectiveness of
implementation has been enhanced considerably by a more widespread
understanding of and support for the program.



- a -
Country Assistance Strategy and Priorities
23.      The Bank's main objective in Bunrundi is to promote sustained growth
and reduce poverty. Through its policy advice and economic and sector work,
the Bank is supporting Burundi's efforts to develop an incentive structure
geared at promoting export-oriented private sector investment, and to reorient
public expenditure away from productive sectors and towards social and economic
infrastructure. The aim is to encourage a significant suppl- iide response by
addressing the central development issues discussed in an earlier section.
24.      The Bank and other donors have responded generously with budget and
balance of payments financing in support of the first two phases of the
adjustment  program.    These  resources havy  been utilized primarily for
offsetting the impact of external shocks and most recently, accumulating
external reserves. Given the present comfortable level of reserves, borrowing
requirements to finance balance of payments gaps over the next two to three
years will be limited. In view of the shifting resource requirements of the
next phase of adjustment which will focus on the supply side, the Bank will
reduce the level of quick-disbursing assistance and introduce new vehicles for
directly promoting the private sector. Resources for the private sector will
be channelled through the domestic banking sector and the Bank will focus on
ensuring that adequate levels of equity financing are available and domestic
resource mobilization is strengthened through the creation of new savings
instruments.
25.      As the government divests itself of directly productive activities,
it will be looking increasingly to the private sector to provide it with
certain essential goods and services. The donors are encouraging this process
by using their projects to create market opportunities for the private sector
in the form of maintenance contracts for certain public assets, other types of
construction work and greater use of local consultants.
26.      The Bank's assistance strategy involves a three-pronged approach:
(i) providing support for an acceleration and deepening of the adjustment
process through a modest level of non-project assistance; (ii) stimulating
the productive sectors through investment operations; and (iii) designing
social and economic infrastructure operations that will lay the groundwork for
improving long-term development prospects while introducing more financially
sustainable funding mechanisms for providing social services and maintaining
public assets. The lending program calls for two to three operations a year.
27.      The Adjustment Process.  A third adjustment operation (SAL III) is
currently under preparation. It would emphasize reforms necessary to achieve
a supply response and would help ac lerate and deepen the adjustment process.
Major reforms would focus on remL   g remaining price controls and fully
liberalizing imports and exports of goods and services, accelerating the
restructuring and privatization of PEs to reduce further the role of the state,
and providing an appropriate enabling environment to encourage more private
sector investment by both local and foreign entrepreneurs.



- 9 -
28.       Promotion and Restructuring of Productive Sectors.  To complement
the Bank's support to the government's adjustment program, the lending program
includes investment operations in agro-industry and private sector development.
These operations would be focused on promoting the creation of private sector
enterprises in new sectors while increasing the competitiveness of traditional
agro-industries by creating conditions for private sector entry and improving
the efficiency of existing PEs.  Longer-term issues which could compromise
Burundi's agricultural production potential are to be addressed in an
environment and land development project.   The project would support the
implementation of the government's environmental action plan and measures to
prevent a possible deterioration in the generally satisfactory food security
situation, through erosion control, management of water resources, including
irrigation networks, and reforestation.
29.      Economic Infrastructure.  In the infrastructure area, the proposed
Energy Sector Rehabilitation Credit, discussed in part two of this report, is
fully consistent with the Bank's strategy. The project is designed to improve
the efficiency of REGIDESO (the water and electricity utility) through better
management, to promote more efficient use of various energy sources through
appropriate pricing policies, to enhance the quality of the sector's PEP and
to provide greater focus on the environmental impact of energy use. Another
project will support the government's efforts to expand rural infrastructure
including the population's access to safe drinking water. Systematic attention
to the maintenance of investments will be given through regular reviews of the
sector PEPs, wider application of cost recovery measures and shifting the
responsibility for the management and maintenance of facilities to the local
governments (communes).
30.       Social Services. The Bank will be giving priority to increasing the
prevalence of the use of contraceptives as a means of controlling population
growth. Access to family planning services is being expanded and integrated
with primary health care services. The objective of future operations in the
health and population area will be to continue rationalizing delivery systems,
with special emphasis on preventive medicine, family planning, decentralized
management of health facilities and cost recovery. Considerable efforts have
been made both by go -rnment and by parents to increase access to primary
education and gross enrollment has reached 70 percent. The ratio of girls and
boys enrolled at the primary level, at about 45 percent and 55 percent
respectively, is fairly well balanced, but needs further improvement. The
Bank's support for education sector reform will continue to emphasize the
enhancement of the quality of education in primary and secondary schools by
upgrading teacher and student skills and improving teachers' living conditions
especially at the primary level.
31.      Poverty Alleviation. In the context of the public expenditure review
process, the Bank staff will continue to encourage the government to allocate
sufficient budgetary resources to meet the needs of the poorest segments of the
population, both longer-term and those that may be identified with the
adjustment process. This target group is comprised largely of women who are
heads of household and street chileren. The government has not requested a
free-standing project on the role of women in development but is targeting
women through the Bank-supported education and health projects, as well as the
agricultural services project which focuses on more user-friendly extension



- 10 -
services to farmers, of which women are a major group. In addition, a social
action project is currently under preparation and will make resources available
through the communes and NGOs to address the needs of vulnerable groups
including women and children.
32.       In order to improve prospects for the implementation of the Bank's
strategy and the institutional sustainability of Bank operations, greater
focus will given to the area of capacity building. Technical assistance and
training needs will be taken into account by: (i) expediting implementation
of the existing technical assistance project to help the government in
designing macro and sectoral policies and (ii) including technical assistance
components in future sector projects that reinforce public sector management
objectives pursued at the macro level. The Bank will support government's
efforts  to  improve  project  implementation  through  regular  country
implementation reviews and by devoting more resources to project supervision.
Special emphasis will be given to streamlining procurement procedures and
accelerating disbursements.
33.      Economic and Sector Work.  The intellectual underpinnings of the
Bank's strategy and dialogue with the government are established largely
through economic and sector work. The work is supportive of the strategy to
address Burundi's central development issues. With respect to the adjustment
agenda, the UNDP through an umbrella project for which the Bank is executing
agent, is financing studies to evaluate the impact of SAL I and II and to
prepare SAL III. The recently completed Public Expenditure Review and the
Project Completion Report for SAL I and II (to be distributed to the Executive
Directors shortly) have constituted critical inputs in the Bank's efforts to
convince the government of the need to deepen the adjustment process. Bank
staff has undertaken two major sectoral studies to provide a better assessment
of the potential and constraints in Burundi's major productive sectors. The
first, an industrial sector review, is approaching completion. It assesses
relevant macro and micro issues including the enabling environment for the
private sector and identifies bottlenecks to be addressed in SAL III and the
private sector development operation. An in-depth analysis of the agricultural
sector has also been undertaken. It addresses the issues of land tenure, soil
erosion, rural credit and input use, export promotion, product development and
more user-responsive extension services. This work is being complemented by
studies on the labor market and communal development and will provide inputs
for operations under preparation.  For   social   services   and   economic
infrastructure the Bank will give high priority to regular reviews of energy
and transport issues, and to support for the formulation of a national
population strategy.
34.      Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF.  Burundi is eligible
for the SPA program which has been highly successful in mobilizing non-project
assistance in support of Burundi's adjustment program.  Over the last four
years the Bank has kept interested donors informed of its policy discussions
with the government and is associating cofinanciers with the supervision of SAL
II and the preparation of SAL III. A technical group, under the chairmanship
of the Bank and comprised of representatives from all the major donors, meets
regularly in Bujumbura to discuss ongoing concerns and to participate in the



- 11 -
Bank's economic missions. The Bank has also actively participated in round
table meetings organized by the UNDP in 1988 and 1989 as well as in sector
follow-up meetings.
35.      The Bank staff and the Fund staff have collaborated closely in
supporting the adjustment program in Burundi. Three Policy Framework Papers
(in 1986, 1988 and 1989) were prepared in collaboration with the government
during a series of Bank/Fund joint economic missions. A fourth PFP is under
preparation and will cover the 1991-93 period.   The IMF staff is also
considering a modest ESAP since Burundi has successfully completed all three
arrangements under the SAP. Burundi had recourse to six standby arrangements
with the Fund in the mid to late 1960s, and again in 1976 and 1986; however,
these resources have been fully reimbursed. Drawings under a Compensatory
Financing Facility approved in 1979, have also been repurchased. The country's
credit position with the Fund is limited to the three annual SAF arrangements
totalling US$ 42.6 million.
Country Risks and Contingency
36.      There are factors which could cause  serious  slippages  in the
implementation of reforms and hence the capacity of the Bank to pursue its
strategy.  These are both political and economic.  First, the national and
regional political situation remains fragile. Ethnic conflict in neighboring
Rwanda (involving the same two groups as in Burundi) could lead to a
de-stabilization of the current Burundi regime and its attempts to increase
power sharing peacefully. The government remains convinced that the best means
of avoiding more ethnic conflict is by pushing forward with democratization and
with economic reforms. However, a potential short- to medium-term unemployment
problem could arise with shifts in the composition of public expenditures
(away from salaries and towards goods and services) and the liquidation of
unviable PEs. The government will be monitoring the situation closely and the
Bank has agreed to support employment generating activities through private
sector development. On the political side, priority is already being given to
changing attitudes through continued public information campaigns and to
introducing a more democratic form of government.
37.      Second,  exogenous  factors,  such  as  irregular  rainfall,  sharp
fluctuations in international prices for coffee, and to a lesser extent, the
Gulf crisis and its impact on oil prices, have undermined efforts to restore
growth. While the comfortable level of reserves could help deal with the
foreign exchange consequences of these shocks, it does not compensate for the
country's ensuing income loss. In view of the evolving political climate,
continued mediocre growth linked to exogenous factors could tempt some elements
of the government to push for postponement of potentially unpopular reforms.
38.      The Bank has developed an alternative lending scenario to take into
account risks of slippage. If government commitment to reform lags as a result
of political difficulties, the Bank would remain flexible and allow the
government time to build a consensus on politically sensitive reforms, but
would, in the interim, postpone new adjustment operations and limit the lending
program to investment projects only.



- 12 -
Criteria for Evaluating Progress
39.      Progress  towards  implementing  economic  reforms  and  achieving
sustained growth will be monitored closely.  A key criterion, barring any
further adverse developments in coffee prices, will be the extent to which
the economy can increase exports and its ability to cover import requirements
through export earnings. Another indicator will be the rate of growth of
the private sector in terms of investment and production and in terms of
employment. On the public resource management front, progress will be assessed
on the basis of changes in the volume and composition of public expenditure
towards a containment of expenditure in real terms and a shift away from
investments in productive sectors in favor of meeting the operating costs of
critical social services and economic infrastructure.   Improvements in the
efficiency of PEs will also be considered. To determine the effectiveness of
safety net features in the PEP, the Bank will monitor a number of social
indicators such as the percentage of the population living below the poverty
line and average daily caloric intake.  The degree to which cost recovery
mechanisms are applied to health, education and rural water supply and
decentralization to the commune level of management responsibility for these
services will also be kept under review.
Summary Assessment
40.      Burundi does  not benefit  from a  significant natural  resource
endowment. Nevertheless, the country has a favorable climate for agricultural
production and has been able to feed its growing population despite problems
of soil erosion, small farm size and minimal use of modern inputs. On the
whole, Burundi has been successful in implementing most of the measures
recoammended by the Bank and the Fund. In order to maintain momentum in favor
of economic reforms and to minimize the risks involved in the political reform
agenda, real per capita growth must be restored. Focus will be on obtaining
increased production in response to reforms by accelerating the liberalization
process and concentrating on sector and micro issues.
41.      The Bank's main objective  in Burundi is to promote  sustained
export-led growth while reducing poverty. Through its policy advice and ESW,
the Bank will concentrate on the development of an incentive structure geared
to promoting private sector investment, and on reorienting public expenditure
towards social and economic infrastructure, the development of human capital
and the preservation of the environment. The lending program calls for two to
three operations a year, including two adjustment operations over the next
three years. The program will be assessed on the degree to which exports can
be covered by imports and on changes in the volume and composition of public
expenditure consistent with a diminishing role of government in the productive
sectors. Should government commitment to the economic reform program lag then
the Bank would postpone any new adjustment operations.



- 13 -
PART II - THE CREDIT
42.      Background.  Burundi's energy consumption is low, corresponding to
only 188 kilos of oil equivalent (kgoe) per capita. Wood and other biomass
meet 94 percent of the country needs, while petroleum products account for
5 percent and electricity for 1 percent. Annual wood consumption is estimated
at about 2.4 million metric tons, of which 17 percent is used for charcoal
production. The sustainable supply of wood is estimated at about 1.7 million
metric tons per year, or 70 percent of demand.   Localized deforestation
problems are already evident around urban centers. Under a program financed
by IDA, 15,000 improved stoves have been sold in Bujumbura since 1985, saving
about 35 percent of the charcoal used in traditional stoves. This program will
be strengthened under the proposed Credit. More efficient charcoal production
methods were introduced in some industrial plantations under two IDA financed
forestry projects.   The proposed Credit will revitalize and expand these
efforts and introduce them to traditional charcoalers who represent the largest
share of production.
43.      The per capita consumption of modern fuels (petroleum products and
electricity) is only 12 kgoe, well below the 95 kgoe average for Sub-Saharan
Africa. Petroleum product consumption increased by five percent per year in
1980-88, while electricity consumption grew by 11 percent per year.   All
national petroleum requirements are met through imports, representing 30
percent of total export revenues in 1989. Petroleum products are imported and
distributed by five private companies and the government confines itself to
supervision and price control. Retail prices for gasoline, diesel and kerosene
have generally been kept above international prices but remained unchanged
since 1983 until 1990, when petroleum prices were increased by 30 percent.
But these adjustments were not sufficient to compensate for the sharp increase
in international prices in the wake of the Gulf crisis. The existing price
structure is too complicated and does not give incentives to importers to
reduce transport costs. Under the proposed Credit, the government has agreed
to simplify the pricing structure and adopt a policy of automatic price
adjustments.
44.      Only 1.5 percent of the population uses electricity and 82 percent
of total consumption is concentrated in Bujumbura. As the urban population
represents only six percent of the total, rural electrification is crucial for
increasing access to electric services. The proposed Credit will finance the
extension of the distribution network in both urban and rural areas and will
define a strategy for economically justified rural electrification. In April
1990, in the context of the dialogue for the preparation of the proposed
project, the government decided on comprehensive electric tariff reform.
Medium-voltage rates were inmediately adjusted to meet long-run marginal costs,
while the adjustment was phased in for low-voltage users, with an initial
increase of 27 percent for all consumption above 375 kwh per month. A social
tariff for consumers using less than 75 kwh per month was also established,
while the free electricity received by high government officials and utility
company personnel was eliminated.
45.      The agency responsible for the energy sector is the Directorate of
Energy (DGE) in the Ministry of Energy and Mines. its main task is to oversee
the sector as a whole, assessing priorities and ensuring overall coordination



- 14 -
among subsectors. REGIDESO is responsible for the generation transmission and
distribution of electricity in urban areas, while rural areas fall under the
authority of the DGHER. The DGE, as well as REGIDESO and DGHER, will receive
assistance from the proposed project to improve their respective performance
in financial management, planning and training.
46.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's objectiva in Burundi is
to promote sustainable and equitable economic growth through supporting the
government in deepening and broadening the adjustment process. The proposed
project fits well into this strategy in that it extends adjustment to a key
sector of the economy by encouraging the more efficient use of energy resources
through appropriate pricing policies.   It also addresses important social
concerns through the introduction of special electricity tariffs for low income
groups and the provision of electricity in the poorer rural areas. The project
is also responsive to the need to pay greater attention to the environmental
impact of energy resource use.
47.      The  project  is  a  logical  extension  of  ongoing  IDA-supported
structural adjustment operations in Burundi. It strengthens institutions in
a key sector and contributes to the quality of the public investment program
and the efficiency in the use of resources. The Bank is playing an important
role in the design of investments in the energy sector which represent about
10 percent of the public investment program. In rural electrification, in
particular, the Bank's presence is a key element of external financing
coordination in support of economically justified projects.   Finally, the
agreements reached after a dialogue with the Bank on pricing policies for
petroleum products, electricity and woodfuels should lead to increased
efficiency in the economy and to an improved allocation of resources.
48.      The project also addresses important environmental concerns.  About
90-95 percent of wood production in Burundi is for domestic energy consumption
of fuelvood and charcoal.   Forestry and woodfuels data are poor, but for
certain areas of the country there are signs of significant imbalances between
wood consumption and sustainable supply, and environmental problems are
emerging. Through the improved charcoal stoves and carbonization programs,
the project will improve efficiency in the consumption of woodfuels. These
actions, together with the design of the strategy for the management of wood
resources and the increased access to alternative fuels, would reduce the
negative effects of energy resource use on the environment.
49.      Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project are to promote
rational energy policies and to strengthen the efficient management of energy
resources. Specifically, the project aims to: (i) improve efficiency in the
use of energy resources through reforms in the pricing structure of electri-
city, petroleum products and woodfuels; (ii) develop efficient institutions in
the sector and improve the quality of public investment; (iii) expand access
to electricity; and (iv) reduce negative environmental effects of the use of
energy through charcoal efficiency and improved stove program.
50.      Project Description. The main features of the project are summarized
as follows:  (a) Energy Sector Institution Building:  (i) pricing policies
reflecting the economic cost of supply in electricity, petroleum and woodfuels;
(ii) a Rehabilitation Program for REGIDESO that includes management assistance,



- 15 -
financial reatructuring, equipment and construction of limited facilities and
training; (I i) feasibility studies for selected hydroelectric power projects
and an update of the power sector Master Plan; (iv) institutional strengthening
of the DGE in planning, coordinating and overseeing the energy sector; (v)
institutional strengthening of the DGHER in support of efficient rural
electrification; and (vi) coordination and monitoring of the public investment
program in the energy sector; (b) Biomass and Household Energy: (i) a Charcoal
Efficiency Program to disseminate improved techniques for the production of
charcoal and sensitize charcoalers to the issue of deforestation; (ii) conti-
nuation of the Improved Charcoal Stoves Program which aims at reducing charcoal
and wood consumption; (iii) a household energy consumption survey to improve
the planning process; and (iv) a feasibility study of peat substitution in
secondary industries to determine the viability of increasing the use of these
resources; (c) Rural Electrification: (i) Rural Electrification Master Plan
to evaluate potential projects in rural areas; and (ii) selected economically
justified extensions of the distribution network in rural areas; (d) Power
Subsector:   (i) doubling of the 110 kV transmission line from Bubanza to
Bujumbura and extensions in associated substations; and (ii) an intensive
program of new connections and extension of the distribution network in urban
areas.
51.      Agreed Actions.  The government is committed to the following main
actions: (a) electricity tariffs will be based on long-run marginal cost of
supply; the implementation of this policy for low-voltage users will be
completed by December 31, 1991 (it has already been completed for medium-
voltage users) and tariffs will be reviewed annually with the Bank; (b) a
policy of automatic adjustments of petroleum prices will be implemented before
Credit effectiveness and a simplified pricing structure will be adopted before
September 30, 1991; (c) annual agreement will be sought with the Bank on the
three-year rolling public investment and expenditure program in the energy
sector; (d) new investments by REGIDESO will have an economic rate of return
of at least 10 percent and a financial rate of return of at least 8 percent;
(e) DGHER will request Bank approval before initiating any new rural electri-
fication project and for each of them will demonstrate that the internal
economic rate of return is at least 10 percent, projected revenues cover all
operating and maintenance expenses and that an adequate billing and collection
system has been designed and will be in place; (f) REGIDESO will recruit before
Credit effectiveness chiefs for its Accounting Department and Internal Auditing
Unit; (f) DGHER will appoint before Credit effectiveness a project manager for
the execution of the rural electrification and charcoal efficiency components
and hire an expert in finance and accounting.
52.      Benefits.  The largest benefits will come from the pricing policy
reforms and the institutional strengthening to be implemented under the
project. The energy sector is a key sector and efficient use of its resources
and improved public investments quality will enhance growth prospects.
The charcoal efficiency and the improved charcoal stoves programs will reduce
charcoal and wood consumption and represent an important element in the
strategy to reduce deforestation and address environmental concerns.
The programs for new electricity connections in urban areas and for rural
electrification will increase access to electricity, improve the quality of



- 16 -
life, and contribute to increases in rural production. The average economic
rate of return of the investment programs supported by the project has been
estimated at 35 percent.
53.      Risks.   The physical risks of this project are minimal because
construction work in transmission and distribution lines would be executed
under well-known conditions. The main risks are institutional: the government
may resist further increases in energy prices; REGIDESO may waiver in its
commitment to implement the Rehabilitation Program; the present institutional
framework of the DGHER may not be adequate to manage successfully the rural
electrification projects or the charcoal efficiency programs. The government's
recent track record with implementing difficult energy pricing decisions and
the current levels suggest that the risk of government not taking necessary
actions in the future is low. Planning for the rehabilitation of REGIDESO has
been the subject of long-standing and intensive dialogue and preparation, and
REGIDESO is unlikely to go back on it at this stage. Furthermore, several
components of the proposed project aim at strengthening the implementing
agencies to further reduce risks. Advertising campaigns for more efficient
charcoal producing techniques and the use of improved charcoal stoves will be
carefully prepared and monitored for effective sensitization of targeted
groups.
54.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 14, 1991



- 17 -                                SCHEDULE A
BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foroln       Total
-------J7TTn)
A. Eneray Sector Institution Bul ding
REGIDESO Rehabilitation Program
Management assistance                    1.08       2.87       8.89
uTilding and material                    1.94       1.84       S.79
Tralning                                 0.04       0.47       0.52
Strengthening of DOE                         0.00       0.50       0.50
Strengthening of DOHER                       0.20       0.00       0.20
Hydropower feasibility studies               0.10       3.88       8.48
B. Biomess and Household Ener,y
Charcoal efficiency program                  0.88       0.29       0.61
Improved charcoal stoves program             0.22       0.10       0.82
Household energy consumption survey          0.08       0.11       0.17
Peat substituti on study                     0.00       0.26       0.28
C. Rural Electrification
Master Plan                                  0.01       0.29       0.80
Extension projects                           1.04       2.21       8.25
D. Power Subsector
110 kV transmission line                     0.82       8.09       8.41
Connections and distribution                 1.80       2.66       8.98
E. Pro ect Monaaeent
A Administration                         0.20       0.00       0.20
Total Base Cost                              -.TI To.08            24.86
Duties and Taxes                             1.59       0.00       1.59
Contingencles
Physlcal                                    1.01       1.79       2.79
Price                                       1.68       1.29       2.96
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     1.06      2.14       U2.19
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign          Total       X of Total
-----------------US$ millions-------------
IDA                       3.2          19.6         22.8             70.8
Government                4.6           1.0           5.6            17.4
REGIDESO                  3.8           --            3.8            11.8
TOTAL                11.6          20.6          32.2           100.0



- 18 -                                SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
PROCUREMENT METHOD S/
NUS mlillIono)
iCe        LCB       Consultants k   Other      Total
A. Eneray Sector Institution Building
DREOZOESO Rhabilitation Progrem
Management assistence                                      4.5  (3.0)                 4.5
Building and material            1.5  (1.6)   2.6                        0.6 (0.6)   4.7
Training                                                   0.5  (0.5)    0 1 (0.1)   0.6
Strongthening of DOE                                         0.5  (0.5)    0.1 (0.1)   0.6
Strengthening of DOHER                                       0.8  (0.8)                 0.8
Hydropower feasibility studies                               4.0  (4.0)    0.1          4.1
Subtotal                         1.5  (1.6)   2.6          9.6  (6.8)    0.0 (0.6)  14.6
B. Biouses and household energy
Charcoal efficlency program                                  0.7  (0.7)    0.1 (0.1)   0.6
Improved charcoal stoves                                     0.8  (0.8)    0.2 (0.1)   0.4
Household energy consumption survey                          0.1  (0.1)    0.1 (0.1)   0.2
Peat substitution study                                      0 2   02)    0.1    1)   0.3
Subtotal                                                   1 8  (1.8)    0.5 (0.4)   1.8
C. Rural Electrificatlon Comoonent
Master Plan                                                  0.4  (0.4)                 0.4
Extnsion projects                  2.6  (2.6)   0.7 (0.6)                  0.6          4.1
Subtotal                         2.6  (2.6)   0.7 (0.5)   0.4  (0.4)    0.6           4.5
0. Powr Subsector Component
110 ii transmisslon  ilne          8.6  (8.5)   0.5                                     4.1
Connections and distribution       8.2  (8 2)                              1.6          5.0
Subtotal                         6.6  (6.6)   0.5                        1.6          9.1
E. Pro*ect manageent  administration                           0.8  (0.8)                 0.8
TOTAL                             10.9  (108)   a.s-(           8 (108     4.0 (I. 2)  B0- 6
(22.6)
p/  Duties and taxes not Includ6d.  Figures In parenthesos are the amounts proposed to be
financed by IDA.
y   Consulting services retained in aceordance with World bank guidelines.



- 19 -                         SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
Category                                   Amount   Percentage Financed
(1) Consultants' services and training    8.7       100X of total expenditures
(2) Civil works                             1.2     100X of foreign expenditures
and 80X of local expenditures
(3) Equipment, materials and vehicles
. REGIDESO                              6.6     100X of foreign expenditures
. Others                                3.2     1002 of foreign expenditures
and 802 of local expenditures
(4) Project Preparation Facility            1.0
(5) Unallocated                             2.1
TOTAL                            22.8
Estimated IDA Disbursementss
IDA Fiscal Year
FY91     FY92      FY93     FY94      FY95
-----------US$ million-------------
Annual                0.6       7.7      8.6       4.5      1.4
Cumulative            0.6      8.3      16.9     21.4      22.8



- 20 -                          SCHEDULE C
BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:             18 months
(b) Prepared bys                       Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:                 April 1989
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       June 18, 1990
(e) Negotiations:                      January 1991
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:    June 30, 1991



- 21 -                               SCHEDULE D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1990)
Amount In USS millon
Fiscal                                                     (lose cancel lotions)
Credit No.     Year     Borrower    Puroose                          Dank    IDA (1)  Undlebursod
1 Loan fully disbursed                                               4.80
28 Credite (including 1 SFA) fully disbursed                                  224.42
-of which 1 SAL
Cr. 170C        a6      Burundl      SAL I                                     16.00
Cr. A017        so      Burundi      SAL I (SFA)                       -       10.20
Sub-totel closed SAL
16 disbureing credits
Cr. 1456        04      Burundi      Third Technical Assstance                   5.10         .90
Cr. 15          86      Burundi      Fourth Highway                            18.10         2.74
Cr. 1598        85      Burundi      Power Trans.. a Dietrib.                  12.30         8.61
Cr. 1620        s8      Burundi      Second Forestry                           12.80         7.48
Cr. 1625        86      Burundi      Rural Water Supply                         9.50         2.19
Cr. 1796        87      Burundi      Eco. A Pub. Enterprise M9mt.               7.60         5.38
Cr. 1605        67      Burundl      Second Telecommunihctions                  4.80         4.33
Cr. 1857        68      Burundi      Uuyinga Agric. Develop.                   10.00         9.24
Cr. 1662        as      Burundi      Population a Health                       14.00         8.90
Cr. 1661        so      Burundi      Education SUctor Dew.                     81.50        19.67
Cr. 1689        68      Burundi      Small Enterprise/APEX                      6.00         7.26
Cr. 1919        es      Burundi      SAL II                                    90.00        27.72
Cr. 1968        69      Burundi      Second Urban Devolopment                  21.00        20.70
Cr. 2024        69      Burundi      Agricultural Services                      3.10        88.16
Cr. 2105        90      Burundi      Transport Sector  a/                      48.20        45.91
Cr. 2128        90      Burundi      Coffee Sector                             28.00        29.58
Sub-Total active projects                                               U.
Total Outstanding (lose cancellations)                         4.80    657.02
-of which has been repaid                                   4.60        6.29
Total Due (hold by Bank and IDA)                               0.00     893.89
Total undisbursed                                              0.00     231.69
--Sulm                                                         -26.68 (1)
a/~ Not yet effective
(1) Sum of 'Total Due" and 'Total undisburoed' Is higher than
0TotsI Outstanding" because of depreciation of the USS.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1990)
Amount In US8 million
Date     Borrower                   TYDe of Businss                 CLoan       EquIty       Total
1981     Verreries du Burundi       Glass Container                   4.6        1.0          6.6
Total Cross Commitment Loss
Cancellations, Torminations,
Repaymenst and Sales                                           .0        1.0          1.0
Total Comitments Now Held by IFC                                 .0        1.0          1.0
Total Undisbureed                                                .0         .0           .0



CAMO0N\                                ;
A,;-  -i                                               BURUNDI
GAONGO
O GONlF ,;/CURUND  N                                            POWER NETWORK
ZATNZN?
' ?v "y'          .,B~~URUNDI    . 
(N..- )    _\ox;v  t    / ~   RWANDA
AnIANI'C\                           ~t2g                                      ~              uso
OCEAPrf
-, IA...                     !C'OAMIU r-     .                           .                        ..
ANGOLA    ;                   -.
v~~~~~~ZMI                  MO. AMB. .I                        taJ<  t 
A                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  r ~ *Chh   /31
WZztz~~~~~~                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \cfo - o  ODXt  ;
2.2MW               \~&    \                                                         Lor '  *
6  9P31  Grundo         Iro31A
zma                         ~~~~~RWANDA               MA#R                       
4\4~~        ~     ~~ b_\>-                                     @    /<,/    {
\j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 KW SD                                       Kcber,o*/   TANZANIA
to Atw  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toy&Ar
^$a''~~~ ~ ~~~~~ >                                    Susyz                                 Nykoi '      ti
q) )7uwc *i24t
F ~~~,                          UO e
L>AY  'C 3    *     X       851*fEb2 2 W
j.f                                                                  \,   t.X   I~~~~~~~



