Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20215-BI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
April 7,2000
Energy Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
Annual Average Exchange Rate
YEAR    US$1.00 = FBu.
1991           175
1994           253
1995           250
1996           303
1997           352
1998           447
1999           570
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Gwh gigawatt hour               = I million kilowatt hours
Kgoe kilos of oil equivalent    = 10,500 kilocalories
Kv kilovolt                     = 1,000 volts
Kw kilowatt                     = 1,000 watts
Kva kilovolt ampere             = 1,000 volt ampere
Kwh kilowatt hour               = 1,000 watts hour
Mw megawatt                     = 1,000 kilowatt
Mwh megawatt hour               = 1,000 kilowatt hour
Toe ton of oil equivalent       = 10,500,000 kilocalories
Ton metric ton                  = 1. I US tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRB                             Banque de la Republique du Burundi
BRARUDI                         Brasseries et Limonaderies du Burundi
CEBEA                           Centre Burundais des Energies Altematives
CFD                             Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CIDA                            Canadian Intemational Development Agency
DF                              Direction des Forets
DGC                             Direction Generale du Commerce
DGE                             Direction Gendra1e de l'Energie
DGHER                           Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique et des Energies Rurales
EDFI                            Electricite de France Intemational
EGL                             Energie des Pays des Grands Lacs
ESMAP                           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FY                              Fiscal Year
FAA                             Fiduciaire Audit Afrique
GTZ                             Deutshe Gesellschaft fur technische Zusamnmenar beit
IDF                             Institutional Development Fund
KFW                             Kreditanstalt fur Wiedereufbeu
MDRA                            Ministere du Ddveloppement Rural et de I'Artisanat
MEM                             Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines
OBK                             Organisation pour le Developpement du Bassin de la Kagera
ONATOUR                         Office National de la Tourbe
PIU                             Project Implementation Unit
PMU                             Project management Unit
PSE                             Programme Special Energie
REGIDESO                        Regie de Production et de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricit6
SAR                             Staff Appraisal Report
SAL                             Structural Adjustment Loan
SCEP                            Service charge des Entreprises Publiques
SEP                             Societe d'Entreposage de Petrole
SINELAC                         Societe intemationale d'electricite des Pays des Grands lacs
SNEL                            Societe Nationale d'electricite de la Republique Democratique du
Congo
UNDP                            United Nations Development Program
VERRUNDI                        Verrerie du Burundi
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1- December 31
Vice President  Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director Mr. Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager  Mr. Mark Tomlinson
Task Team Leader  Mr. Michel Layec
Resident Representative  Mr. Mathurin Gbetibouo



REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY .............................................I
PARTI: IMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT .............................................I
A. INTRODUCTION .I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .I
C.  IMPLEMENTATION AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                .         4
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                     .6
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                         .7
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK                                          .9
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER                                         .9
H. PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT .10
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS .10
J. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED .11
PART  : STATISTICAL ANNEXES .............................................                          13
TABLE I:  SUMMARYOFASSESSMENTS .................................................                 13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .................................................. 15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ................................................. 15
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS ................................................. 16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................  16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ................................................. 16
TABLE 7A: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ................................................. 17
TABLE 7B: TRAINING PROGRAM ................................................. 18
TABLE 7C: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ................................................... 19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST ................................................. 20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ................................................. 20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ................................................. 20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ................................................. 21
TABLE I1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT ................................................. 28
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFFINPUS .................................................I          28
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ................................................. 29
PARTIII: AIDEMEMOIRE ............................................                                  30
PARTIV: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .........................                   ................... 32
1. INTRODUCTION .32
2. OBJECTIFS ET DESCRIPTION DU PROJET .33
3. ORGANISATION ET COORDINATION DU PROJET .33
4. FINANCEMENT DU PROJET .34
5. RESULTATS .34
6.  DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES ET INSUFFISANCES .43
PART V: AUDITORS REPORT .......................                                                    44
APPENDIX ......................                                                                     50
IBRD 22083RI ......................                                                                 51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy
Sector Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of Burundi for which an IDA credit
in the amount of SDR 16.3 million (US$22.8 million equivalent) was approved on
April 25, 1991 and became effective on October 30, 1991. A Project Agreement
between IDA and the National Power Company "Regie de Production et de
Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite" (REGIDESO) was signed on June 4, 1991.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998.  Total disbursement
amounted to SDR 15.4 million (US$21.5 million) and the last disbursement was
on June 15, 1999 at which time the cumulative balance of SDR 0.880 million
(US$1.1 million) was canceled. The Credit closing date was extended from June
31, 1996 to June 31, 1997; and then to June 31, 1998. The closing date for
categories: I-A, B, 2-B, 3-B and one item in 3-C were extended to December 31,
1998.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Rosemary M. Cubagee (Economist) and
reviewed by Michel Layec (Task Team Leader, Senior Energy Economist),
Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira (Operations Officer), Richard Senou (Sr. Financial
Analyst), Mark D. Tomlinson (Sector Manager, AFTG1), and Emmanuel Mbi
(Country Director). Preparation of the ICR began during a completion mission in
April 1999, followed up by a second mission in November 1999 and is based on
information in project files and discussions with Government officials and Bank
staff who participated in the formulation and/or implementation of the project.
The Borrower prepared its own evaluation of the project's execution and
achievements and made comments on the draft ICR. The evaluation is attached to
this report.



- - ----- ---



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
1.    Burundi is a small landlocked country of 27,820 km2 in Central Africa.
With a population of about 6.4 million (1997), growing at an annual rate of 2.9
percent, Burundi has the second highest population density in Africa (215 persons
per square kilometer). In 1991 when the project was launched, the estimated final
consumption of energy from all sources was 940,500 tons of oil equivalent (toe),
corresponding to 188 kilos of oil equivalent (kgoe) per capita. Wood and other
biomass meet about 94 percent of the country's needs, while petroleum products
account for 5 percent, and electricity 1 percent.  In 1991, the per capita
consumption of modem fuels (petroleum products and electricity) was only 12
kgoe, one of the lowest in Africa. The consumption of modem fuels grew at an
average annual rate of about 6 percent in the period 1980-88, considerably faster
than population and GDP growth rates.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to promote rational energy policies and to
strengthen the efficient management of energy resources through: (i) the
development of efficient institutions in the country's energy sector and the
improvement of the quality of public investments; (ii) increasing efficiency in the
use of energy resources through reforms in the pricing structure of electricity,
petroleum products and wood fuels; (iii) expansion of access of the country's
population to electricity; and (iv) reducing the negative environmental effects of
the use of energy through charcoal efficiency and improved stoves programs. The
project has two major components: Institutional reform; and investments in the
biomass and household energy and power subsectors.
3.    The Institution Building and Reform  component aimed at: (a)
institutional strengthening of the Directorate of Energy and the Directorate of



Water Resources and Rural Energy (US$0.8 million) to enable them to assume a
leadership role in planning, coordinating and controlling energy sector
developments and increase access to electricity in rural areas; (b) a rehabilitation
program for REGIDESO, including a management assistance partnership program
(MAPP) with a foreign operator, training and materials (US$5.1 million); (c)
carrying out pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for selected hydropower plants
and an update of the Power Sector Master Plan (US$3.6 million).
4.    The Biomass and Household Energy and Power component included: (a)
a charcoal efficiency program to disseminate improved techniques for production
of charcoal and to sensitize charcoalers to deforestation issues (US$0.7million);
(b) an improved charcoal stoves program to reduce charcoal and wood
consumption (US$0.4million); (c) a household energy survey and a feasibility
study of peat substitution (US$0.4 million); (d) a master plan for rural
electrification (US$0.3 million); (e) extensions of the electricity distribution
system and new connections in rural and urban areas (US$5.9 million); and (f)
improvements in the transmission system (US$3.26 million).
Project Implementation
5.    Project implementation was interfered by civil unrest, which began in
1993, and a regional trade embargo between July 1996 - January 1999. It was
further delayed by the suspension of IDA operations in the country from October
1996 to May 1997. Limited achievements are recorded under each of the project
components.
6.    With respect to the Institution Building and Reform component, the
achievements are: (i) effective separation of institutional responsibilities between
DGHER and REGIDESO for power sector management and investment; (ii)
approval of a financial restructuring package for REGIDESO (albeit not
implemented); (iii) staff training; (iv) completion of studies, including studies of
the long-run marginal cost of electricity and the refonn of the tariff structure; (v)
implementation of a comprehensive electricity tariff reform with adjustment of
tariff to the long-run marginal cost of electricity; and (vi) acquisition of
equipment for REGIDESO.  Over 104 energy staff received training in
administrative and technical management.  Feasibility studies were also
conducted for the expansion of the electricity system.  Office equipment,
including a billing system and vehicles were also acquired. These have improved
the operations in the electricity and water sectors of Burundi. Although attempts
to improve sector efficiency, through the implementation of a MAPP with a
foreign operator - Hydro-Quebec International (HQI/CRC SOGEMA), have been
mostly unsuccessful, these efforts have however supported the forging of a
national consensus about the benefits of private sector participation in the
electricity and water sectors and about privatization over the medium-term.
Furthermore, these efforts have resulted in the development and approval, at the



iii
end of 1999, by the Cabinet of a new regulatory framework for the electricity and
water sectors, including electricity and water laws. The project has therefore laid
down the basis for the implementation of the electricity and water sector reforms
supported by the Water Project (Cr. 2288-BU) and the recently approved IDF
grant for Energy sector reforrn.
7.    Under the biomass and household energy and power component, the
achievements are: (i) a feasibility study on the use of peat in the secondary
industries; (ii) the design of energy efficient stoves; (iii) the construction of about
50 Km of medium and/or low voltage power lines in rural areas; (iv) the
rehabilitation and civil works of the Nyabikere micro hydro plant; and (v) the
electrification of some households in the rural areas. A number of Power
subsector-related planned activities were dropped; instead the credit resources
were used to restore emergency power needs in the country after the civil unrest.
Project Sustainability
8.    Project sustainability is uncertain. The sustainability of the energy
improved stoves is likely. However, this depends on how the local artisans are
encouraged to build more of the stoves and the willingness of the people to use
them. For the rural homes that have been electrified, the construction of power
lines, rehabilitation, and civil works, the likelihood that they would be sustained
depends on the households' ability to pay the electricity tariffs and the sector
ability to supply electricity. The modest achievement on sector reforms could be
sustained, provided the Government maintains its commitment to complete the
ongoing sector reform, which would allow to reverse the deteriorating trends and
establish a sounder basis for the provision of quality service in the energy and
water sectors.
Project Outcome
9.    Project outcome is marginally satisfactory. Many of the issues that were
raised in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) which led to the launching of the
project still persist within the electricity and water sectors. REGIDESO still has
problems with staffing and personnel, accounting, management and assets
revaluation. However, as indicated above (see para.6), the sustained dialogue in
the sector through this project has laid down the basis for pursuing and hopefully
completing sector reforms, including the approval of a regulatory framework for
the electricity and water sectors (this has been approved by the Cabinet in
February 2000 and will be discussed in Parliament in its April session) and a
privatization strategy for REGIDESO. On the rural electrification component, the
Rural Department of Water and Energy's (DGHER's) operations have not
improved. Regarding the improved stoves program by the National Office of
Stoves (ONATOUR) to help reduce negative environmental effects, the
deforestation problems still persist in the country.



iv
Key Lessons Learned
10.   The key lessons learned from implementing this project are as follows:
* Two lessons were noted in the following reports on Burundi:
Program Performance Audit Report on SAL I and II (CR1 593-BU,
CR1919-BU); and the ICR on SAC III (CR 2376-BU): (1) the
Bank was far too optimistic about the speed at which change could
take place in the Burundi environment; and (2) recent evidence has
shown that the designation of an entity outside the government (a
private sector organization or merchant bank, for example) to
implement the privatization program could help ensure greater
commitment to the goal, more objective decision-making based on
sound economic principles, and efficient implementation. The
above lessons are very much true for this project as well.
* Some of the delays encountered during implementation might have
been avoided had the Bank, at appraisal, waited until it reached
satisfactory agreement with the Government on several keys issues
raised in the previous project (CR1593-BU). Admittedly, this
would have delayed the launching of the project, but on balance it
probably could have improved the chances of leading to a
satisfactory outcome.  If this had not proved possible, an
alternative might have been to design a less ambitious project,
more in line with what the Government at the time considered that
it could implement, even if this had resulted in a more modest
resource transfer to the sector.
i A  Perforinance Contract between the Government and a
Govemment-owned power utility (REGIDESO) may not be an
effective mechanism for improving in a sustainable manner the
operational and financial performance of the sectors or the utility.
The implementation of a management assistance partnership with a
foreign operator, foreseen as innovative under the SAR, has also
proved to be relatively ineffective. It may be more appropriate to
concentrate efforts on reducing the role and monopoly status of the
public utility and correspondingly on increasing the participation
of the private sector.
* In transition countries and those with a volatile environment such
as Burundi and other post-conflicts countries, special attention
should be given to country-related risks, particularly political risks
as they may jeopardize the achievement of project objectives and
implementation. In this case, it is clear that the outbreak of civil



v
unrest as well as IDA's suspension of the project (due to insecurity
in the country) affected project implementation and achievement of
its development objectives. Although the SAR included a risk
assessment, country-related risks were not properly analyzed. To
ensure the achievement of its objectives, project design and
appraisal should include a realistic assessment of the country-
related risks and a related mitigation plan.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Burundi is a small landlocked country of 27,820 km2 in Central Africa.
With a population of about 6.4 million (1997) growing at an annual rate of 2.9
percent, Burundi has the second highest population density in Africa (215 persons
per square kilometer). Despite the demographic pressure on an already
constrained land, urban migration had been limited and only 6 percent of the total
population is urban. After the capital, Bujumbura, with some 270,000 inhabitants,
the next four towns have only between 10,000 and 20,000 inhabitants. In 1991
during the preparation of the project, the estimated final consumption of energy
from all sources was 940,500 tons of oil equivalent (toe), corresponding to 188
kilos of oil equivalent (kgoe) per capita. Wood and other biomass meet almost 94
percent of the country's needs, while petroleum products account for 5 percent,
and electricity 1 percent. The per capita consumption of modem fuels (petroleum
products and electricity) was only 12 kgoe, one of the lowest in Africa, and
reflects the low income and urbanization levels, the dominance of subsistence
agriculture in the economy and the small size of the industrial sector. From 1980
to 1988, the consumption of modem fuels grew at an average annual rate of about
6, considerably faster than population and GDP growth rates. During this same
period, the consumption of petroleum products increased by about 5 percent per
annum and that of electricity at about 11 percent per annum. Households, which
include small-scale commercial and artisanal activities, account for 92 percent of
total energy consumption (see Appendix for current energy balance).
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The project objectives were to promote rational energy policies and to
strengthen the efficient management of energy resources through: (i) the
development of efficient institutions in the country's energy sector and the






2
improvement of the quality of public investments; (ii) increasing efficiency in the
use of energy resources through reforms in the pricing structure of electricity,
petroleum products and wood fuels; (iii) expansion of access of the country's
population to electricity; and (iv) reducing the negative environmental effects of
the use of energy through charcoal efficiency and improved stoves programs. The
main features of the project are summarized below.
3.    Energy Sector Institution Building.  This component included: (i)
implementation of a rehabilitation program for REGIDESO that comprised a
management assistance partnership program with a foreign operator, a
restructuring of the financial base of the enterprise, the construction of limited
new facilities to improve operations and training for its personnel; (ii) carrying
out of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for hydroelectric power projects and
updating a master plan for investments in the power sector; (iii) institutional
strengthening of DGE in the Ministry of Energy and Mines to enable it to assume
a leadership role in planning, coordinating and controlling of energy sector
developments; (iv) institutional strengthening of the DGHER of the Ministry of
Rural Development so that increased access to electricity in rural areas be
achieved efficiently; (v) implementation of pricing policies reflecting the
economic cost of supply in electricity, petroleum and woodfuels; and (vi)
coordination and monitoring of the public investment program in the energy
sector. During implementation, this component was modified to include
institutional and management reform of REGIDESO.
4.    Biomass and Household Energy. The Biomass and Household Energy
sub-component was to implement : (i) a charcoal efficiency program to
disseminate improved techniques for production of charcoal and to sensitize
charcoalers to deforestation issues; (ii) an improved charcoal stoves program to
reduce charcoal and wood consumption; (iii) a survey on household energy
consumption; and (iv) a feasibility study of peat substitution in secondary
industries to determine the viability of increasing use of peat.
5.    Rural Electrification. This sub-component was for: (i) the development
of a rural electrification Master Plan to evaluate potential projects in rural areas;
and (ii) execution of some economically justified extensions of the distribution
network in rural areas.
6.    Power Subsector. This sub-component aimed at: (i) doubling the 110 kV
transmission line from Bubanza to Bujumbura and extension of associated
substations; and (ii) installing of new connections and extension of distribution
networks in urban areas. However, in July 1997, during implementation, the
doubling of the 110 kV transmission line was dropped, due to a drop in power
generation (from 37MW in 1991 to only 3 MW in 1995). The Government and
IDA decided to rehabilitate the whole power system instead.



3
7.    The Credit Agreement for the project was amended three times.
* On May 11, 1992, the Government requested the establishment of a
Special Account in order to facilitate disbursements of Parts A (3) and B
of the Project regarding institutional reinforcement, biomass and
household energy. This was approved by the Bank on June 26, 1992;
. In November 1994, the Government requested an increase in the
percentages of expenditures to be financed by the Credit. IDA approved
the increase in November 1994; and
* On April 4, 1996, due to the difficult transition period facing the country
after the civil unrest, the Government requested an increase in the
percentages of expenditures to be financed by the Credit. IDA approved
the increase on April 26, 1996 for one year.
In addition, on November 12, 1993, Canada also amended its Grant Agreement;
the Canadian Grant Agreement was increased from CDN $2 million to CDN
$3.85 million. On November 15, 1994, the Government of Japan also signed a
grant agreement in the amount of Yen 27.8 million to finance the cost of: (i)
carrying out Technical Assistance on electric utility management; and (ii) electric
sector planning (see Table 10).
Evaluation of Project Objectives
8.    The project objectives were sound, appropriate and in line with the country
sector strategy and IDA country sector policy. When the project was designed in
1990, the Government objectives for the energy sector were to: (i) develop and
rationally manage the national energy resources; (ii) provide adequate energy for
the development of rural areas; (iii) provide low-cost energy for industry and
craftsmanship; (iv) maintain the existing energy infrastructure and make it
profitable; and (v) reduce foreign energy dependence, particularly on imported
petroleum products. In order to implement these objectives, the Governrment plan
was to strengthen the Directorate of Energy (DGE) in the areas of planning,
coordination and control, to promote the connection of the most important rural
centers to the electric grid, to reinforce training of charcoalers in more efficient
techniques, to extend and improve charcoal stoves program and to review pricing
policies for electricity, wood and charcoal.
9.    The above objectives were also in line with IDA's strategy for the energy
sector at that time. The Joint IJNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program had
sponsored a study on energy sector assessment on Burundi in 1990. The energy
assessment recommendations called for: (i) strengthening of the DGE to prepare
and implement procedures and criteria for energy planning, including on household
energy matters; (ii) acceleration of the implementation of the reform plan for
REGIDESO; (iii) revitalization of a much-needed improved charcoal stoves and



4
carbonization program; (iv) execution of a national household energy survey; (v)
design of a strategy for the management of wood resources; (vi) elaboration of a
comprehensive rural electrification master plan; and (vii) preparation of a limited
number of feasibility studies for the development of specific hydroelectric sites.
The UNDP report also concluded that appropriate energy pricing reflecting the
economic cost of supply is the most important instrument for effective demand
management and recommended a review of the level and structure of prices,
taxation of petroleum products, wood, charcoal and electricity.
10.   IDA's country sector policy in general had remained the same. In the mid-
1 990s, IDA found the need to retune its policy towards privatization and
deregulation, particularly in the power subsector. As such, the project team and
the Government of Burundi (GOB) restructured the project objectives towards
institutional and management reform of the power sector with a long-term strategy
of privatizing REGIDESO.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT
OBJECTIVES
11.   Project implementation was interfered by civil unrest, which began in
1993 and continued intermittently over the coming years and a regional trade
embargo between July 1996 and January 1999. It was further delayed by IDA
suspension of its operations in the country from October 1996 to May 1997. On
June 20, 1997, IDA lifted the suspension. On the whole, partial achievements are
recorded on each of the project components.
12.  Institution Building. The major achievements under this component are:
(i) effective separation of institutional responsibilities between DGHER and
REGIDESO for sector management; (ii) approval of a financial restructuring
package for REGIDESO (although not implemented); (iii) staff training; (iv)
studies, including tariff studies; (v) revision of electricity tariff, and (vi)
acquisition of equipment. Over 104 energy staff (60 REGIDESO, 10 DGEE 9
DGHER, and 25 from DF and ONATOUR) have received training in
administrative and technical management (see Table 7B). The project also
sponsored several seminars on institutional reform, management, energy and the
environmnent. As a result of the training and seminars, capacity has improved.
Feasibility studies were also conducted to expand the electricity system (see Table
7). In addition, office equipment, such as computers, printers, scanners and
vehicles, were acquired. These equipment and vehicles have improved mobility
within the sector. Also due to the computers, REGIDESO is now equipped with a
Management Information System (MIS). The MIS, however, is only used by
REGIDESO's commercial department for billing and meter reading. The system
needs to be audited and upgraded in order to serve the entire power subsector.
Although REGIDESO's inefficiency remained and attempts to improve the
overall sector efficiency have been unsuccessful, the sustained dialogue for sector
reform through this project have led to the forging of a consensus about private



5
sector participation and the development of REGIDESO's privatization strategy
and of an enabling regulatory framework for private sector participation. This has
laid down the basis for completing the sector reform. If pursued, this sector
reform would reverse the deteriorating trends and establish a sounder basis for the
provision of quality service in the energy and water sectors.
13.    Biomass and Household energy. Under this component a feasibility
study to determine the viability of, and to increase the use of, peat in secondary
industries was carried out as envisioned. The study revealed that although peat
could be used in some industries, it is by and large uneconomical (see Table 7A).
The charcoal efficiency and improved stove programs were initially carried out
during the early part of project implementation. However, due to the civil unrest
the operations were terminated. There is some evidence in the market that the
local artisans have adopted some of the stove efficiency technologies introduced
during that short period of implementation. As such, they have designed some
new cooking stoves. The new cooking stoves are in use in a few households.
However, the number of households using these new stoves is so small that its
impact on the use of charcoal and its efficiency cannot be measured at this point.
14.   Rural Electrification.  Under this component, the following medium
and/or low voltage power lines were constructed: (a) Kirundo-Ntega (13 Km);
(b) Kiryama-Rvumvu-Rumeza (17.3 Kmn); (c) Busebwa-Mugara (6.50 Km); and
(d) Gatara-Musema (14.50 Km). A transmission line was also constructed
between Buhiga to Bugenyuzi but was destroyed during the civil unrest.
Extension works were also done on: (a) Maramvya; (b) Gisyo; (c) Butwe; and (d)
Buraniro-Burarana-Matongo. Rehabilitation and civil works were also done on
Kigwena, Butezi, Murore, Ryarusera and the Nyabikere micro hydro plant.
15.   A number of households have also been electrified in the rural areas.
However, the households that have access to electricity from the project cannot be
determined at this point, due to insecurity problems in the rural areas. The
number of households in the rural areas with access to electricity is less now
compared to when the project was laurnched. This is due mainly to desertion of
homes and sabotage of transmission lines during the civil unrest.  Many
inhabitants fled their homes in rural areas to the capital city (Bujumbura) to
escape the civil unrest.
16.   Power Subsector.  As stated above (para. 6), the original credit amount
under this component was used to restore emergency power needs in the country
after the civil unrest. The power system was vandalized during the civil unrest and
REGIDESO production capacity dropped from 37 MW to less than 3 MW in
1995. Under the project, the power system was restored to about 27 MW.



6
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.    The major risks identified during the preparation of the project were:
political and economic risks. The national and regional political situation remains
fragile. These risks in addition to: (i) Government slowness in processing
procurement; (ii) trade embargo; (iii) sabotage of transmission lines in areas
affected by armed conflicts; (iv) insecurity; (v) diversion of Government attention
due to the conflict; (vi) lack of coordination within the implementation agencies;
(vii) lack of capacity; and (viii) IDA suspension of its operations in the country,
affected project progress.
18.   Factors Controllable by the Borrower. Factors that the Borrower could
have controlled were: slowness in procurement, bids, contract award, negotiation
and procurement of equipment. The Government was somewhat negligent in
procurement, bids and contract award.
19.   The project was first affected by slowness on the part of the Government
in processing procurement, bids, contract award, negotiation and procuring of
equipment. It was setback by the political unrest and trade embargo. The
political tunnoil also forced most of the firms to whom contracts were awarded
for materials for maintenance and the extension of the power lines to delay
delivery of the goods and, thus, to increase prices. Project implementation was
also affected by sabotage of the transmission lines. Most of the rehabilitated
works during the first phase of project implementation were lost during the armed
conflicts.
20.   The project also suffered from lack of coordination, particularly in the
power sub-sector sub-component due to frequent turnover in REGIDESO's top
management and project management. As stated in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), REGIDESO had a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Government. It was to carry out parts A. 1, A.2 and D of the project. REGIDESO
seemed to have used this arrangement to claim autonomy from the rest of the
implementation agencies and the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). As such,
it implemented its part of the project with a limited coordination with the other
implementing agencies.
21.   The project was also affected by diversion of Government attention. It
seems the Govermnent lost focus in the project immediately after signing due to
the upcoming political season. Basically, compliance with every section of the
legal covenants was delayed. Although the task of overall coordination of the
project was assigned to a senior staff, the day to day operation of the project was
assigned to a mid-level staff who had no previous experience in managing such a
large project. The staff was overwhelmed with too many tasks of coordinating all
the various activities of the implementing agencies. This resulted in delays in
procurements and contracting.



7
22.   Factors not Controllable by the Borrower. Factors uncontrollable by the
Borrower were the civil unrest, the sabotage and IDA suspension. The civil
unrest affected the project most. The Government could not have foreseen this in
relation to the project. However, appropriate action could have been taken had
more in-depth assessment of the political risk been carried out at the country level.
The project was also affected by IDA's suspension of the credit from October
1996 to May 1997. During the suspension, project supervision terminated as well.
23.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control. Factors that could
be controlled by the implementing agencies were: (i) management in the MEM of
the project; (ii) coordination within the various implementing agencies; and (iii)
definition of tasks particularly in the power sub-sector. The performance of MEM
and the various implementing agencies was unsatisfactory, particularly during the
civil unrest and IDA suspension. The MEM failed to advise the Government to
close the project immediately at the start of the civil unrest. The MEM also failed
to notice the lack of coordination within the various implementing agencies, the
limited capacity within the Ministry to manage the project, and contract awards,
and to take quick corrective actions.
24.  In addition to the above, REGIDESO had a serious management problem
in executing its part of the project. There was a lack of coordination between the
administration and the technical departments. The financial statements were
never up-to-date during project implementation, accounts were improperly
recorded and there was no inventory control on spare parts during project
implementation due also to lack of capacity.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Project sustainability is uncertain. As stated above (para. 11), partial
achievements are recorded under each of the project components.
26.   With respect to the Institution Building component, the sustainability of
staff training is unlikely. Although the training has improved capacity within the
sector, the majority of middle level managers trained in areas, such as computer
technology, have since left for the private sector. For the feasibility studies, there
is no evidence that REGIDESO has the managerial, technical, and financial
capability to implement the study results. For the office equipment and the
vehicles, although they have provided mobility in the sector for the time being,
the long run impact depends on the sector's financial ability to replace them. This
can only be achieved by a total overhaul of the management of the sector. The
modest achievement on sectors reform will be sustained, provided the
Governnent maintains its commitment to complete the ongoing sector reform,
which would allow to reverse the deteriorating trends and establish a sounder
basis for the provision of quality service in the energy and water sectors.



8
27.   On the Biomass and household energy and power component, the
sustainability of the improved stoves could be likely as a few households are
using the new stoves. However, without further publicity to encourage the local
artisans to build more of the new stoves and the locals to use them, this new
technology could die out. For the Rural Electrification component, the likelihood
that the homes that have been electrified would continue to use electricity, and the
power subsector would continue to supply electricity, depends on the households'
ability to pay the electricity tariffs, and the ability of the sector to supply
electricity.
28.  In summary, the achievements (Section C) under the project fall far too
short of the expected outcome for sustainability to be ascertained with certainty.
On the whole, the following were not implemented as planned:
1. Institutional Building:  (a) Rehabilitation of REGIDESO  and
implementation of a restructuring of its financial base (even though the related-
package for REGIDESO was prepared and approved); (b) updating of the master
plan for investment in the power subsector; (c) strengthening of DGE; and (d)
DGHEER. However, in spite of unsuccessful implementation of this component,
the sustained dialogue for sector reform through this project have led to the
forging of a consensus about private sector participation and the development of
REGIDESO's privatization strategy and an enabling regulatory framework for
private sector participation. This has laid down the basis for completing the
sector reform and if pursued, the sector reform would reverse the deteriorating
trends and establish a sounder basis for the provision of quality service in the
energy and water sectors. In addition, thanks to the project, there was a clear
separation in institutional responsibilities between DGHEER and REGIDESO for
power sector management and investment: DGHEER will concentrate on rural
areas while REGIDESO was responsible of the urban side of the sector.
2. Biomass and Household energy: (a) Household survey on energy
consumption; and (b) charcoal efficiency program to disseminate improved
techniques for production of charcoal and to sensitize charcoalers to deforestation
issues.
3. Rural Electriflcation: rural electrification Master Plan.
4. Power Subsector: (a) doubling of 1 10 kV transmission line from
Bubanza to Bujumbura; (b) extension of associated substations; and (c)
installation of new connections and extension of distribution networks in urban
areas.
29.   Project costs andfinancing. The total project cost estimated at appraisal
was US$32.2 million of which: IDA would contribute US$22.8 million;
Government: US$5.6 million and REGIDESO: US$3.6 million.  During
implementation, CIDA contributed CD$3.8 million grant to the project. JPGA



9
also contributed Yen 27.8 million grant to the project. At the close of the project,
the total project cost was US$26.3 million of which IDA contribution was
US$21.5 million; CIDA CD$3.7 million (US$2.8); JPGA Yen 27.8 million; and
Government US$2 million. 46 percent of actual project cost was spent on
equipment purchases; 44 percent on training and consulting services; and 10
percent on civil works.
F.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
30.   Project design. IDA perforrnance in project identification and design is
satisfactory. This project was a continuation of the previous project in the sector,
the Transmission and Distribution Project (Cr.1593-BU) and built on its
achievements while pursuing the non achieved aspects, particularly the
institutional reform of REGIDESO. According to the Project Completion Report
(PCR) on the Transmission and Distribution Project (Report No. 11495) dated
December 28, 1992, the institutional and financial objectives of the project,
particularly, REGIDESO were only partly achieved. Although the project
included substantial up-front measures agreed during negotiations, in particular to
mitigate the risk of failure of institutional reform, most of those measures
translated in compliance conditions of the DCA were not implemented and no
remedy was taken.
31.   Project Supervision. Project supervision was satisfactory prior the civil
unrest and IDA suspension, however it was marginally satisfactory during the
embargo and after IDA lifted its suspension. The lack of coordination between
the implementing agencies and strong leadership in the project management has
hampered the project supervision. While this could be a result of poor
coordination on the Government's part as mentioned above, IDA failed to advise
in a timely manner the Government to appoint a project coordinator outside the
MEM or the Government and to cancel the credit after the embargo.
32.   Also there were no mention in the supervision reports of: the study results
on the feasibility studies on the future of the hydro plants and the peat
substitution; the training programs (Category 1-A) and its impact; and the
Technical Assistants (Category 1-B), although these were the areas where the
project recorded most of its achievements. Over 45 percent of the credit was
spent on the above categories (see table 8A).
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
33.   The Borrower's performance in project identification and design is
satisfactory. Borrower perfornance on project implementation is unsatisfactory.
However, the civil unrest had much influence on this result. Despite delays
occurring due the Government's slowness in procurement, its performance on
procurement in terms of procedures, bids, contract award was relatively good. As



10
part of this ICR, a detailed procurement audit was also carried out. The audit
concluded that there was no procurement problem: all goods, works and services
procured for under this project were in compliance with IDA procurement
procedures.
H.   PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
34.   Project outcome is marginally satisfactory. Many of the issues that were
raised in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) which led to the launching of the
project still persist within the sector. REGIDESO still has problems with staffing
and personnel, accounting, management and assets revaluation. There is no
evidence that REGIDESO has made much improvement on any of the above at
the close of the project. Although REGIDESO's inefficiency remained and
attempts to improve the overall sector efficiency have been unsuccessful, the
sustained dialogue for sector reform through this project have led to the forging of
a consensus about private sector participation and the development of
REGIDESO's privatization strategy and of an enabling regulatory framework for
private sector participation. This has laid down the basis for completing the
sector reform and if pursued, the sector reform would reverse the deteriorating
trends and establish a sounder basis for the provision of quality service in the
energy and water sectors. In addition, thanks to the project, there was a separation
in institutional responsibilities between DGEER (rural areas) and REGIDESO
(urban areas) for project management and investment. On the rural electrification
component, DGHER operations have not improved.  On   ONATOUR,
deforestation problems still persist in the country (see Appendix).
i.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   With respect to future operations in the energy sector of Burundi, the
Government intends to: (i) reduce deforestation by improving charcoal production
efficiency; (ii) provide rural electrification by supporting cooperatives; and (iii)
build stand alone micro hydro plants. Regarding the institutional reform of
REGIDESO, several workshops and seminars have been held to inform the public
(para. 12) of the Government's intention to reform the power subsector. Part IV
(Borrower's Contribution) of this ICR report, and Government's comments on the
Aide Memoire have stated that the Government has done a series of preparatory
work, and intended to start implementation of the institutional reform of
REGIDESO starting May 1999. In February 2000, the Governrent approved the
new regulatory framework for the electricity and water sectors and forwarded it to
the Parliament for adoption. It is scheduled for Parliamentary discussions in its
April 2000 session. In addition, the Government is considering hiring external
advisors for the selection of a private operator/investor that will take a majority
interest in the operations of the electricity and water sectors of Burundi.
36.   With respect to IDA, future operations in the energy sector should be
linked to the Government's clear demonstration that it intends to carry out



11
institutional reforms. This should include electricity and water reforms, the
approval of new electricity and water laws, the signing of key implementation
decrees and a selection of private operators and investors that would carry out the
responsibilities currently done by REGIDESO. Regarding the biomass sector,
reforms need to be carried out, in particular the transfer of management of the
primary resources to the local communities and institutions and substitution to
LPG and kerosene. The production and commercialization of peat, currently
carried out by ONATOUR, need to be transferred to the private sector. Once
these critical reforms are implemented, IDA financing could be considered for
rehabilitation and extension of the energy infrastructure allowing for increased
access to commercial energies by urban and rural populations and environmental
protection.
J.    MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Based on the operation's experience of the project, the following
important lessons can be drawn:
38.   Lesson 1. Two lessons were noted in the following reports on Burundi:
Program Performance Audit Report SAL I and II (CR1593-BU, CR1919-BU);
and the ICR on SAC III (CR 2376-BU), (see Table 2):
(1) The Bank was far too optimistic about the speed at which change could
take place in the Burundi environment.
(2) Recent evidence has shown that the designation of an entity outside the
government (a private sector organization or merchant bank, for example) to
implement the privatization program could help ensure greater commitment to the
goal, more objective decision-making based on sound economic principles, and
efficient implementation.
The above lessons are very much true for this project as well.
39.   Lesson 2. Some of the delays encountered during implementation might
have been avoided had the Bank, at appraisal, waited until it reached satisfactory
agreement with the Government on several key issues raised in the previous
project (CRI 593-BU) (para.30.) Admittedly, this would have delayed the
launching of the project, but on balance it probably could have led to a
satisfactory outcome. If this had not proved possible, an alternative might have
been to design a less ambitious project, more in line with what the Government at
the time considered that it could implement, even if this had resulted in a more
modest resource transfer to the sector.
40.   Lesson 3. A Performance Contract between the Government and a
Government-owned power utility (REGIDESO) is not an effective mechanism for
improving the operational and financial performance of the sector or the utility.
Experience has shown that it is more appropriate to concentrate efforts on



12
reducing the role and monopoly status of the public utility and correspondingly
increasing the participation of the private sector.
41.   Lesson 4. In transition countries and those with a volatile environment
such as Burundi and other post-conflicts countries, special attention should given
to country-related risks, particularly political risks as they may jeopardize the
achievement of project objectives and implementation. In this case, it is clear that
the outbreak of civil unrest as well as IDA's suspension of the project (due to
insecurity in the country) affected project implementation and achievement of its
development objectives. Although the SAR included a risk assessment, country-
related risks were not properly analyzed. To ensure the achievement of its
objectives, project design and appraisal should include a realistic assessment of
the country-related risks and a related mitigation plan.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
(/)     (/)              (/)~~~~0          (s/)
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                C3               I                                  IZ0
Institutional Development           E                D               II                 I
Physical Objectives                                                   E Cl               OI
Poverty Reduction                   []              []
Gender Issues                       LI                 l              LI                IX
Other Social Objectives              al              a                Cl
Environmental Objectives              ]              0               [                  [
Public Sector Management            E                0                I3                 E
Private Sector Development           D                ]                3                [
Other (specify)                       ]                               E                 [ ]
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       D/)                       (v')
ElE



14
Higl
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (v')                      (/)
Identification                      E                       El
Preparation Assistance                                      I7                         LI
Appraisal                                                                              [] 
Supervision                                                                            III
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(V)            (1)              (1)
Preparation                                                                  iii
Implementation                                               L               I E
Covenant Compliance                          El                              E
Operation (if applicable)                    LI              LI
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory Marginally SatisfactoryUnsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Li                               (/



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Preceding Operations
Transmission and         To augment and improve the reliability of supply of    April 19,1985   Completed
Distribution Project     electricity to the capital city, Bujumbura, and it's
CR1593-BU                surrounding areas.           .
First Structural Adjustment To redirect the Burundian economy towards a   May 22, 1996   Completed
Credits (CR 1705 -BU)    development path, which will reduce dependence on
coffee and lay the basis for sustained growth in the
medium-term, with more reliance on market forces
and a more outward orientation.
Second Structural        To accelerate economic growth and increase per capita  June 14, 1988   Completed
Adjustment Credit (CR 1919 income and consumption levels, by reorienting the
- BU)                  economy towards a path with more reliance on market
forces and a greater outward orientation
Following Operations
Third Structural Adjustment To strengthen the supply response of Burundi's  June 4, 1992    Completed
Credit (CR 2376-BU)      economy to the adjustment process. It main objectives
were to advance policy reform in three key areas:
public sector efficiency; private sector development
and social sector reform
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
|Identification                             April 1989
rPreparation     -~-    -NIA                                           N/A
Pre-appraisal                               NIA                        NIAl
Appraisal                                                              June 18, 1990
Negotiations                                January 1991               January 14, 1991
Board Presentation                          N/A                        April 25, 1991
Signing                                     N/A                        June 4, 1991
Effectiveness                               June 30, 1991              October 30, 1991
Project Completion                          June 30, 1996              December 31, 1998
Credit Closing                                                         December 31, 1998



16
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate             0.6      7.7      8.6      4.5       1.4        0        0        0         0
Cumulative                     0.6      8.3     16.9    21.4       22.8        0        0        0         0
Actual - Annual                  0      0.5       1.3     2.6       0.9      1.5      1.9       2.7      3.7
Actual -  Cumulative             0      0.5      1.8      4.4       5.3      6.8      8.7      11.4     15.1
Actual as % of Estimate        9%       7%      15%      57%      66%      148%     190%    268%    374%
Date of Final disbursement                                                                 June 15, 1999
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
lKey indicators for project impeetainws /i/                                        NIA       l
not given in project design. See Table IO.  __ .
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Estimated     Estimated      Estimated          Actual
1988          1990           1995
Current Ratio                                     1.06         I1.19           1.69            N/A
Rate of return on net fixed assets              -12.32%/        0.93           11.27           N/A
Debt service coverage                            -1.37          .7             2.27            N/A
Debt as a %  of debt/equity                     -12.59          0.32           0.46            N/A
Receivables (months)                              13            NiA            N/A             N/A



17
TABLE 7A: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
lInstitutional Study
|A. Pre-feasibility                                  N/A        November 95       Completed     The study revealed that only
l studies: on Kabu   To select the least-cost                                                 Kabu 16 is economically      l
l 16, Kabu 23,      alternative for the future                                                viable.l
Rushiha,         expansion of the electric
Masango          system.
Feasibility study on
the two above projects  To determine the economic
viability of Kabu 16           N/A            N/A              N/A                    N/A
B. A detailed study   (i) Relation among           6/30/92         N/A              Not         The study was done,
on Energy        charcoalers, wood-owners,                                  implemented   implementation started but was
Efficiency and    transporters, wholesalers and                                            terminated due to insecurity in
Wood resources   retailer; (ii) The organization                                           the implementation areas during
and improved     of training and demonstration                                             the civil unrest.
carbonization    sessions of improved charcoal
techniques,      producing techniques; (iii)
charcoal and     The creation of an association
wood pricing     of professional charcoalers;
(iv) A sensitization campaign
on deforestation problems and
solutions.
Studies and recomnmendation
to improve the charcoal/wood
pricing structure
C. Peat substitution   To examine the technical,    N/A         November 94      Completed      This study revealed that peat can
financial and economic                                                    be substituted for some
feasibility of converting the                                             industries, however, the
boilers of some selected                                                  investment costs are too high.
secondary industries to pest,
procure and test one peat
boiler system and determine
the viable market for peat in
the industrial sector.
D. Feasibility study   For the future expansion of   N/A            N/A          Completed                  N/A
on future of    the electric system.
hydro plants                                                                                               _            l
E. Identification of   To improve management of      N/A            N/A        Not done        Not done
private          power sub-sector
companies to
undertake
management
currently carried
out by
REGIDESO'S
Force Accounts



18
TABLE 7B: TRAINING PROGRAM
International Training
WANG training                              N/A                 June 15, '92     June 20, '922                                 Completed
Accounting and Financial Management        DGEE/               November '97,    Dec. '97       Maurice            2           Completed
REGIDESO
Seminar on Privatization of Energy Sector &                    October '97,     Nov. '97       Canada             I          Completed
related problems
Library Training in technical and documentation   DGEE         October '97       Nov. '97      Cameroon           2           Completed
Training in Accounting & Procurement       REGIDESO            October.' 97     Nov. 97        Cote d'lvoire      4          Completed
Mission on Management & Rural Electrification   DGHER          December 20 '97   Dec. 31,'97   Cote d'lvoire      2          Completed
Training in Operational Management & Project    DGHER          N/A                             France/La          I           Completed
Audit                                                                                          Rochel le
Training in Intemational Marketing & National    DGEE          February 2, '98    Feb. 27, '98    Grenoble-lEPE   2           Completed
Energy Policies
Seminar on Institutional Changes & Management  REGIDESO        March 9, '98     March 27, '98   Grenoble-IEPE     2           Completed
of Electrical Industries
Training in Energy Planning                DGEE/ REGIDESO   March 2, '98        March 18,'98   CanadatHEC         4           Completed
Training in Strategic Management in the Energy   DGEE          April 20, '98    May 19, '98    Canada/HEC         4           Completed
Sector
Elaboration Analysis in Management of Projects   DGEE/ REGIDESO   February 2, '98    Feb. 20, '98  Cote d'lvoire  4          Completed
Supplementary Training on power cuts and how    REGIDESO       April '98        May '98        ICM/Suisse         I          Completed
to manager peak demand
Seminar on Energy & Environment            DGEE                May 1, '98       May 30, '98    ChinalFrance       I          Completed
Study Tour on Information, Technical, Fund  DGHER/Min. of      May I, '98       May 30, '98    Cote d' Ivoire     2           Completed
Rising on Rural Electrification            Plan
Information Tours of SODECI                REGIDESO            February 1, '98    Feb. 16, '98  Cote d' Ivoire    2           Completed
Decentralization Management of Local       DGEE                May I1, '98      May 22, '98    Cote d' Ivoire     3          Completed
Communities?
Maintenance of Distribution Network        DGHER               January 12, '98    Jan. 23, '98  Cote d' Ivoire    3          Completed
Seminar on Accounting and Financial        REGIDESO            February I, '98    Feb. 28, '98  Maurice           I          Completed
Management
Seminar on Cost Accounting                 REGIDESO            February 1, '98    March 2, '98    Maurice         I          Completed
Study Tour Electrogaz and ESKOM            DG Directors        December '97     Jan. 98        Rwanda, South      5          Completed
Africa
Study Tour on Information gathering        DG Directors        N/A              N/A                               DG          Completed
Directors
Local Training                                                                                                               Completed
Seminar on Energy Development              DGEE/ REGIDESO   February 1, '98    Feb. 5, '98     Bujumbura          25         Completed
Seminar on Microsoft Project, Planning and  DGEE/ DGHER        April 1, '98     April 15, '98    Bujumbura        10         Completed
Management of Project Monitoring           REGIDESO                           I        _      I
Training on Strategic Management for Managers   REGIDESO       March 1, '98     March 28, '98   Bujumbura         30          Completed
Training on Accounting, drawing, Human     DGHER               March 1, '98     March 21 ' 98   Bujumbura         3          Completed
Resources and management of software             .        .                                                 .,,



19
TABLE 7C: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
iechnicalAssistant from      To assess the execution of the Contract Plan signed between the  11/1/90    12/31/98
SCEP/IDA's Local staff       Government and REGIDESO and make recommendation on future
action to be taken to achieve the established objectives; monitor and
evaluate the performance of the consultant (Hydro-Quebec
International) hired to assist REGIDESO in implementing its
rehabilitation program and make recommendations on measures to
improve the implementation of this program; assist in the
preparation of the proposal to be submitted to the Government for
the financial restructuring of REGIDESO; participate in the
discussions with the Government on the public investment program
in the energy sector; and review the audit reports of REGIDESO
and implementation of auditor's recommendations.
Technical Assistant from     To reduce technical and non-technical losses                  N/A           N/A
HQI/CRC & SOGEMA
A Japanese Technical         The Technical Assistance consists of *:                       N/A           N/A
Assistant
(a) a study of the institutional alternatives available to the Recipient
to divest itself of the management and operation of the electric and
water utility REGIDESO. Besides anticipating the financial and
administrative problems arising from the transition of management
and/or ownership to the private sector, the questions of regulation
and of planning will be dealt with.
(b) tariff studies, including an updating of earlier studies on the
subject; an estimate of the various categories of the costs incurred
by the utility, a comparison of generation costs; a suggestion of a
reasonable profit and incentive level for a possible private operator;
a determination of cost indicators and provisions for escalation as
needed. Review of the purchase and power interchange contracts
with Sinelac, SNEL, and Electrogaz.
( c ) Review of the expected benefits of the new Bubanza
Bujumbura transmission line in relation to the joint operation of the
hydro resources of the three countries of the Great Lakes area. The
study will determine which further installations or additions will be
needed to give Burundi the maximum benefit of the existing
resources.
(d) Preparatory activities, mission and investigations required to set
up and organize the major studies described above
(e) Review of the possible role of photovoltaic energy devices to
reduce rural electrification costs and to reach the maximum number
of users
A Japanese Technical         To improve the performance of DGHER, and in organizing the    N/A           N/A
Assistant                    commercial and financial aspect of rural electrification.
A Japanese Technical         To achieve operational and managerial efficiency in the new rural    N/A    N/A
Assistant                    electrification projects, and to improve DGHER operations, a
project manager will be named within the existing administrative
structure, and financial/accounting expert will be recruited and
financed under the project.
* Financed by a Japanese Grant of Yen 27.8 million



20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST
~~~~.                                 _
I - A   Consulting and Training                4.9
I-A            Consulting and Training                                           4.9
1-B            Consulting and Training                                           4.4
2-A             Civil Engineering - A. 1                                          0.0
2-B            Civil Engineering- Part C                                          0.4
2-C             Civil Engineering - Part D                                        1.1
3-A             Equipment, Materials Vehicles & fumiture                          1.0
3-B             Equipment, Materials Vehicles & furniture                         7.2
3-C             Equipment, Materials Vehicles & furniture                         1.4
Totals                                                                           20.4
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
|lIDA                          l    3.2          19.6        22.8    l     0.0         20.4         20.4
||Govemment                    |    4.6          1.0          5.6     |    .02          0.0          0.2
|| REGIDESO*                  |     3.8         0.0          3.8          0.0          0.0           0.0
ll CIDA                       l   0.0            3.8         3.8          0.0          3.7           3.7
Total                             11.6         24.4          36          0.02         24.1        24.34
At close of project Government and REGIDESO contribution amounted to 215,887.02 Fbu
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
1.     Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR). The IERR calculated at appraisal was 57.4
percent. At project completion, however, there were no reliable data to calculate the IERR.
2.     Long-Run Marginal cost of Electricity. The LRMC calculated at appraisal for
medium voltage were:
(i)     US$0.107/kwh (18.73FBu.kwh) for peak hours;
(ii)   US$0.036/kwh (FRu/6.30kwh) for off-peak hours.
For low-voltage the LRMC was
(i)     US$0.129./kwh (FBu22.57FBu/kwh)
At project completion, there were no reliable data to calculate the LRMC.



21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
.01        ~     ~~5   C          N/S                      (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the   No comments
objectives of the Project as set forth in schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and to this end:
(i) Shall carry out Parts A.3., B2 and B.3 of the
project through DGE, Parts A.4 and C of the
through DGE, and Part B.4 of the project through
ONATOUR, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
environmental and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such parts
of the project; and
5          C          N/S                      Without limitation or restriction upon any of its    No comments
other obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause REGIDESO to carry out Parts
At, A2 and D of the Project and to perform all the
obligations of REGIDESO set forth in the Project
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable REGIDESO to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
5    _    _. C    _    .           _            ..............____N/S  ._. The Borrower shall on-lend the portion of the Credit No comrments
withdrawn under Categories (2) (c) and (3) (b) in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this
Agreement to REGIDESO under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and REGIDESO, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which
shall include the following: (I) that the interest rate
to be charged to REGIDESO shall be 8.72%; (ii)
that the principal amount of the Credit on lent to
REGIDESO shall be repaid to the Borrower over a
period of twenty-five years including a five-year
grace period; and (iii) that the foreign exchange
risk shall be borne by the Borrower.



22
5          C           N/S                                                                No comments
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.02               5          NC           N/S                     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, In compliance
procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for Parts A.3, A.4,
B and C of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.03               5          CP           N/S                     The Borrower and the Association hereby agree In compliance
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition
respectively) in respect of Parts A. 1, A.2, and D
of the Project shall be carried out by
REGIDESO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
3.04(a)            5          CD           N/S                     The Borrower shall:                       In compliance, but
(a) for the purposes of carrying out the Project, with delays
establish in DGHER and ONATOUR and
thereafter maintain for the duration of the
Project, project implementation units with
staff, organization and functions
satisfactory to the association including a
Project manager in DGHER for purposes of
carrying out Parts B.I and C of the Project:
and
3.04(b)            5          CD           N/S                     (b) for the purposes of coordinating and  In compliance, but
supervising the execution of the Project,   with delays
establish in MEM and thereafter maintain
for the duration of the Project, a project
management unit with staff, organization
and functions satisfactory to the
Association, including a manager assisted
l___________ ____________                                              by competent staff in adequate numbers.
.05                5          CD           N/S                     The Borrower shall carry out a study of the  In compliance, but
availability and usage of wood resources under  with delays. The
terms of reference agreed upon the Association  study was
and, by June 30, 1992, furnish to the Association terminated due the
a report of scope and in detail acceptable to the  Civil unrest
Association of such study.
3.06               5          NC    (a) June 30,                   The Borrower shall:                        Lack of informal
1992,                    (a) by June 30, 1992 furnish to the Association a rules and
proposal satisfactory to the Association for the  understanding
delineation of responsibilities between DGHER
and REGIDESO in the electrification of rural
centers; and



23
3.06               5                 (b) December                                                            Lack of informal
31, 1992                  (b) by December 31, 1992, implement the   rules and
proposal referred to in the preceding paragraph. understanding
3.07               5                 (a) November 30               (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,  In compliance since
in each year                      from time to time and in any case not later the beginning of
than November 30 in each year during  the project
Project implementation, starting in 1991,
exchange views on the Borrower's public
investment program for its energy sector
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views as
specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall fumish to the
Association a draft three-year rolling public
investment and expenditure program for its
energy sector for the period commencing
on the following January I including a
statement of the technical and economic
justification for any new investment
exceeding $200,00 equivalent.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31 in each year furnish to the
Association a three year rolling public
investment and expenditure program for its
energy sector for the period commencing
the following January I satisfactory to the
Association
3.08               5          CD    November 30,   September/Octo Without limitation upon the provisions of  Delays
1992              ber 1993    Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower and the Association shall, not later
than November 30, 1992 jointly undertake a
mid-term review of the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project and the Borrower shall
implement the recommendations acceptable to
the Association of such joint mid-term review.
4.01               2          CD           N/S                     (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be Delays
maintained records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts A.3, A.4, B and C of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof and, without
prejudice to the foregoing, shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of
DGHER, including separate accounts for its
water operations and separate accounts for
its electricity operations.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
______________I_____________ I_____________ I_____    (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as



24
available, but in any case not latter
than six months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of report of
such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said records,
accounts and the audit thereof as the
association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
4.02                2           CD            N/S                      The Borrower shall charge the same tariffs for  Delays
electricity provided by DGHER in rural areas as
the Borrower shall approve for REGIDESO's
urban services and shall require all customers to
pay connection and consumption charges.
4.03                2           CD            N/S                      The Borrower shall not undertake any new rural
electrification project unless:
(a) the internal economic rate of return of such
project using a method of calculation
acceptable to the Association is at least
10%
(b) the projected revenues from such project
will cover all its operating and maintenance
expenses; and
(c) an adequate billing and collection system
has been designed and the Borrower has
undertaken to put such system in place
upon completion of the project.
4.04                2           CD    (a) December                     The Borrower shall:                          Delays
31, 1991,                  (a) base its tariff policy in the electricity sector
(b) November                        on the long-run marginal cost of electricity
30, 1992                        supply;
(b) by December 31, 1991 increase low voltage
electricity to a level acceptable to the
Association; and
(c) by November 30 in each year commencing
in 1992 review its electricity and water
tariffs with the Association.
4.05                2           CD    (a) September                    The Borrower shall:
30, 19991                  (a) by September 30, 19991 furnish to the
(b) December                        Association a financial restructuring plan
31, 1991                        for REGIDESO satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b) by December 31, 1991, implement the said
financial restructuring plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
4.06                2       NC               N/S                       The Borrower shall pay all invoices received    Not complied with
from REGIDESO in respect of water and       due to security
electricity services received from REGIDESO in reasons prevailing
respect of water and electricity services to the   in the country
Borrower" agencies within 60 day of receipt.



25
4.07                 2          NC    September 30,                     The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1991     Delays due to the
1991                            adopt, in a manner satisfactory to the       inability of
Association, a policy acceptable to the      cofinanciers: CFD,
Association for simplifying the structure of  KfW and IDA to
petroleum prices while maintaining the policy   agree on
referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement methodology.
for establish automatic adjustments in such
prices.
Amendment of the DCA to include Special Account
2.02C                1          CP                                      The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
project, open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payment out of the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4, to this Agreement.
Japanese Grant Agreement
3.01                 5          N/A           N/S             N/A       The Recipient shall cooperate with the               N/A
Administrator, the Association and the
Consultants to ensure that the Technical
Assistance is carried out promptly and
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue
appropriate instructions to its officials, agents
and representatives.
3.02                 5          N/A           N/S             N/A       The recipient shall:                                 N/A
(a) make arrangements for all personnel of the
Consultants assigned to the Technical
Assistance (other than nationals of the recipient
or permanent residents for the Recipient's
territories) and all dependents of such personnel
promptly to be provided with any necessary
entry and exit visas, residence and work permits,
exchange documents and travel documents
required for their stay in the Recipient's
territories during the duration of the Technical
Assistance;
5          N/A           N/S             N/A       (b) facilitate clearance through its customs of      N/A
any equipment, materials and supplies required
for the Technical Assistance and any personal
effects of the personnel for the Consultants
assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than
nationals for the Recipient or permanent
residents of the Recipient's territories) and the
l____________ dependents of such personnel;
5          N/A           N/S             N/A       (c) Permit the Consultants to bring into, and        N/A
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories
reasonable amounts for foreign currency for
l____________   __________   ________________    _______________  purposes related  to  the  Technical Assistance;



26
5         N/A           N/S            N/A       (d) permit the personnel of the Consultants       N/A
assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents
of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents
of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw
from, the Recipient's territories reasonable
amounts of foreign currency for their personal
use; and
5         N/A           N/S            N/A       (e) exempt the Consultants and the personnel of   N/A
the Consultants assigned to the Technical
Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on
behalf of the Consultants and such personnel)
any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other
impositions imposed under the laws and
regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories
on the Consultants and such personnel in respect
of:
(i) any payments whatsoever made to the
Consultants and such personnel (other than
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents
of the Recipient' territories) in connection with
the carrying out of the Technical Assistance;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies
brought into the Recipient's territories by the
Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which, after having
been brought into such territories, will be
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(iii) any equipment, materials and supplies
brought into the Recipient's territories by the
Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Technical Assistance and which will be
consumed therein or become the property of the
Recipient; and
(iv) any property brought into the Recipient's
territories by the Consultants or such personnel
(other than nationals of the Recipient or
permanent residents of the Recipient's
territories) or the dependents of such personnel
for their personal use and which will be
consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn
therefrom by them upon their respective
departure from the Recipient's territories,
provided that the Consultants, such personnel
and their dependents shall follow the usual
customs procedures of the Recipient in
importing property into the Recipient's
territories.
3.03                5         N/A           N/S             N/A      The recipient shall be responsible for dealing     N/A
with any claims arising out of, or resulting from,
the Technical Assistance that may be brought by
third parties against the Administrator or the
Association. The recipient shall indemnify the
Administrator and the Association against any
costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out
________   ____________________________  of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in



27
connection with the Technical Assistance,
except those resulting from the gross negligence
or willful misconduct of the Administrator or
the Association, as the case may be
3.04               5         N/A           N/S            N/A      For purposes of carrying out the Technical       N/A
Assistance, the Recipient shall make available to
the Consultants, free of charge, the data,
services, facilities and equipment se forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.05               5         N/A           N/S            N/A      The Recipient shall make available to the        N/A
Consultants, free of charge, such counterpart
personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with
the advice of the Association and the
Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement. If any member of the counter
part personnel fails to perform adequately any
work assigned to him by the Consultants that is
consistent with the position occupied by such
member, the Consultants may request the
replacement of such member, and the Recipient
shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such
l ___________  .____________                                      request.                                               ...
4.01               9         N/A           N/S            N/A      The recipient, the Association and the           N/A
Administrator shall, from time to time, at the
request of any party, exchange views on the
Technical Assistance and consult on any reports
prepared by the Consultants and the
implementation of any recommendations made
in those reports.
4.02               5         N/A           N/S            N/A      The Association and the Administrator may use    N/A
any reports prepared by the Consultants for any
purpose that the Association or the
Administrator as the case may be, may consider
appropriate but those reports may not be made
public except by agreement between the
Recipient, the Association and the
Administrator.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                         10. = Project implementation not covered by
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. =  Management aspects of the project or              resource allocation
executing agency                           12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                           regulatory/institutional action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= not complied with
N/A = Not available
N/S= Not specified in the DCA



28
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT
OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,      Complied with partially
and Auditing
OD 12.20
Special Accounts                     Complied with
OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure             Complied with
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
I
Preparation to Appraisal         72               N/A               53.9              93.4       l
Appraisal Approval              NIA               N/A               32.8              59.6       l
Neoiation Board               NIA               N/A                7.1              17.1      l
Supervision                     N/A               186.1             183.4             306.8      |
Completion                       7.5               15.5
Total                           79.5              201.6



29
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Through Appraisa 
Appraisal through   June 17,    N/A        N/A       N/A           N/A               NIA              N/A           N/A
Board approval       1990 
Board approval      April 25,  N/A         N/A       N/A           N/A               N/A              N/A           N/A
through effectiveness 91
Supervision 1       5/4/91      4          8         OOF,ECO,    Yes                                  I             Procurement and
FA,ESP                                                         management
Supervision 2       9/13/91    1           4         PE            N/A               N/R              N/R           None
Supervision 3        11/5/91    4          14        PE, EPL,      FA = no, PE       I                I             Implementation
CONSLT        yes, EP  no                                      delays
Supervision 4       2/26/92    2           10        FA,EPL        No                1                I             Implementation
delays.
Supervision 5        5/4/92     1          4         EPL           No                N/A              N/A           None
Supervision 6       9/5/92      2          10        FA, EPL       Yes               2                1             Delays in
compliance with
Credit
Agreements,
procurements,
tariffs increase
and study.
Supervision 7       2/12/93    1           15        FA            Yes               N/A              2             None
Supervision 8       N/AINA/9 2            N/A        FA,ESP        Yes               2                2             Political unrest
Supervision 9        11/794     3          9         PE, FA,       Yes               S                S             Delays in
CONSLT.                                                        contracting due
Political unrest
Supervision 10       10/14/95   2          7         N/A           N/A               N/A              N/A           N/A
Supervision 11       1/3/96     4          7         N/A           N/A               N/A              N/A           N/A
Supervision 11       11/24/96   2          3         DV, Sr.FA     Yes               S                U              Implementation
Delay
Supervision 12       7/13/97    3          6         TMFA, OF,   Yes                 S                U              Security
OF                                                             problem and
fading
Govemrnment
commitment
Supervision 13        12//98   3           12        TMIFA         Yes               U                U              Management
Completion           4/6/99                10        INDECO        No
Key to Status
Perfornance Rating                 Specialized Staff
I = Problem Free                   OF = Operations Officer
HS = Highly Satisfactory           ECO = Economist
2= Moderate Problems               FA = Financial Analyst
3= Major Problems                  ESP = Energy Specialist
S= Satisfactory                    EPL = Energy Planner
US= Unsatisfactory                 Cons = Consultant
N/A. Not available.                Sr.FA = Senior Financial Analyst
DV = Division Chief                PE = Power Engineer
Principal Economist= PE.           INDECO = Industrial Economist
N/A = Not available                TM = Task Manager



30
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
PART III: AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    Dans le cadre de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet de R6habilitation du
Secteur de l'Energie, une mission de la Banque mondiale conduite par Madame Rosemary
Cubagee, Economiste, a visite le Burundi du 6 au 16 avril 1999. La mission a ete assistee par
Monsieur Prosper Nindorera, Charge des Operations ia la Mission R6sidente.
2.    La mission remercie les autorites burundaises et plus singulierement, Monsieur le
Ministre de l'Energie et des Mines, Monsieur le Commissaire General Charge des Entreprises
Publiques, MM les Directeurs Generaux de l'Eau et de l'Energie, de la Regideso, de
l'Hydraulique et des Energies Rurales, Madame le Directeur de l'Onatour, Monsieur le Directeur
des Forets, Monsieur le Directeur des Energies Rurales, ainsi que tous les differents responsables
et cadres du secteur de l'energie pour leur hospitalit6, la collaboration et l'appui apport6 a la
mission.
3.    Le Projet de Rehabilitation du Secteur de l'Energie fut approuve le 25 avril 1991 et entra
en vigueur le 30 octobre 1991. Le montant du credit s'elevait a 16,3 millions de DTS dont
environ 0,8 million ont et annules. La date initiale de cloture du projet etait le 31 decembre
1996, celle-ci a e  reportee au 31 decembre 1997 et ensuite au 31 decembre 1998.
4.    Objectifs du projet. Le projet avait pour objectifs de promouvoir des politiques
energetiques rationnelles et de renforcer la gestion efficace des ressources en 6nergie a travers:
(i) le developpement d'institutions efficaces dans le secteur de l1'nergie; (ii) Famelioration de
l'efficacit6 de l'emploi des ressources en energie par la reforme de la structure des prix de
lt6lectricit6, des produits p6troliers et des combustibles ligneux; (iii) l'accroissement de l'acces a
l'electricitd; (iv) la reduction des effets negatifs sur 1'environnement de l1emploi energie par
1'execution de programmes d'utilisation du charbon de bois et de foyers ameliores.
5.    Couits et financement du projet. Le cofit total du projet lors de son evaluation etait
estime a 32,2 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis repartis comme suit: IDA 22,8 millions,
Gouvernement 5,6 millions, et Regideso 3,6 millions. A la cl6ture du projet, suivant l'estimation
de la presente mission, le cout total est de 26,3 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis desquels l'IDA
a contribue pour 21,5 millions de dollars des Etats-Unis, le Gouvemement 2 millions et I'ACDI
3,7 millions de dollars canadiens (US$2,8 millions).



31
6.    L'Accord de Credit du projet fut amende A trois reprises. Le 22 mai 1992, le
gouvernement demanda l'etablissement d'un compte special afin de faciliter la mise en oeuvre de
l'ex6cution de certaines activites comme l'organisation de seminaires, la formation, I'assistance
technique de courte duree sur la carbonisation, le programme des foyers arneliores A charbon de
bois, et la conduite d'une etude sur la consommation d'energie. En novembre 1994, A la demande
du gouvemement, pour repondre aux difficultes auxquelles le pays faisait face en raison des
troubles socio-politiques que traversait le Burundi, le pourcentage de financement de l'IDA fut
porte A 100 pour cent pour toutes les categories de depenses durant l'annee 1995. Ce meme
amendement fut encore une fois apporte A l'Accord de credit pour la periode du 7 mai 1996 au 7
mai 1997. Afin de repondre A la faible disponibilit6 d'electricite en raison des sabotages (le 30
novembre 1995, seuls 3 MW etaient disponibles pour 1'ensemble du pays), en mai 1997, le
gouvemement demanda A l'IDA de joindre ces efforts A ceux de la CFD pour financer les besoins
urgents du Burundi de retablissement de sa capacite de production, transport et distributions
d'1ectricite. Le 12 novembre 1993, le Canada amenda l'Accord de don et le montant fut porte de
2 millions A 3,85 millions de dollars canadiens.
7.    La mise en oeuvre du projet a e  tres affectee par les troubles socio-politiques qu'a connu
le pays surtout de fin 1993 A 1996. Elle a et de surcrolt aggrav6e par la suspension des
d1caissements de 1'IDA d'octobre 1996 A mai 1997. Le 20 juin 1997, l'IDA leva la suspension
des decaissements.
8.    Resume des realisations du projet. En tout, quelques realisations partielles ont e
enregistrees dans chaque composante du projet. Le projet a contribue A la formation du personnel
du secteur de l1'nergie dans les domaines techniques ainsi qu'en gestion administrative. Le projet
a egalement finance de nombreux seminaires sur la reforme institutionnelle, la gestion, l'energie
et 1'environnement. Comme resultats de ces seminaires et formation, les capacites ont etd
amnliorees dans le secteur de l'nergie. Des etudes de faisabilite ont et6 realisees concernant le
developpement de l'electricite, l'emploi de la tourbe dans l'industrie. Des travaux de rehabilitation
ont etd realises dans le secteur de l'electricite. De meme, des equipements de bureau (ordinateurs,
imprimantes et scanners etc.), du materiel electrique, des pieces de rechange et des vehicules ont
e  acquis par le biais du projet. La reforme institutionnelle dans le sous-secteur de l'electricite
n'a pas ete mise en oeuvre.
9.    Resultats du projet. Des elements pernettent d'indiquer que le projet a atteint quelques-
uns de ces objectifs avant l'eclatement de la crise. Comme mentionne ci-dessus, (i) l'arnelioration
des capacites grace A la formation; (ii) la mise en place d'un systeme d'infornation de gestion,
merne si ce systeme a encore besoin d'etre ameliore; (iii) et l'acces a l'electricit6 tant en zone
rurale qu'urbaine s'est sensiblement amelior6 (bien que cette croissance ne soit quantifiee de
maniere precise), grace a la rehabilitation du reseau d'electricite. Ces resultats sont cependant
bien en dessous de ce qui etait attendu au ddpart, ils sont A mesurer dans les conditions du secteur
dans le contexte de la crise socio-politique traversee par le pays plut6t que par rapport A ce qui
etait originairement attendu du proj et.



32
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART IV: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    INTRODUCTION
Le Burundi est un pays de petite superficie, estimee a 27 834 km2. Sa population estim6e
a environ 6,4 millions d'habitants est d'environ 95 pour cent rurale, et son economie repose
essentiellement sur l'agriculture. Le taux de croissance demographique annuel est de 2,7 pour
cent et la densite de la population est estimee a 220 hab/Km 2.
La situation du secteur de 1'energie montre une forte utilisation du bois de feu et du
charbon de bois (plus de 95 pour cent du bilan energetique) dont la consommation depasse de
loin la production annuelle soutenable.
Quant aux autres formes d'energie, les produits petroliers pr6dominent dans la
consommation, suivis de l'electricite d'origine hydroelectrique.
Pour cela, le gouvernement s'est fixe un certain nombre d'objectifs pour developper le
secteur et qui sont:
* la fourniture de l'energie appropriee en quantit6 suffisante pour les activites economique et
sociale;
* I'amelioration et la rationalisation des conditions de production d'approvisionnement, de
distribution et de consommation d'energie dans le respect des interets economique, social et
ecologique A long terme;
* I'augmentation du nombre des populations ayant l'acces aux formes modernes d'6nergie;
* Ia limitation de la d6pendance vis A vis des sources energetiques importees, des produits
petroliers en particulier.



33
C'est dans ce contexte que la Banque mondiale a travers le credit <<Rehabilitation du
Secteur de l'Energie>> a beaucoup contribue, ces dernieres annees, pour atteindre ces objectifs,
soit en rehabilitant les ouvrages de production, de transport et de distribution de l'energie, soit en
renforcant la gestion des ressources energetiques, etc..
2.    OBJECTIFS ET DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
2.1. OBJECTIFS
Le projet etait guide par le principal objectif de promouvoir des politiques energetiques
rationnelles et de renforcer la gestion efficace des ressources en energie.
Specifiquement, le projet visait entre autres la mise en place d'institutions efficaces dans
le secteur, l'amelioration de la qualite des investissements publics, l'acces facile de la population
a l'electricite, et la reduction des effets ecologiques negatifs de l'emploi d'energie par l'execution
de programmes d'utilisation efficace du charbon de bois et de foyers ameliores.
2.2. DESCRIPTION
Le Proj et avait les composantes suivantes:
* r6habilitation de la REGIDESO (assistance a la gestion, restructuration financiere, formation
du personnel, construction du siege social, hausses tarifaires et reforme institutionnelle, etc);
* renforcement institutionnel de la DGEE, DGHER, DF et ONATOUR et formations;
* programme concernant la biomasse et les energies domestiques sous secteur de 1l'1ectricite;
* programme d'e1ectrification rurale;
3.    ORGANISATION ET COORDINATION DU PROJET
Le Projet a ete divise en plusieurs composantes, a la charge de plusieurs agences
d'execution: DGEE, REGIDESO, DGHER, SCEP, ONATOUR, DF (Direction des Forets). La
supervision inteme et la coordination g6nerale ont e  exercees par la Cellule de Coordination du
Projet, placee sous la responsabilite de la DGEE. Cette Cellule a assure egalement la gestion
comptable et a etabli les rapports semestriels d'avancement du Proj et.
La supervision externe a e  realisee au cours d'une quinzaine de missions de supervision
de la Banque mondiale par le Chef de Projet, soit en moyenne une mission par semestre. Les
rapports de toutes ces missions etablissent reguli&erement les bilans d'avancement de l'execution



34
du Projet et examinent la conformite des realisations etablies en commun accord avec
l'Administration et la Banque mondiale.
Enfin, conformement A l'accord de credit, les audits annuels ont ete realises par des
cabinets etrangers. Au total 7 rapports d'audits ont et produits.
4.    FINANCEMENT DU PROJET
Le Projet Rehabilitation du Secteur de l'Energie dtait finance par la Banque mondiale
(credit IDA 2230-Bu) pour un montant de 22,8 millions de dollars (16,3 mios de DTS). De
meme, I'ACDI apportait un financement complementaire de 3,85 millions de dollar canadiens
pour couvrir les frais de l'assistance technique assuree par HQI/CRC A la REGIDESO dans le
cadre de l'assistance A la gestion de l'entreprise.
Le Projet fuit approuve le 25 avril 1991 et entra en vigueur le 30 octobre 1991. La date
initiale de cloture du projet etait le 31 deecembre 1995, celle-ci a etd reportee au 30 juin 1996,
puis au 30 juin 1997 et ensuite au 31 decembre 1998. La date du demier decaissement est le 30
avril 1999, date A laquelle le solde non decaisse d'environ 0,8 million de DTS sera annule.
Pendant l'execution, nous avons enregistr6 35 pour cent des decaissements au 31 decembre 1995,
55 pour cent au 30 juin 1997 et 89 pour cent au 31/12/1998 (cfr tableau no. 1).
5.    RESULTATS
D'une maniere generale, le Projet a atteint la plupart de ses objectifs. L'un des objectifs
qui n'a pas e  atteint est la composante <<biomasse et energies domestiqueso annulee en cours
d'execution, en 1995, suite A la crise qui prevalait dans notre pays. Les resultats des differentes
composantes sont les suivantes:
5. 1. REHABILITATION DE LA REGIDESO
5.1.1. Assistance ai la gestion
Le diagnostic de la Regideso, fait en 1989 par Price Waterhouse, un bureau d'etudes
international, faisait etat des lacunes importantes dans la gestion. Le Projet Rehabilitation du
Secteur de l'Energie (credit 2230-BU) a integre dans ses composantes un programme de reforme
de l'organisation et de la gestion de la, societe ainsi que la formation de son personnel.
C'est dans ce cadre que la mise en application des mesures de redressement definies dans
le cadre du plan de redressement de la REGIDESO a ete confiee au groupement HQI/CRC
(groupement de bureaux canadiens).
Les actions etaient orientees dans les domaines commercial, approvisionnement et stock,
finance et comptabilite, gestion des ressources humaines, gestion des investissements,



35
informatique et gestion technique des reseaux. Des politiques et procedures ont ete mises en
place pour organiser et amrliorer les differents systemes de gestion.
Les resultats atteints sont dans l'ensemble satisfaisants, a l'exception des quelques
faiblesses observees au niveau du recouvrement, la comptabilit6 et la reduction des pertes
techniques et non techniques. Les differents domaines presentent des resultats suivants:
Volet gestionfinanciere et comptable
Un systeme comptable informatise et integre est operationnel a la Regideso, oui les
differents modules de comptabilite generale, immobilisations, gestion budgetaire, comptabilite
analytique et paie sont compatibles et interlies. Ce systeme permet un controle inteme de gestion
ainsi que la production des rapports periodiques de gestion et des etats financiers. Un seul
probleme qui subsiste est la certification de comptes (clients, immobilisations et stocks) par les
auditeurs externes. La preparation du dossier restructuration financiere avait permis d'eclaircir la
situation, mais des efforts supplementaires seront deployes pour valoriser ces comptes.
Volet gestion des approvisionnements et stocks
Le systeme de gestion des approvisionnements fonctionne de maniere satisfaisante. Le
logiciel << appro-stock >> permet d'assurer un meilleur suivi de la comptabilite matiere, d'avoir un
interface avec la comptabilite et de produire les rapports periodiques sur l'etat de stock.
Volet gestion technique des investissements
La mise en place du service planification generale et gestion des investissements a permis
d'ulaborer une politique d'investissements, des prograrnmes d'investissements, des budgets
d'investissements et d'en assurer le suivi et cela depuis 1992. Tous les projets d'investissements
font objet d'analyse de rentabilite. Ces projets doivent avoir respectivement un taux de rendement
inteme economique et financiere egal au moins A 10 pour cent et 8 pour cent. Tout projet qui ne
satisfait pas a ce critere requiert une subvention de la part de son promoteur pour qu'il soit
execute.
Volet gestion des ressources humaines
Avant la mission d'assistance, le personnel etait juge plethorique avec un ratio tres bas de
I agent pour 27 abonnes. Le niveau de formation des agents etaient egalement faible car
seulement 8 pour cent des effectifs avaient un niveau de formation de l'enseignement superieur.
L'evaluation et la determination de la charge de travail du personnel a conduit au gel des
embauches, A la reduction de 426 agents et au comblement des postes vacants par du personnel
forme et qualifie. Le personnel permanent a ete stabilise A 1 100 portant le nombre d'abonnes par
agent A 32/1 en 1992. Le ratio de 50 abonnes par agent, qui fait l'objectif de redressement est
presque atteint aujourd'hui, il etait etabli a 48 abonnes par agent A la fin de 1998.



36
Volet gestion commerciale
Un systeme de gestion informatise est operationnel. La banque des donnees sur les clients
est geree dans ce systeme et la production des factures est faite a la Regideso. Un service
inspection des compteurs a ete mis en place pour fiabiliser le comptage mais les taux de perte
restent eleves. Un service relations avec la clientele a et cree pour ameliorer le service aux
clients et accelerer les branchements.
Des efforts ont ete deployes pour diminuer le compte a recevoir de la Regideso, mais le
taux de recouvrement n'a pas atteint le niveau escompte.
Volet informatisation
Un service informatique a e  mis en place. Des logiciels administratifs, commerciaux
sont installes permettant un systeme integre oui la gestion commerciale et les approvisionnements
font interface avec la comptabilite.
L'equipe d'informaticiens a e  formee et se trouve a la hauteur de ses taches. Des
formations ulterieures leur permettant d'etre a jour et de suivre l'evolution du secteur sont
prevues.
Les actions restantes sont le raccordement des regions au systeme central informatique et
l'informatisation de la gestion technique des niveaux de production. L'equipe en place est en
mesure de faire ce travail.
Volet gestion technique production/exploitation
L'objectif de reduire les pertes (techniques et commerciales) n'a pas ete atteint bien que des
actions de contr6le des installations electiques et eau ont ete regulierement assurees par les
equipes de maintenance mise en place a cet effet. Les pertes ont continue a augmenter pour les
causes suivantes:
* les destuctions, les fraudes et les arrets des travaux d'entretien suite a la crise;
* le manque de moyens de maintenance des reseaux eau et deectricite.
5.1.2. Restructuration financiere
Le dossier restructuration financiere a et cl6ture en 1998 avec lI'laboration des contrats
d'accords entre la Regideso et l'Etat sur la mise en application des mesures arretees dans ce cadre.
Les /4 des points (les investissements non rentables, l'annulation des dettes croisees et le risque
de change) ont e  traites et finalises.



37
Concemant I'annulation des dettes KFW et CCCE pour lesquels les bailleurs ont emis des
prealables, une note sur l'etat d'avancement de la reforme et la demande de la retroccession de ces
credits leur a e redress6e.
5.1.3. Formation du personnel
Un plan de formation elabore par la Regideso et le Consultant HQI/CRC a et finalise en
1995 et approuve par la Banque mondiale. La realisation de ce plan s'est poursuivie jusqu'en
1998 et tous les domaines ont e  touches. Cependant, un autre plan de formation est necessaire
pour completer et perenniser les acquis du redressement.
5.1.4. Construction du siege social
Une etude de faisabilite pour la construction du siege social a e  commandee aupres du
groupement HQI/CRC. Il reste A presenter une requete de financement pour la construction du
siege aupres des bailleurs de fonds.
5.1.5. Hausses tarifaires
Avec le dossier restructuration financiere de la Regideso, le Gouvernement du Burundi a
donne le pouvoir au Conseil d'Administration de decider les hausses tarifaires en cas de besoin
sous la supervision du Ministre de tutelle. Depuis 1992, il y a eu 4 hausses tarifaires pour porter
le tarif moyen actuel A 33 Fbu/Kwh et 101 Fbu/m3. Deux autres hausses de 10 pour cent chacun
sont prevues en 1999 et 2000 pour atteindre les tarifs d'equilibre.
5.1.6. Reforme institutionnelle
Le processus de reforme est en cours. Le consultant Regie Inc a ete recrut6 en decembre
1997 et a deja remis le rapport de constat et les projets de textes juridiques regissant le secteur de
l'eau et de l'electricite ont ete prepares et seront presentes au Gouvemement au courant du mois
de mai 1999.
Des missions d'explication aux partenaires et au personnel de la Regideso ont dejA eu
livrees et la plupart des partenaires comprennent de plus en plus le bien fond6 du processus.



38
5.2. RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL DE LA DGEE, DGHER, DF (Dipartement des
Forets), ONA TOUR ET FORMATIONS
5.2. 1. Renforcement de la DGEE
Avec cette composante, la DGEE a entrepris un certain nombre d'actions et qui sont:
Formation des cadres
Tous-les cadres affectes au D6partement de l'Energie ont requ une formation dans leur
domaine d'activite. Tous les cadres formrs ont actuellement les competences necessaires pour
gerer et developper le secteur de l'energie.
Moyens logistiques et equipements
La DGEE est dotee d'un materiel d'equipement informatique et vehicules. Au total, la
Banque a finance l'achat de 7 ordinateurs, 7 imprimantes, 5 onduleurs et 1 scanner, une
photocopieuse et une machine a relier les documents et 6 vehicules pour permettre aux cadres
d'assurer le suivi du projet avec efficacite.
Etude de restructuration du CEBEA
L'etude de restructuration du CEBEA (Centre d'etudes burundais des Energies
Alternatives) a permis de faire une analyse sur la situation des energies nouvelles et
renouvelables et proposer des structures juridico-administratives a doter au Centre dans le but de
redynamiser sa mission. La mise en place de ces structures sera poursuivie par la DGEE en
fonction de la disponibilite des moyens financiers.
Suivi de respect des procedures et regles de passation des marches
Les services d'un Consultant pour le suivi du respect des procedures et regles de passation
des marches ont ete finances sur le credit. II a ete remarque que toutes les adjudications ont eu
lieu efficacement et conformement aux directives de la Banque mondiale. Un manuel de
procedures et regles de passation des marches a ete r6dige et mis a la disposition de la DGEE.
5.2.2 Renforcement de la DGIIE
Quatre volets ont etd finances par la Banque mondiale, a savoir:
Formation des cadres
Les cadres de la DGHER ont participe a des seminaires de formation tant a l'interieur qu
l'exterieur du pays. Les resultats ne se sont pas faits attendre. Tous les travaux relatifs a



39
l'identification, A l'elaboration, A l'evaluation et au suivi des projets sont menes par les cadres de
la DGHER sans appui d'experts etrangers comme dans le passe.
Etude diagnostique dufonctionnement des servicesfinanciers
Une etude diagnostique du fonctionnement des services financiers de la DGHER a et
commandee aupres d'une societe camerounaise (FAA).
Moyens logistiques et equipements
Des moyens logistiques et equipement informatique ont e  fournis A la DGHER pour
permettre aux equipes d'assurer le suivi des programmes qui venaient d'etre lances. Au total 6
vehicules et 3 micro-ordinateurs, 2 imprimantes et 1 onduleur et un appareil fax ont ete achetes
sur le credit.
5.2.3. Renforcement du departement des Forets
Des moyens logistiques ont ete foumis au Departement des Forets pour permettre le suivi
regulier du programme carbonisation. 11 s'agit d'une camionnette et 3 motos.
5.2.4. Renforeement de l'ONATOUR
Formation des cadres
Dans le cadre d'echange d'experience, trois cadres de l'ONATOUR ont participe A des visites de
formation A la societe similaire (BORD NA MONA).
Moyens d'equipements
La Banque a finance I'achat de 4 machines excavatrices de la tourbe et un lot de pieces de
rechange pour tracteurs et machines excavatrices. Ces equipements ont permis d'augmenter la
production de la tourbe.
Etude de reforme de 1' ONA4TOUR
Une etude de reforme de l'ONATOUR a ete commandee aupres du bureau EKONO
ENERGY en 1998. L'etude a conclu que la solution de privatisation se heurte a l'absence de
nouveaux debouches et A la rentabilite tres incertaine des projets de carbonisation.



40
5.3 PROGRAMME DE BIOMASSE ET ENERGIES DOMESTIQUES
5.3.1. Execution d'un programme de rendement energetique du charbon de bois
Les objectifs de ce programme n'ont e atteints que partiellement dans la mesure oui la
banque a decide d'annuler la composante en 1995 alors qu'a ce moment, la formation des
charbonniers aux techniques de carbonisation ameliorees venait juste de commencer. A la fin de
1'execution de la composante, les charbonniers formes escomptaient atteindre des rendements de
l'ordre de 18 a 25 pour cent (c'est a dire 18 a 25 Kg de charbon de bois en techniques amelior6es
contre 10 Kg de charbon de bois en technique traditionnelle). Le credit correspondant a ete utilise
pour financer une partie du plan d'urgence pour l'e1ectricite.
5.3.2. Programme des foyers ameliores a charbon de bois
Dans 1'execution de ce programme, une etude d'evaluation des programmes des foyers
amrliores a e  achevee en 1994. Les recommandations issues de l'etude ont e  par apres
poursuivies par CARE (une ONG canadienne) et PSE (Programme Special Energie) notamment
en financant les actions de formation, de vulgarisation et de sensibilisation.
5.3.3. Enguete de consommation d'energie des menages
L'enqu8te a ete realisee par un consultant local en 1994. Le rapport contenant les donnees
de consommation par region naturelle et par type d'energie est disponible. Les travaux de collecte
de donnees et de confection du bilan energetique sont actuellement menes par les cadres du
D6partement de I'Energie sans assistance ext6rieure.
5.3.4. Promotion de la tourbe
Les etudes menees pour promouvoir l'utilisation de la tourbe n'ont pas abouti des resultats
concluants. Ces etudes sont:
Etude defaisabilite de la substitution de la tourbe
Cette etude a e  realisee par le bureau EKONO ENERGY en 1994. Les analyses
montrent que l'utilisation de la tourbe dans l'industrie, notamment la BRARUDI, le Complexe
Textile de Burundi et la VERRUNDI serait le meilleur moyen de valoriser cette ressource. Le
gouvemement devrait donc prendre des mesures pour inciter ces usines a investir dans cette
technologie.
Etude de faisabilite technique et economico-financiere sur l'utilisation du charbon de
tourbe
L'etude a ete r6alisde le bureau EKONO ENERGY en 1998. Les analyses montrent, d'une
part, que les cofits de production du charbon de tourbe sont tres e1eve a cause des investissements



41
importants A consentir et d'autre part, que F'acceptabilit6 du charbon de tourbe sur le marche n'est
pas garantie.
5.4 SOUS SECTEUR DEL 'ELECTRICITE
5.4.1. Etudes de prefaisabilite et faisabilite des amenagements hydroelectrigues
Les etudes de prefaisabilite et faisabilite pour les amenagements hydroelectriques de
Kabu 16, Kabu 23, sur la riviere de Kaburantwa, Rushiha et Masango sur la riviere de Gitenge,
dans la partie nord-ouest du pays ont ete realisees par un bureau international. Parmi les sites
etudies, Kabu 16 a ete retenu pour un amrnagement d'une centrale hydroelectrique repondant au
critere de rentabilite economique.
5.4.2. Doublement de la ligne de transport 110 KV Bubanza-Bujumbura
Une etude du doublement de la ligne Bubanza-Bujumbura a ete realisee par le bureau
d'etude FICHTNER. Mais l'execution d'une ligne similaire de 110 KV, parallele A la ligne
existante a ete abandonnee au profit de financement de rehabilitation des ouvrages et acquisition
de materiel electrique.
5.4.3. Execution de nouveaux branchements et extensions des reseaux de distribution dans
les centres urbains
Les appels d'offres lances en octobre 1992 ont permis d'accroi^tre le nombre de clients et le
ratio nombre de clients par agent est passe de 32/1 en 1992 A 48/1 en 1998 ce qui est proche du
seuil d'acceptabilite en Afrique fixe A 50 abonnes pour I agent.
5.4.4. Rehabilitation des ouvrages de production, transport et distribution
Durant la crise, les equipements et les installations du parc national de production
d'6lectricite et d'eau ont e  la cible des attaques criminelles. La Banque mondiale a autorise dans
le cadre du credit 2230-Bu, un plan d'urgence d'une annee allant du 1 juillet 1997 au 30 juin 1998
pour rehabiliter les equipements detruits par la guerre. Les actions financees sont la fourniture de
materiels de rehabilitation des lignes et postes, les pieces de rechanges pour les centrales et les
groupes electrogenes. Des mesures techniques ont accompagne cette rehabilitation en vue
d'optimiser le rendement. Il s'agit de l'etude du plan de delestage et la gestion de la pointe, du
programme de maintenance, du programme des pertes ainsi que du programme d'economie
d'energie dans les industries et dans les menages finances dans le cadre du projet.



42
5.5 PROGRAMME D'ELECTRIFICATION RURALE
5.5.1. Elaboration du Plan Directeur d'Electrification Rurale (PDER.)
Le Plan Directeur d'Electrification rurale (PDER) a ete realis6 par un bureau etranger,
ICM. I1 a abouti au classement des projets repondant a des criteres techniques et socio-
economiques rigoureux. Sur une liste de 48 centres candidats a l'electrification rurale
pr6selectionnrs, 27 ont ete retenus pour etre electrifies avant l'an 2000.
Concernant les aspects institutionnels, le PDER recommande de confier la construction
des lignes principales MT a la REGIDESO, les derivations MT et BT a la DGHER et la gestion
tant technique que commerciale aux organisations locales.
Suite a la crise socio-politique dans laquelle notre pays a ete plonge depuis 1993, ces
structures locales de gestion ne sont pas encore mises en place. II s'agit d'une activite a
promouvoir des que l'appui financier sera disponible. Aujourd'hui, conformement au decret No
100/072 du 21 avril 1997 portant delimitation des responsabilites entre la REGIDESO et la
DGHER, celle-ci s'occupe de la gestion technique et commerciale des reseaux MT et BT qu'elle
construit.
5.5.2. Tirages des lignes extensions
La construction de 4 lignes d'e1ectrification rurale, la foumiture de poteaux en bois ainsi
que la livraison de materiel electrique avaient ete retenues dans le cadre du projet.
Les lignes construites sont les suivantes:
- Kiryama-Rvumvu-Rumeza pour 17,2 Km
- Kirundo-Ntega pour 13 Km
- Busebwa-Mugara pour 6,50 Km
- Gatara-Musema pourl4,50 Km
Les deux premieres lignes ont ete achevees en 1996 et les deux dernires en 1998. Elles
desservent desormais ces nouvelles localites en electricite. Profitant de ces tirages des lignes, les
populations environnantes ont fait des demandes d'extensions. C'est dans ce cadre que la Banque
a aussi finance des extensions a partir de ces lignes pour electrifier les centres de Maramvya, de
Gisyo, de Butwe et de Buraniro ainsi que le prolongement de la ligne
Buraniro-Burarana-Matongo.
Des travaux de rehabilitation des microcentrales de Kigwena, Nyabikere, Butezi, Murore
et Ryarusera et de refection de leurs reseaux ainsi que la reconstruction de la ligne
Buhiga-Bugenyuzi detruite pendant la crise ont e  finances et receptionnes dans les d6lais. Du
mat6riel electrique MT et BT a 6te aussi commande.



43
Ces travaux d'electrification rurale jouent un grand rOle dans le developpement des
localites. Nous pouvons noter que le nombre d'abonnes geres par la DGHER est passe de 100 a
environ 550 depuis le lancement du projet. On observe surtout la naissance d'activites non
agricoles dans les centres alimentes comme la soudure, la mouture et la menuiserie.
6.    DIFFICULTES RENCONTREES ET INSUFFISANCES
Du point de vue general, 1'ensemble des composantes du projet s'est deroule avec
satisfaction. Toutefois, il importe de souligner quelques difficultes:
*  II a ete constate l'existence de plusieurs gestionnaires lors de l'execution du projet. Ceci a
rendu difficile la coordination. Dans l'avenir, il serait souhaitable que les demandes de
paiement des factures soient centralisees au sein la Cellule de Coordination du Proj et.
*  Le manque de frais de fonctionnement de la Cellule de Coordination du Projet et de
contrepartie du gouvernement au Projet. II faudra pour le futur projet, creer une Cellule
autonome et y accorder les moyens humains et materiels suffisants.
*  Les procedures exigees par la Banque pour pouvoir payer les fournisseurs et par
l'administration pour attribuer les marches etaient longues. Pour eviter cela, il serait
souhaitable de revoir ces procedures.
*  Malgr6 la non objection de la Banque mondiale pour la foumiture de deux camions a
l'ONATOUR en vue d'augmenter la production de la tourbe, le Departement des
decaissements n'a pas approuve le paiement et par consequent la livraison n'a pas encore
eu lieu.
La crise qui a secoue le pays depuis 1993 n'a pas permis de realiser toutes les actions
programmees.



44
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ENERGY SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2230-BU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART V: AUDITORS REPORT
EXERCICE SE TERMINANT AU 31 DECEMBRE 1997
RAPPORT DES AUDITEURS SUR L'UTILISATION DU COMPTE SPECIAL
RAPPORT DES AUDITEURS SUR LES DEMANDES DE RETRAIT DES FONDS
RAPPORT DES AUDITEURS SUR LES ETATS FINANCIERS
RAPPORT DES AUDITEURS SUR LE CONTROLE INTERNE



45
RAPPORT SUR L'UTILISATION DU COMPTE SPECIAL
POUR L'EXERCICE SE TERMINANT AU 31 DECEMBRE 1997
Au cours de notre revision des etats financiers du PROJET REHABILITATION
DU SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE (PRSE) pour 1'exercice cloture le 31 decembre 1997 nous avons
examine les operations enregistrees sur le compte special A la Banque de la Republique du
Burundi (BRB) dont un etat de rapprochement figure A la page 2.
Notre examen a e  effectue conformement aux normes de revision comptable generalement
admises, et a comporte en consequence les verifications par sondage des contr6les et procedures
internes ainsi que les ecritures comptables ayant trait aux operations des comptes, et les autres
procedes que nous avons juges necessaires en la circonstance.
A notre avis, les operations effectuees A travers le compte special ont ete executees
conformnment aux termes de l'Accord de Credit de Developpement numero 2230, et les contr6les
et procedures internes utilises pour les operations sur ce compte sont fiables.
Signed
DE CHAZAL DU MEE & CO
Experts Comptables
RAPPORT SUR LES DEMANDES DE RETRAIT DES FONDS
POUR L'EXERCICE SE TERMINANT AU 31 DECEMBRE 1997
Au cours de notre revision des etats financiers du PROJET REHABILITATION
DU SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE (PRSE) pour 1'exercice cl6ture le 31 decembre 1997 nous avons
examine les demandes de retrait de fonds soumises A l'IDA conformement A l'Accord de Credit
de Developpement 2230 BU signe en date du 4 juin 1991.
Notre examen a ete effectue confornmment aux normes de verification
generalement admises, et a comporte par consequent les sondages et autres procedes que nous
avons juges necessaires en la circonstance.
Nous avons verifie les demandes de retraits de fonds et les releves de depenses
fournis A I'appui de ces demandes ainsi que les procedures et contr6les intemes ayant servi A les
etablir.
A notre avis, les documents soumis et les procedures et controles internes utilises
pour leur etablissement sont suffisamment fiables pour justifier les retraits de fonds qui sty
rapportent.
Signed
DE CHAZAL DU MEE & CO



46
Experts Comptables
RAPPORT DES REVISEURS COMPTABLES INDEPENDANTS
SUR LES ETATS FINANCIERS
POUR L'EXERCICE SE TERMINANT AU 31 DECEMBRE 1997
Nous avons examin6, conformement aux "Normes Internationales d'Audit", l'Etat des Ressources
et de D6penses pour l'exercice se terminant le 31 decembre 1997 et la Situation Patrimoniale au
31 decembre 1997 du PRSE. Ce projet est regi par l'Accord de Credit no.2230 BU signe le 4 juin
1991 entre la Republique de Burundi et l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA).
Les auditeurs de 1'exercice 1995 n'avaient pu emettre une opinion sur la situation
patrimoniale du Projet. De plus il n'existe pas de livre comptable des exercices
precedents et ce jusqu'au 31 decembre 1995 afin de justifier la fiabilite et
1'exactitude des soldes d'ouvertures au I janvier 1996. De ce fait nous n'avions pu
exprimer une opinion sur la sincerite de la situation financiere au 31 decembre 1996.
A cause de ces meme faits nous ne pouvons exprimer une opinion sur la sincerite de la situation
Patrimoniale au 31 ddcembre 1997.
Nous sommes d'avis, cependant, que les operations pour 1'exercice au 31 decembre 1997 telles
que decrites dans les etats des ressources et des depenses a la page 2 sont fiables conformement
aux normes de revision comptable generalement admises et aux principes du plan comptable
Burundais.
Signed
DE CHAZAL DU MEE & CO
Experts Comptables



47
Ce 5 mai 1998
Monsieur Le Directeur General
Projet Rehabilitation Du Secteur De LEnergie
BP 475
Bujumbura Republique du Burundi
Monsieur le Directeur
AUDIT DU PROJET REHABILIATION DU SECTEUR DE L'ENERGIE
RAPPORT SUR LE CONTROLE INTERNE
Nous avons l'honneur de vous soumettre ci-apres notre rapport sur le contr6le inteme du Projet
Rehabilitation Du Secteur De l'Energie pour l'exercice se terminant au 31 decembre 1997.
Ce rapport a pour objectif d'attirer votre attention sur diverses observations que nous avons faites
au cours de nos travaux. Celles-ci devraient vous aider a ameliorer la presentation des comptes
annuels du Projet et les procedures de contr6le interne.
Ces commentaires ont d'ailleurs deja ete communiques verbalement lors de la reunion de
synthese qui s'est tenue au siege du Projet le 24 avril 1998.
Nous vous remercions, ainsi que 1'ensemble de votre personnel, pour votre hospitalite et pour
votre precieuse collaboration tout au long de notre mission.
Nous vous prions d'agreer, Monsieur le Directeur, 1'expression de nos salutations
distinguees.
Signed
DE CHAZAL DU MEE & CO



48
CONTROLE INTERNE
1.    ETATS FINANCIERS
II y a eu une amelioration certaine au niveau de la preparation des etats financiers par rapport a
l'exercice precedent. Ainsi nous avons note qu'un effort special a e  fait par le comptable.
Nous avons passe les 6critures n6cessaires pour corriger les erreurs not6es de meme que pour
comptabiliser les creanciers et les demandes en cours.
2.    REGISTRE DES DEMANDES IDA
Nous avons note que la personne responsable de la preparation du registre a fait un effort dans
son etablissement. Cependant nous sommes d'avis qu'elle ne maitrise pas cet exercice par
manque de formation.
Nous recommandons, donc, que le registre soit maintenu dans la forme recommandee dans notre
rapport sur 1'exercice 1996.
3.    DEMANDES DE PAIEMENT
Nous avons note que les factures ne sont pas systematiquement classees avec les
demandes de paiement. Des fois des photocopies sont illisibles.
Afin d'ameliorer le contr6le nous recommandons que les demandes de paiement soient preparees
et centralisees au niveau de la cellule de coordination et que toutes les factures soient attachees.
4.    SYSTEME DE SUIVI COMPTE FOURNISSEURS ET MARCHES
Le systeme comme preconise dans notre precedent rapport n'a toujours pas ete mis en place.
Ainsi, quoique un effort a ete fait au niveau du registre de facture, celui-ci n'a pas ete bien
maintenu et les factures sont incompletes.
Nous recommandons, donc, que le systeme preconise dans notre rapport pour
l'exercice 1996 soit mis en pratique.



49
5.    NON OBJECTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Monsieur Philippe Misago conseiller a la Direction de L'energie avait eu la
"non objection" de la Banque pour assister a un seminaire sur la privatisation du secteur de
l'energie et problemes connexes a Intrados (USA) du 8 au 19 septembre 1997, les details sont:
USD
Frais de stage                                                       4,539
Frais de sejours (USD 165 par 15)                                   2, 475
Billet d'avion                                                      10,000
II est cependant parti suivre au Canada un stage en "Management et gestion de projets". Les frais
ont ete les suivants:
USD
Frais de stage                                                       1,463
Frais de sejours (USD 165 par 38)                                    6,270
Billet d'avion                                                       2,265
USD                                                                  9,998
Selon l'administration du projet quand le montant ne depasse pas l'enveloppe accordee, elle peut
proceder a une reaffectation des agents a former - en fonction des programmes et de la
disponibilite des formateurs tout en informant la banque de L'une ou l'autre modification
apportee a l'ensemble du programme.
Nous avons e informr  qu'une correspondance en ce sens a e  adressee a l'IDA.
Nous recommandons, cependant, que dans des cas similaires un nouvel "non objection" de la
Banque devrait etre obtenu.
6.    MANUEL DES PROCEDURES
Le present Projet arrive a echeance a la fin de juin 1998.
Dans l'optique de la mise en place d'un nouveau Projet, nous recommandons qu'il y ait des
procedures comptables et administratives adequates et appropriees. De plus ces procedures
doivent etre consignees dans un manuel.



50
APPENDIX
BURUNDI: Energy Balance, 1997
(mtoe)
Oil          Gas          Coal         Electricity    Others      Totals
Primary production             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.03          1.18         1.21
Imports                        0.05          0.00         0.00         0.01          0.00         0.06
Exports                        0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Primary Supply                 0.05          0.00         0.00      0.04 (a)         1.18         1.27
Net Transfornation (b)         0.00          0.00         0.00        (0.03)         0.00        (0.03)
Final Consumption              0.05          0.00         0.00        0.010          1.18         1.24
(a) Expressed as input equivalents on an assumed generating efficiency of 33%.
(b) Transformation input and outputt plus energy industry fuel and losses.
(c) Output basis.
Source: Energy Data Associates, on IDA Country Web Page.
BURUNDI: Electricity Production, 1993 - 1997
=_____________ HE___._          _._ .(kW               h)
City              1993             1 994            1995            1996             1997
Mugere                         39.1             38.8             39.7            32.3             35.0
Rwegura                         54.3            27.1             46.1            54.8             37.9
Ruvgironza                      0.4              2.6              3.9             4.5              3.1
Others                          7.5              7.1              7.1             6.1              6.6
Totals                         101.3            75.6             96.8            97.7             82.6
Source: Banque de la Republique du Burundi, Bulletin Mensuel, on IDA Country Web Page.



51
IBRD 22083R1






CENTRAIANCRAN REP.                              ETHKOEA
CAMEROO1N \.  .-"                             r           i     -.    -
BURUNDI
,2 . ,   ; . 4    A                                                                 POWER NETWORK
ONGO                                     BURUNDI
TANZANIA         fE-                                                                                                 RWANDA
_.y l '1,,,  X Rc  r:                ! .RWANDA
; .  ANGOlA       G      ZAMBIA-'U                           _~                                9    t                             _,_ ZABI
UZIZIA            .1 ZAMBIA                 '~~~~~MOZAMBIQUE'/~800
8StA      29 00                                            0000-                                                           *        EJ   b P31 B  B r s r                                                     m
'Tf2Mw_                                                          T                                                              NhW           A/ 0D/  JTON/         /
\~       /  ~N                                                                                  I    BPSI ~ZAMSd I,Now
- %              RUlIOROo ,    A                                            ToKqpS                  tle  2X0KW s                                ee7RWANDA                         TANZANIA
KB,hony,0  BAR1O                                                                     /    -,                                 Ma ^~   ~   i o  ^4uyan0e     (}
9  \q    4Iona                                               88/OlG  -Pu,E                    Gakoe-       Gsoorweo t6'  Mutyrngan        -,//
%i6ihoke             9          AWGS           12           9Y       tt
OROKA   V_               _              _    Boe0o,a   Gi               oob            / N9z                                                             a.  @ 
-_-\X/6   N'Dor*                                                                                         8 ,,   j K^l \s \!) M,oG6                       ToNGEMh2yn
K.MW         n                                                                          8020W       \       Mb        Rubo          
800  01                                                             R oha-GR                /    /
MulonUwS   -.-aai                              0 i                  0          B 0  UFND  22 RtF U0 7- GA 240KW   K
_3-30' ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     B     go0 '/~                                                     G28046 0                                    )       \a r  uog3        *g    \__-nRy  Muroeme.
8140|     R23  5 /-                                                 Bogenyoai E    tag3nzw e / )GRMOA                                 040- o
iMI  0   8-                                                                                       oI \                                      I NMam RA,
Bolca      P1- 18   - '              Buramb               NARRTM 14                        COIMZIAH         NyP r
- GEEC 3               27g; :t                           KcLo.n,La            008 AWE\ Mu)mboro                      l  ozn
72~~072W -
ul;                                                                                                                       R-.9.5 i       \   ynd 
t=: ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     G                                                 Giei       -=-= J-  ;  x v c o b  ow 4/7   Vrusiso   i
MWEVAa
8040'/    :  i: i,                       0  t U                          'Kibimb*                 i                            - Ruyigi
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ,' Ji |0                                                                               02  ,  incrwo>-TNAIAPvdRed
a,J     -           A                   A t:  i:    2  t t    '                                                                     -- oRWIBAGA  a  04                      000
/0                10 E                                                                                                /  :f: + bi20w .   -+ IKmhooAro
(Muram tu                        G2j    flE82B                        Malinebaca    Bpaooooa
MA    BA Mab |                                        G     Yhe        ro ro,
v             3 *                       /                                     zartofTTe W0Kanraye    '0   A   Bob                          10       20       30       4
m ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -                                         a #                     /                                      UNDEoRm lr'tr    m    
-v  29-02                4MW :                B,,                         - .' |   2Y'OONTf                        o-:m-2OP
4                                                                                Kirny.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4Thaa  ooe  IaB   ioI
--1/C.ONSTRann,CTI(NTRe
J   ~ ~            -I     A        8100                                                                                         Barth/Gravel Reedn
a       h- S   Pjat - Paoont (DIl -d
Vy-d.                                                                         0~~~~~~~ao.TOA-a,aaoca
60KW(                                                             70 oacacEkV  -iLOMT-R Li.
A        I                                                                                                                                                                                               04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loab\I
-a  00'80.               Oraa'    I                                         00'IB                                            80040'                                               CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30kVT-i...Li



