Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CANADIAN GRANT RELATED TO
CREDIT NUMBER 2230 BU
Canadian Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Canadian Contribution
provided by the
Government of Canada
Dated August 7, 1991
CANADIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2230 BU
CANADIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1991, between the REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the 
"Beneficiary") and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator 
(the "Administrator") of the Contribution (as hereinafter defined) provided by the 
Government of Canada ("Canada").
WHEREAS the Beneficiary has requested the assistance of Canada in financing part 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
"Development Credit Agreement") between the International Development Association and 
the Republic of Burundi entered into on June 4, 1991;
WHEREAS by an agreement dated March 28, 1991, between Canada and the 
International Development Association (the "Contribution Agreement"), Canada has 
requested the International Development Association, and the International Development 
Association has accepted, to administer an amount of two million Canadian dollars 
(Can$2,000,000) (the "Contribution") in accordance with the provisions of the 
Contribution Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Beneficiary acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to 
the Beneficiary under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by Canada to the Beneficiary;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this
Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Contribution 
except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 
6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement" whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Contribution extended to the Beneficiary under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the T-Account (as hereinafter defined in this Agreement);
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Beneficiary and the Administrator, 
the Beneficiary shall 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the project referred to in the 
Preamble to the Canadian Grant 
Agreement, the performance by the Beneficiary and the 
Administrator of 
their respective obligations under the Canadian Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Contribution."; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted; and
(h)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the term "T-Account" means the account opened in the Bank of Canada in 
the name of the Administrator to which the amount of the Contribution is credited.
ARTICLE II
The Contribution
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a Contribution in an amount of 
up to two million Canadian dollars (Can$2,000,000), or such other amount as shall have 
been made available by Canada to the Administrator for this purpose pursuant to the 
Contribution Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Contribution may be withdrawn from the 
T-Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services and related expenses required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Contribution.
Page  3
(b)
Promptly after deposit by CIDA of the first advance of the Contribution 
the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Beneficiary, withdraw from the T-Account and 
pay to itself the amounts of the Contribution allocated to Category (3) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts for 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Contribution shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Sections 3.01, 
3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.08, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 5.01 and 5.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said sections to "the Association" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the Contribution under this 
Agreement, all references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to 
be references to the Contribution and the T-Account, respectively, and all references 
to the Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Beneficiary.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its signature and shall 
continue in effect until termination of the Contribution Agreement, or until the 
Contribution has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled 
their obligations hereunder, whichever occurs first.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Beneficiary at the time responsible for energy 
and mines shall be the representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Beneficiary:
Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines
B.P. 747
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Telex: 
5182 BDI
Fax: 
00257223337
For the Administrator:
Page  4
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 5.03. In accordance with the Contribution Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Canada. 
The Beneficiary accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Beneficiary to that effect, Canada shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if Canada had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date the
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as
Administrator of the Canadian Contribution
provided by the Government of Canada
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Contribution to 
each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Contribution
                              Allocated              % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   Can$ Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               1,940,000        1OO%
Page  5
    services
(2) Unallocated                   20,000
                                ________
         SUB-TOTAL             1,960,000
(3) Supervision,                  40,000        Amount due pur-
    Administration                              suant to Section
    fee and Auditing                            2.02 (b) of this
    of T-Account                                Agreement
                               _________
         TOTAL                 2,000,000
                               =========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to June 4, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The activities to be financed by the Contribution include:
(a)
implementing more effective and more efficient management systems to 
increase the performance of REGIDESO; and
(b)
developing the endogenous capacity of REGIDESO in order to perpetuate the 
reform implemented by favoring the strengthening of its internal resources in 
technical, financial and administrative management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
