CREDIT NUMBER 2230 BU
Project Agreement
(Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REGIE DE PRODUCTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE
Dated                           , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2230 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1991, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and REGIE
DE PRODUCTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE (REGIDESO).
WHEREAS (A) by a Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Burundi (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
16,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that REGIDESO agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REGIDESO, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to REGIDESO on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS REGIDESO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. REGIDESO declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Parts
A.1, A.2 and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environ-


﻿-2-
mental, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Associatirn shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A.1, A.2 and D of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. REGIDESO shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts A.1, A.2 and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. REGIDESO shall duly perform all its obligations
under     Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, REGIDESO shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) REGIDESO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.1, A.2 and D of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   REGIDESO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.1, A.2 and D of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by REGIDESO of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. REGIDESO shall appoint and employ for the
duration of the Project competent chief officers to head its
Accounting and Internal Auditing Units.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. REGIDESO shall, by September 30, 1991, furnish
to the Association the following documeatation in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association:
(a)   a plan of action to reduce technical and non-technical
losses of electricity;
(b)   a preventive maintenance plan for REGIDESO's electric
systems;
(c)   the recommendation of a manpower study carried out under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association including a plan
of action to reduce personnel and increase productivity;
(d)   a personnel training program;
(e)   a billing and revenue collection improvement program;
and
(f)   a proposal for the construction of a new administrative
building and for other required improvements in facilities.
Section 2.08. REGIDESO shall, for the purposes of carrying
out Part D of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain for
the duration of the Project a project implementation unit with
staff, organization and functions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of REGIDESO
Section 3.01. REGIDESO shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
f .nancial and technical practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. REGIDESO shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
electrical practices.
Section 3.03. REGIDESO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the


﻿-4-
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) REGIDESO shall maintain records and
accounts, including separate accounts for its water operations and
separate accounts for its electricity operations, adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
(b)   REGIDESO sUall:
(i)    have  its  records,   accounts  and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,  in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as socn as available,
but in any case not later than f ix months after
the end of each such year, (A) ..ertified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited including, in respect ef the financial
statements for the fiscal year ending December
31, 1990, the recommendations of the study on the
revaluation of assets financed from the proceeds
of a credit (Credit No. 1593-BU) granted by the
Association to the Borrower, by an Agreement
dated June 14, 1985 to assist in the financing
of a Power Transmission and Distribution Project,
and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, REGIDESO shall produce for its fiscal year ending
on December 31, 1991, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20%, and for each of its fiscal years thereafter
equivalent to not less than 30%, of the annual average of REGIDESO's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year.
(b)   Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years starting
in 1991 REGIDESO shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
REGIDESO and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that REGIDESO would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for REGIDESO's fiscal
years covered by such review, REGIDESO shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, consumer deposits
and consumer contributions in aid of
construction, net non-operating income and
any reduction in working capital other than
cash; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all expenses   related  to
operations, including administration, ade-
quate maintenance and taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), debt service requirements, all
cash dividends and other cash distributions
of surplus, increase in working capital
other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.


﻿-6-
(ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, REGIDESO shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues
of REGIDESO for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall in 1991
be at least 1.2 times, and thereafter at least 1.5 times the esti-
mated maximum debt service requirements of REGIDESO for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of REGIDESO, including the debt
to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term   "debt" means any   indebtedness of
REGIDESO maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations adjusted to take
account of REGIDESO's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt, even
though they were not in effect during the


﻿-7-
twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, and net non-operating income; and
(B)   the  sum  of all   expenses  related  to
operations including administration, ade-
quate maintennace, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.
(iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
REGIDESO: (a) shall not undertake any new investment having an
economic rate of return of less than 10% or a financial rate of
return of less than 8%, both as calculated using a method of
calculation acceptable to the Association; and
(b)   shall not undertake any investment exceeding in the
aggregate the equivalent of $650,000 without the prior consent of
the Association.
Section 4.05. REGIDESO shall systematically cut off the supply
of electricity to all consumers, including agencies of the Borrower
and Municipalities, having invoices outstanding for sixty days or
more and shall take all other steps as shall be necessary to reduce
the average age of receivables from the private sector to five
months' billing by December 31, 1991 and to three months' billing
by December 31, 1992 and thereafter.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of REGIDESO thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
REGIDESO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified


﻿-9-
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For REGIDESO:                        Telex:
3 Avenue de la Science           5006 BDI
B.P. 660
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Facsimile No:
00257 226563
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of REGIDESO, or by REGIDESO on behalf of
REGIDESO under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as
the General Manager shall designate in writing, and REGIDESO shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
' Regional Vice President
Africa
REGIE DE PRODUCTION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Burundi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, REGIDESO may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $700,000, may be procured under contracts


﻿- 12 -
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15 is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist REGIDESO in carrying out Parts A.1, A.2
and D of the Project, REGIDESO shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOP, SECRETARY


