                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 31648

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (TF-23078 CPL-40410 PPFB-P2760)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                           FOR AN

                  IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                          May 5, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Kazakh Tenge (Tg or KZT)
                         US$ 1 = 135 KZT

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 to    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          APAP              Agriculture Post Privatization Assistance Project
          CWR               Committee of Water Resources
          CG                Consultants Group
          ERR               Economic Rate of Return
          EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
          FISD              Farmers' Information Services Desk
          GOK               Government of Kazakhstan
          ICR               Implementation Completion Report
          I&D               Irrigation and Drainage
          IDIP              Irrigation and Drainage Improvement Project
          IDIP2             Second phase of IDIP
          MOA               Ministry of Agriculture
          MOF               Ministry of Finance
          MOENR             Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
          MTR               Mid-Term Review
          O&M               Operation and Maintenance
          PIU               Project Implementation Unit
          PHRD              Policy and Human Resources Development
          PPF               Project Preparation Facility
          SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
          SEE               State Ecological Expertise
          SYNAS             Syr Darya Control and Northern Aral Sea
          TA                Technical Assistance
          TOR               Terms of Reference
          QAG               Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank
          ROK               Republic of Kazakhstan
          WOP               Without Project scenario for ERR estimate
          WP2004            With Project as in year 2004 (for ERR estimate)
          WPF               With Project Future in about four years
          WUA               Water Users' Associations
          WUCC              Water User Consumer Cooperative

                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director       Dennis de Tray
               Sector Manager        Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Masood Ahmad

                                          KAZAKHSTAN
                  KAZAKHSTAN IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                     1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
   6. Sustainability                                                                 14
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  15
   8. Lessons Learned                                                                17
   9. Partner Comments                                                               19
   10. Additional Information                                                        21
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              26
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              31
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              33
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 34
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             35
   Annex 8. Additional Information about the Subproject                              36
   Annex 9. Opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture of ROK on the Project (IDP)       44

MAP No. IBRD 33837

 Project ID: P008510                                                      Project Name: KAZAKHSTAN IRRIGATION AND
                                                                          DRAINAGE PROJECT
 Team Leader: Masood Ahmad                                                TL Unit: ECSSD
 ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 5, 2005


1. Project Data
                      Name: KAZAKHSTAN IRRIGATION AND                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-23078; CPL-40410;
                               DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                             PPFB-P2760
     Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                            Region

         Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (92%); Central government administration
                               (8%)
                     Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural markets (P); Environmental
                               policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                               Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                      Original                  Revised/Actual
             PCD: 04/07/1993                                        Effective: 09/23/1996                  10/21/1996
      Appraisal: 11/07/1995                                              MTR: 10/31/1999                   10/12/1999
       Approval: 06/18/1996                                          Closing: 12/31/2003                   12/31/2004



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:             REPUB. OF KAZAKHSTAN/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                        Other Partners:

STAFF                              Current                                           At Appraisal
Vice President:                    Shigeo Katsu                                      Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:                  Dennis de Tray                                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                    Joseph R. Goldberg                                Michael A. Gould
Team Leader at ICR:                Masood Ahmad                                      Van Roy Southworth
ICR Primary Author:                Masood Ahmad; Mahwash
                                   Wasiq


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                              Outcome:         S
                        Sustainability:        L
   Institutional Development Impact:           H
                   Bank Performance:           S
             Borrower Performance:             S


                                                          QAG (if available)              ICR
                                     Quality at Entry:                                    S
                       Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
A more realistic rating of the project outcome would be "more than satisfactory" considering the Highly Satisfactory rating as
the top of the scale. This is so because all project development objectives were met as shown in Section 4, the outcomes are

likely to be sustainable and in particular the institutional impact of the project was high. Howevr, conservatively it is rated as
Satisfactory.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's main development objectives were to: (i) promote sustainable irrigated agricultural
production through irrigation and drainage rehabilitation, improved water management, and better
operation and maintenance; (ii) introduce improved agricultural practices and farmers' information
services; and (iii) strengthen irrigation and environmental agencies.                  The objectives were consistent with
the Bank's strategy to assist the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) and the Agricultural Sector Review of
1994. The Project complemented the reforms incorporated in the Development Policy Letter for the FY95
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL Ln. 3900) and it was consistent with the Bank's Environment and Water
Strategy in Kazakhstan and with recommendations of the Bank Water Resources Management Policy.

The development objectives were appropriate, particularly keeping in view that the Project was to start in a
very uncertain environment when the Kazakh economy and agriculture sector were going through transition
after the country's independence in 1991. At the time of project appraisal, the process of transferring the
Government farms to private farmers was still at its infancy, as was the restructuring of the institutions.
The irrigation and drainage (I&D) systems were in a dismal state after years of poor maintenance.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project was to support GOK's six-year irrigation and drainage investment program. It was appraised
on the basis of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for about 34 sub-projects prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) with the assistance of foreign and local consultants. Selection criteria were agreed with
the MOA to include subprojects in the investment program. Two of the most important considerations
were that rehabilitation/improvement would only take place on the privatized successors to the state farms
and it would aim at rehabilitating the existing irrigated areas and/or land previously irrigated but
abandoned, thus specifically excluding expansion of irrigation to new lands under the Project. A feasibility
study had been undertaken for each subproject to establish technical, economic and environmental viability.
The main components of the Project are as follows (SAR estimate vs. actual expenditures):

Component 1: Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems (US$108.14 million vs US$90.19
million). This Component was to improve the reliability and efficiency of irrigation water use, involving
rehabilitation of surface irrigation and sprinkler systems; and reducing waterlogging and salinity, including
rehabilitation of collector drains and on-farm drainage improvements to surface, tile or vertical drainage
systems. Project works included predominantly on-farm system rehabilitation (considering the state farm as
one large farm) as well as selected improvements in inter-farm irrigation and drainage. A substantial part of
what was initially assumed to be on-farm works became off-farm (or inter-farm) works after the state
farms had gone through restructuring. The rehabilitation works were to cover an area of about 30,000 ha
and were undertaken in three groups of subprojects, averaging about 10,000 ha. Out of 34 subprojects for
which feasibility studies were prepared, a core program of nine subprojects was identified for construction
to start in Year One (1996/97 with a base cost of US$26 million) and Year Two (1997/1998 with a base
cost of US$17 million) of the Project.                  A list of 13 "reserve projects" was prepared for selecting
subprojects to start in Year Three of the Project (with a base cost of US$26 million). The detailed designs
for these subprojects were to be prepared during project implementation.

Component 2: Promoting Agricultural Development in Privatized Farms (US$2.27 million vs



                                                               - 2 -

US$2.12 million). At the time of project appraisal most members of the subprojects farms appeared to
prefer to be part of a functional group within their large farm unit and work under the aegis of the former
State/Collective Farm management and specialists, rather than to take the risk of being the owner of a
smaller private farm. The functional groups were former production brigades, groups that had been
responsible for either on-farm water management, crop production, management of the machinery pool, or
dairy production. The main reasons for the reluctance of the shareholders to restructure the larger farms
into small units was: (a) lack of overall management skills; (b) lack of operating capital; (c) poorly
developed marketing and input supply mechanisms; and (d) lack of inputs, spare parts, and equipment.
Also, effective research, extension and agricultural information services did not exist in the country for
private farmers.     This Component was to address these shortcomings through: pilots for farmers'
participatory training and information services; support for farm restructuring; and demonstrations for crop
production technologies.

The Component was designed to cover training courses and workshops to be conducted at selected project
farms for individual farmers or farmers' groups, farm managers and production specialists on topics of
modern farm and business management, marketing and processing of produce, and environmental
management. Together with training, relevant demonstrations on improved on-farm water management and
new crop production technologies were to be conducted to show farmers how to increase efficiency of
applied inputs, and how to intensify crop production. A Farmers Information and Services Desk (FISD)
was to be established to provide technical pamphlets, videos and other materials on critical agricultural
issues related to farm management, production and marketing. FISD was also to serve other irrigated farms
not included in the Project and information was to be disseminated in Russian and Kazak through the
existing TV and radio channels by MOA's Press Center and through a "Farmers Weekly" paper. The farm
restructuring support sub-component was to develop a strong participatory process and empowerment of
farm members by providing access to information and management skills.                It was to encourage
development of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) in conjunction with farm restructuring, thereby
providing an institutional mechanism to operate and maintain the system and assure equitable access to
water by all farmers.

Component 3: Institution Building (US$5.65 million vs US$4.46 million). The Component consisted of
two crucial activities: (a) support for the MOA and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to upgrade its
capacity for project implementation; and (b) strengthening the environmental capacity for preparation of
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) of the various subprojects and environmental monitoring. The
Component also included a study to determine the feasibility of transferring irrigation management for a
typical canal command area in Kazakhstan from government control to management by the farmers/water
users.

The support for MOA and PIU was to upgrade their institutional capacity in planning, preparing, executing
and monitoring the I&D investment program. The PIU was to contract management and engineering
consultants to: (i) assist and train PIU staff in project planning, management, monitoring, procurement, and
financial management; (ii) take responsibility for updating/preparing feasibility studies, preparing EIAs,
undertaking field surveys and designs, preparing bidding documents; and (iii) assist PIU with farmers'
participation, establishing WUAs, and construction supervision.

The support for the environmental capacity subcomponent covered: (a) institutional development and
training including: (i) preparation of an improved Environmental Assessment framework for
irrigation/drainage development; preparation of an EIA manual for I&D, and building environmental
capacity in MOA; (ii) EIA preparation and State Ecological Expertise (SEE) review, including preparation
of remaining project specific EIAs and SEE review as required by national environmental legislation and


                                                       - 3 -

governmental regulations; (iii) training for managers, I&D engineers, environmental staff, farmers; and
developing an EA harmonization procedure to reconcile differences in the Bank and Kazakh EA
requirements and procedures in order to foster EIA preparation for project processing in various sectors;
(b) strengthening water/soil quality monitoring and pollution control, agro-meteorological programs and
provisions for equipment and materials, including provision of field and laboratory monitoring equipment,
computers, data processing and management, and chemicals for laboratory analysis; monitoring of soil
contamination, drainage surface and groundwater quality, and residues and quality control of agricultural
inputs/outputs; (c) special environmental studies, including development of cost-effective methods to
prevent salinity and water-logging; (d) development and implementation of mitigation plans, including a
pilot project to clean drainage water from agro-chemical residues; and afforestation within the boundaries
of the sub-project area.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during project implementation. However, there was a shift in emphasis on
various project activities.    The Project was the first investment in the sector after the country's
independence and one of the few Bank projects in the agriculture sector in the region involving
rehabilitation of infrastructure. Based on the lessons learned in the region, the Project included technical
assistance (TA) and consulting services for introducing rigorous economic and environmental analysis,
preparation of detailed designs, bidding documents and procurement procedures that were standardized for
the country, development of water users' associations (WUAs), and strong oversight for construction
supervision and contract management. The Agricultural Development Component, in particular, consisted
of substantial TA and consulting services for establishing demonstration plots, farmers training, and the
FISD. Even though the GOK was convinced of the need for consulting services, based on the demonstrated
necessity for them in the field, it remained concerned with the level of consulting services during project
implementation, particularly for the agriculture Component because of high foreign consultant's fees and
the fact that the agriculture Component was considered as a soft component. Consequently, some of the
TA and consulting services related to the agriculture Component were reduced, while the consulting
services for engineering were slightly increased. Also, GOK placed higher emphasis on the development of
WUAs during the Project's mid-term because it was giving increasing attention to the cost recovery and
was mandatory that agreements for cost recovery were to be signed with the WUAs prior to the start-up of
the construction. Project implementation was extended by one year, primarily to cover the defects liability
period for a few subprojects that were completed in the year 2003 and enable final payments to the
contractors from the project funds.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The Project was well prepared based on feasibility studies for about 34
subprojects. A rigorous set of economic and environmental criteria were agreed with the Borrower for
selection of the subprojects. In addition to these criteria, some subprojects may have been selected, as the
Borrower wished to spread the project investments country wide.           To ensure project readiness for
implementation, detailed designs of several subprojects were prepared before project startup. Sufficient
resources and capacity were provided under the Project for carrying out high quality analysis, designs, and
construction supervision during project implementation. The institutional structure for implementation was
very well designed and together with the agreed procedures for subproject design, procurement and contract
management, contributed significantly to the smooth implementation of the Project. At the time of
appraisal, sectoral issues and constraints to production were thoroughly analyzed and incorporated in the
project design. In retrospect the cost recovery rate was over ambitious, given experience elsewhere in the
world and the very early stage of transition in Kazakhstan. The MOA and Bank project preparation teams
had good collaboration and worked closely during project preparation and appraisal.




                                                    - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory as all development objectives have been met. The I&D
system was rehabilitated in some 15 sub-projects in 9 oblasts of the country covering more than 32,000 ha
of irrigated area.   Prior to their rehabilitation, the I&D systems in most of these subprojects were
nonfunctional due to years of neglect and land was degraded with very little production capacity. The
farms in these subprojects were nearly abandoned and machinery stocks were depleted. After I&D systems
rehabilitation the land is coming back under production. The crop yields have increased between 12-200%
(compared to appraisal estimates of 20-139%) and the cropped area has increased in most subprojects
--overall the cropped area has doubled with the Project.         Water management has improved in the
rehabilitated subprojects. There are substantial water savings annually in the rehabilitated subprojects,
particularly in those with gravity schemes, and there are considerable energy savings in subprojects with
pumped water supply and sprinklers (see Annex 8, Table 3). 2004 was the first year of cropping for
several subprojects and the third year for those where rehabilitation started in the first year of the Project.
Therefore, farm productivity is expected to increase further and reach its optimal level over the next three
to four years (by 2008) as soil fertility improves, the farmers are able to invest in better farming
technologies and practices, acquire better inputs and services, gain more experience, and better organize
and manage other farm activities, including the marketing of their products. Thus, the first objective of
promoting sustainable agricultural production, and better water management and Operation and
Maintenance (O&M), has been achieved as envisaged at appraisal.

Similarly, the second objective of introducing improved agricultural practices has been largely achieved.
Towards this goal, improved agricultural practices were introduced to the farmers, training courses were
successfully carried out; field demonstrations for the introduction of improved agricultural practices were
held in 10 subprojects; business plans for all subprojects were developed to provide guidance on developing
financially viable farms; and farm extension services in the form of a Farmers' Information and Services
Desk (FISD) were provided. Increasing cropped area, yields and water saving in subprojects provide
credible evidence of positive outcome of various project activities towards this objective.

The aim of institutional development was fully accomplished under the Project. The Project had wide
ranging impacts on institutional strengthening. The Government, MOA, and other concerned agencies and
their staff have gained substantial experience in the preparation of irrigation and drainage improvement
projects, formation of WUAs, design of rehabilitation works, preparation of cost estimates, procurement
and bidding procedures, construction supervision and contract management.                 The environmental
institutional capacity building objective was achieved and environmental Hydro-Amelioration Expedition
centers/laboratories were modernized.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The component outputs were fully realized. The details by component are given below:

Component 1: Rehabilitation of I&D Systems. This was the largest component of the Project. Under
this Component, I&D systems were rehabilitated in 15 subprojects spread all over the country. The list of
subprojects rehabilitated, area covered and type of the I&D system is provided in Annex 8, Table 1, and
the subprojects that were canceled are listed in Annex 8, Table 2. The description of works implemented in
each subproject and other salient features are also given in Annex 8. The rehabilitation/improvement works
consisted of repairs and installation of sprinkler systems (both pivotal and linear move), rehabilitation and
installation of pumping stations, pipelines, irrigation and drainage wells, rehabilitation/reconstruction of
irrigation and drainage channels, canalets or concrete flumes, land leveling, rehabilitation of rural roads,



                                                     - 5 -

water supply systems, etc. The rehabilitated and improved I&D systems cover more than 32,200 ha
compared with the appraisal estimate of 30,000 ha. An area of 17,500 ha is covered by gravity schemes
and 14,700 ha is under pumped schemes. The gravity schemes generally have open channels for water
distribution, except in the case of Darkhan where enough pressure is available due to the elevation of the
intake to distribute the water through sprinklers. The pumped schemes generally include various types of
sprinklers for water distribution in the field, except in the case of Shengeldy where buried pipes discharge
water into concrete flumes and earthen open channels for distribution to the field by gravity.

At the time of project appraisal, feasibility studies were prepared for about 34 subprojects. Out of these,
initially 24 subprojects with an area of about 41,000 ha were selected for detailed studies and of those, five
sub-projects were eliminated during the study stages due to environmental, economic and other reasons.
For the remaining 19 subprojects comprising an area of 35,000 ha, the study and design stages were
completed and bidding documents and engineers' estimates were prepared. After completion of the designs,
two subprojects were canceled from the program, in one case the farm was in severe debt and in the other
case, the owner decided not to proceed. By spring 2000, 17 feasibility studies and EIAs were completed
and 16 bidding documents and O&M plans were completed. Business plans were prepared for several
farms in various subprojects based on a sample farm for a typical unit. In total, 17 business plans were
developed. Based on these plans, the areas of three subprojects were reduced. Two subprojects were
cancelled from the final selection because of high per hectare rehabilitation costs and lack of reaching an
agreement with the owners. The implementation of the subprojects started in three batches: (a) first stage or
year one projects, consisting of four subprojects which had the highest priority and were most ready; (b)
second stage projects, consisting of seven subprojects; and (c) four remaining subprojects, which were
covered under the third stage. Most of the subprojects were completed in two years, except two which had
a three-year construction period. All construction works were completed by end 2003.

The sequence of this Component's activities consisted of the selection of subprojects based on a
pre-feasibility study, consultation with the farmers/owners followed by preparation of the detailed
feasibility study and EIA, both of which were cleared by the State Expertise (in both Engineering and
Environment) as well as the Bank. This was followed by the preparation of detailed designs and cost
estimates and development of WUAs. Agreements for implementation arrangements and cost recovery
were then signed with the WUAs, and the bidding documents and business/operational plans prepared. The
contractors were selected through international competitive bidding procedures. After construction, the
projects were taken over by the MOA/PIU and transferred to the farmers for operation and maintenance.
The subprojects had a defect liability period of one year, after which the project works were checked by the
technical staff of the MOA/PIU, Committee of Water Resources (CWR), other concerned agencies of GOK
responsible for State Expertise, the engineering consultants, and the farmers. The contractors removed any
defects identified during this inspection.

The procedure for forming WUAs was developed as part of a detailed study under Component 3 for
Institution Building on the feasibility of transferring system management for a typical canal command to
the farmers in Kazakhstan. The WUAs were organized in accordance with the new law for WUAs passed
in September 1999. In large subprojects (such as Maktaral, Kurchum, Shengeldy, Akkumski) having a
large number of farmers, a two-tiered organization was established. Water User Consumer Cooperatives
(WUCCs) were established at the lower level of the systems and an association of WUCCs was formed at
the upper tier of each system. As a part of the process of establishing WUAs, the Maktaral subproject
was used as a pilot to establish procedures and for developing a standard form for the WUCC Charter and
procedural methods. This initiative also included: assistance in establishing the WUAs and at least two
weeks training for WUCC staff in administration and financial management, and management of the I&D
systems.


                                                      - 6 -

The farmers/WUAs participated intensively in the rehabilitation/improvement of the I&D systems through
all stages of the Project: during the planning and feasibility study phase, with selection of equipment and
the final design, and during the construction phase. Many changes were made during the subproject
preparation and implementation at the request of the farmers.             The final design documents were
countersigned by the owners/WUAs. This was possible because the technical capacity existed in these
subprojects. The original farm managers and many of the technical staff responsible for water management
and O&M of the I&D systems when these subprojects were operating as state farms were still present and
functioning in some capacity in these subprojects. Some were farmer/owners, and others were engaged by
the owners. Many of them were still living on these farms, some making a living through farm related
activities such as livestock, machinery operation and maintenance, and trading agricultural commodities
and inputs. The bidding documents were therefore structured in a manner that allowed flexibility in the
selection of equipment (meeting the technical specifications) by the farmers/owners. In a few cases, the
owners actually visited the equipment manufacturing factories outside Kazakhstan to check on the
suitability and quality of the equipment, as well as the continued availability of spare parts e.g. the Kaisar 2
(near Astana) farmer visited sprinkler manufacturing plants in Russia.

As shown in the economic analysis section, the cropped area and crop yields have increased significantly
after rehabilitation of I&D systems, yielding substantial employment and benefits to the farmers and the
country's economy.      These benefits are expected to increase further over the next few years.           The
Component was crucial for improving the systems' water management. Annual water savings in the
rehabilitated subprojects are substantial (1,300 cubic meters per hectare on average), particularly in
subprojects with gravity systems like Maktaral, Akkumsky and Kurchum, where water savings are much
higher. (Annex 8, Table 3 indicates that in gravity systems water applications have been reduced to half).
The annual energy savings in pumped schemes with sprinklers for water application in the field is also
substantial (1,000 Kwh/ha on average). The employment is increasing in subprojects as a result of
enhanced cropping activities. The physical and institutional outputs of this Component were demonstrably
significant and vital for achieving the project objectives, hence they are rated High.

Component 2: Agricultural Development. Originally - during the preparation/pre-appraisal stage - this
Component was intended to be a full-fledged farm restructuring and development component, including the
provision of credit for farmers of the subproject areas. However, unfamiliar with and uncertain about the
new development approaches, and wary about the value of foreign consultants, the GOK delegation
reduced the scope of the Component during negotiations to a three-year pilot, with the current title of
"Pilots for Farmers Participatory Training Services and Information Services." The most serious reduction
took place in the farm restructuring part of the Component. The elements of the revised component
consisted of: participatory training, demonstrations, provision of farmer's information services and
consultancy services. Also, due to GOK's insistence to minimize the technical assistance and consulting
services costs (particularly the costs for foreign consultants), the contract for consulting services for
implementation of the pilots was limited to two years only. However, the consultancy contract was
subsequently extended for one more year through a reallocation of the existing budget under the contract.
Despite these limitations, the Component was very productive and effective in contributing towards the
project development objectives.

For the "training of trainers," twelve training modules with 22 courses were designed. The trainers were
drawn from agricultural universities and other organizations. For "farmers' training," 39 training courses
were provided to over 1,000 participants in various locations in the field. For demonstration and field days,
10 demonstration plots were developed. The demonstration plots were used to show new technologies and
crop rotations, economic and improved farm management practices and also served as training grounds for


                                                      - 7 -

other farmers in the area, as well as for farmers from other subproject areas. Based on the farmers'
demands, on field days much attention was given to the costs and benefits of the various crop and farming
systems. Under Component 1, a demonstration was also organized in Kaisar 2 subproject to demonstrate
sprinkler technology.

The farmers considered the Farmers' Information Services Desk (FISD) extremely useful and, through its
publications and broadcast service, became the most visible and successful part of the pilot program. Under
FISD, 31 technical brochures, 70 technical videos, 22 paper articles, 23 TV broadcasts and 26 radiocasts
were produced. What did not succeed under this sub-component, was the "Farmers' Weekly," which was
to be carried out by two private agricultural newspapers "Selskaya Nov" and "Auyl," in the Russian and
Kazakh languages respectively, as both papers ran into financial problems due to lack of a sufficient
number of paying subscribers.

The Component was very successful and in high demand by the farmers of the subprojects, as well as other
farmers. After three years of implementation, a revised version of the component was prepared with
reduced costs, based on the services of national consultants. Along with this revised component, the
Government also proposed to provide the subprojects' farmers with farm machinery under the project loan
through the WUAs because banking services to farmers for medium term funds were not available at that
time, and farmers had a serious need for new tractors. Although the demand for such machinery among the
farmers was high, an arrangement satisfactory to both the GOK and the Bank for providing this machinery
could not be reached, despite efforts by several Bank missions to resolve this issue. Notwithstanding its
short duration, the Component contributed substantially towards the Project's success, particularly in
improving water management and agricultural practices and thus increasing the profitability of the farms
following the rehabilitation of the I&D systems.

Component 3: Institution Building. The Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) capacity was strengthened
substantially in preparing, designing, and constructing I&D projects. However, in early 2000 following the
PIU's move from Almaty to Astana, MOA dissolved the PIU as a semi-autonomous entity and most staff
were re-employed in a Consultant Group (CG) in the MOA, under the overall supervision of the MOA.
The technical staff of the CG were headed by a Chief Consultant but the procurement, accounting and
financial management staff in the CG were placed under the direct supervision of MOA's Finance
Department, while the environmental and agriculture staff came under the supervision of MOA. Unlike
most countries in the region, CG was actually established within the MOA structure, reporting to the Vice
Minister thus the MOA had ownership of the Project. As a result, the capacity building was more
enduring. Additionally as the irrigation and drainage functions are now moved to CWR which is a very
competent institution and an integral part of the Government structure, capacity building is more effective.

Throughout the implementation period, the PIU/MOA staff was given training in project design,
procurement and construction management. They also received on-the-job training by working with the
engineering consultants, consisting of international firms and national design institutes. The PIU/MOA
staff worked as Project Managers for the civil works contracts and they were supported by construction
inspectors and quantity surveyors. All were given training in quality control, material testing and overall
site and contract management.

In 2002, in keeping with the latest Water Law, the responsibility for I&D planning and management was
transferred to the Committee of Water Resources, following its own transfer from the Ministry of the
Environment and Natural Resources (MOENR) to MOA. MOA's I&D staff was also transferred to CWR.
Consequently, CWR, which has significant capacity for the management of water resources systems, large
structures, canals and inter-farm canals, will now also be responsible for the preparation and


                                                    - 8 -

implementation of the second phase of IDIP (IDIP2). These institutional changes have further strengthened
the institutional capacity of the water sector, since it is now located in one agency that deals with the entire
water and I&D system. This allows it to address water issues in an integrated manner and will enhance the
Government's interaction with the final water users through the already functioning oblast and rayon level
branches of CWR.

The capacity of the water users and WUAs in O&M of the I&D systems has been strengthened under the
Project through training and on-the-job experience at the subproject level. The WUAs have taken over the
completed systems, and have made formal and informal arrangements for carrying out O&M. O&M
manuals have been prepared for all subprojects.

The Project's institution building support has actually extended beyond MOA to many Government and
private institutions involved in the sector, as well as the construction industry. The capacity of several
design institutes and contractors that were involved in project implementation has been enhanced
substantially. About ten design institutes have worked with international consultants in preparing
engineering designs of I&D improvement works in various subprojects and most of these institutes are now
private firms. As a result of their participation in the Project, these firms (as well as the MOA staff) were
exposed to, and have acquired new techniques and computer systems for carrying out surveys,
investigations, engineering designs, preparation of environmental assessments, business plans, as well
preparation of bidding documents, all aspects with which they were not familiar before. Similarly, the
contractors gained experience in construction through competitive bidding, higher construction and
management standards, and quality control.

Study for Transfer of Irrigation Management. A feasibility study for transferring system management for
inter-farm canals from Government to the users was completed under the Project. It encompassed a case
study for the Tashatkul Massif in the Shoo and Moyinkum districts in Dzhambul Oblast, covering an area
of about 42,500 ha, and a case study for the Maktaral subproject with an area of about 10,000 ha
(mentioned in Component 1). No area was included in the Tashatkul Massif for I&D system improvement
under the Project as it was just taken as a sample for a typical large gravity irrigation system. The study
formed, inter alia, the basis for developing the procedures and methodology for establishing WUAs in the
subprojects. The study included detailed recommendations for the establishment of the Tashatkul system as
a pilot for irrigation management transfer at the inter-farm canal level. It proposed a three-phase pilot
transfer program to be implemented over a period of 12 months and also provided the cost estimates for its
implementation. It recommended that the pilot be started only after the recommended amendments and
adjustments to the legal and regulatory environment supportive of large scale WUAs were made. With
recent legislation and adoption of a water code, it is now possible to implement the pilot and
recommendations of the study. Therefore, the recommendations of this study for participatory management
at the inter-farm level are likely to be included in IDIP2, which would cover a large area in the South
Kazakhstan Oblast with I&D systems similar to Tashatkul and Maktaral.

Strengthening Environmental Capacity. Environmental capacity was strengthened through: (a) on-the -job
training and technical seminars by the environmental consultants; involving PIU/CG staff, national
consultants and farms in the preparation of EIAs for all subprojects; and demonstrating best EIA practices
to the State Ecological Expertise (SEE).        An Environmental Unit was established in the MOA for
environmental sector policy making. An EA Harmonization Seminar was held in 1997 with the aim to
harmonize the environmental requirements and procedures of the Republic of Kazakhstan (ROK) and the
World Bank. Two documents were developed during the EA Seminar: (i) a document "On Understanding
of Requirements and Procedures of ROK for EIA and SEE and those for EA of the World Bank:" and (ii) a
letter on "Strengthening Environmental Assessment Management for World Bank-Financed Projects." The


                                                       - 9 -

final report of the Harmonization Seminar was formally accepted by the MOA and the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MOENR) in 1998. The two mentioned documents thereby became
the guidelines for EIA preparation and SEE review for the IDIP subprojects. Over time a streamlined
procedure was developed for carrying out an EIA and SEE for each subproject; (b) strengthening the three
existing hydro-amelioration expedition centers in the cities of Almaty, Kzyl Orda and Shymkent for water
quality, soil salinity and environmental monitoring through the provision of the necessary equipment and
materials. In addition, a new center was established in Astana. The laboratories are now operational and
carry out monitoring in the subproject areas as well as in other areas. Detailed guidelines for subproject
performance monitoring and evaluation system, based on GIS software, were also developed using the
Shengeldy subproject as a sample area; and (c) the preparation of a pilot project to clean drainage water
from agro-chemical residues for subsequent use in afforestation, was also prepared for Shengeldy by the
Research and Production Association for Industrial Ecology (Kazmekhanobr), which is subordinate to the
MOENR. This pilot has not been implemented yet but a project based on the same idea is now under
implementation in Astana for treatment of sewage water and its use for afforestation outside the city.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post economic evaluation of the Project was carried out following the appraisal methodology. Farm
models developed for each subproject rehabilitated were used for performing the economic analysis. The
Project Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated by adding all costs (including the costs of project
management, construction supervision, agricultural and institutional components) and incremental benefits
of all subprojects. During appraisal, the ERR was estimated only for subprojects that were to be
implemented during the first and second year of project implementation and these data were used to
estimate the overall Project ERR. The ERR for the remaining subprojects was estimated as a part of their
feasibility studies prior to their inclusion in the Project, as the appropriate level of ERR was the main
selection criteria. At project completion, the overall ERR is estimated at 32% compared to 27% at the
appraisal stage. The ERRs for the individual subprojects range between 12% to 23% with the exception of
Maktaral subproject that has an ERR of 51% (Annex 3, Table 4). Maktaral constitutes about 30% of the
total project area and has lowest per hectare cost. Thus its impact on overall ERR is substantial. Ex-post
ERRs for all subprojects and the projected ERRs for them at the appraisal stage and or during feasibility
studies are presented in Annex 3, Table 4.            ERRs for individual schemes reflect their diverse
characteristics, including the cost of their rehabilitation. The ERR for subproject Maktaral is very high
owing to favorable agro-climatic conditions for growing cotton which is a high value crop. The net present
value, discounted at 10% over a period of 25 years is KZT 18,557.67 million (US$137.5 million
equivalent.)

Project benefits have resulted primarily from increased agricultural production with a combination of
increase in cropped area, increase in crop yields and shift towards high value crops. About 70% of the
benefits are due to an increase in cropped area and 30% is due to an increase in yields. Other benefits
include savings in energy costs particularly for subprojects with pumped irrigation system which were
quantified and included in the analysis. There have been considerable water savings which in many cases
will be utilized within the subproject area. However, water savings in gravity schemes such as Maktaral
and Akkumsky are so high that some of the water may be used out of the subproject area and/or for
meeting environmental demands. These benefits are not quantified. The Project created direct employment
for 6,600 people in 2004 (see Annex 3, Table 3 by subproject) in the farming sector and this is estimated to
increase to more than 8,000 over the next three years. The secondary impact of direct employment by the
Project has not been estimated. Based on the economic analysis, it is clear that the Project resulted in
increased productivity and employment.




                                                    - 10 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was high as it had this as an explicit objective and included
a component for institution building. The capacity of Government agencies involved in the I&D sector as
well as in construction of infrastructure in other sectors has been enhanced greatly as a result of the
Project. The MOA/PIU's capacity was strengthened in preparing, designing, and construction of I&D
projects. The institutional building is also sustainable as the PIU was integrated into the MOA structure
and CWR has now taken over the responsibility for future I&D development. The water users and WUAs
were strengthened at the subproject level in carrying out O&M of I&D systems. As mentioned above, the
Project also had a broader impact on institutional building and this was not limited to the MOA. The MOA
staff that have worked as Project Managers of the civil works contracts are in high demand in the country
because of their experience in procurement, engineering, construction supervision and contract
management. After project completion, many of them are now working in other World Bank, Asian
Development Bank and other donor funded projects. Some of them are working in the private sector, with
companies involved in construction of urban and rural water infrastructure as well as in the oil industry.

About ten national design institutes have worked as sub-consultants under the supervision of the
international engineering consultants to prepare the engineering designs for I&D improvement works in the
various subprojects. Many of these are now private firms and are involved in construction projects all over
Kazakhstan. Since the strengthening of these design institutes has substantially upgraded the technical
capacity in the country, GOK now finances all consulting services for development projects from its own
resources, though consultants are selected using guidelines similar to those of the World Bank Guidelines
for Selection of Consultants.

The construction industry in Kazakhstan has benefited greatly from the Project by enhancing its capacity in
carrying out construction works under international contracts. Many local contractors started working as
subcontractors to the international contractors but they subsequently managed to win and implement ICB
contracts themselves as main contractors, under the IDIP as well as other projects. A few of the IDIP
national contractors are now involved in other projects supported by the World Bank, other donors and
GOK.

The most notable institutional development impact of the Project is probably in the area of procurement
and contract management capacity. Even for projects funded from its own resources, GOK has now
adopted the Bank's procedures for procurement, bidding, forms of contracts and bidding documents. After
approval by the MOF, all agencies of GOK are now using these procurement and contracting procedures.
Although, all credit for these changes cannot be attributable solely to IDIP, it indeed deserves the most
credit, since it was one of the first projects through which GOK gained experience in procurement and
contract management,. Based on the above and its impact on private and public sector development, the
Project deserves a High rating for institutional development impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There has been no significant events outside the control of the Government or implementing agency that
affected project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Project experienced some delays in implementation, mostly related to budgetary             problems,   a



                                                     - 11 -

controversy about the mechanism for cost recovery, and the restructuring of the PIU following its move
from Almaty to Astana (all of which are discussed in more detail below). Nevertheless, project
implementation has generally been satisfactory mainly due to excellent project preparation, upfront
preparation of feasibility studies and detailed designs for several schemes, the agreed upon institutional
structure for implementation, and support from engineering and other technical consultants.

In the early stages of the Project, counterpart funding was a problem and this affected the implementation
of a few subprojects. To address this issue, the Bank increased the disbursement percentage for works at
the request of the GOK in 2000. During IDIP implementation, frequent changes in procedures for annual
budgetary allocations created uncertainty and inflexibility, particularly, when a new budget system of
"passports" was introduced in 1999/2000.        Due to the requirement that the budget requests for the
following year had to be submitted well in advance and unutilized funds from the allocated budget were
perceived as a sign of incompetence of the implementing agency, the implementing agency tended to lower
its estimates for the next budget year. In addition, the budget allocations were made against very detailed
expenditure categories while the spending was strictly controlled by category without much flexibility for
reallocation of funds among the categories. In early 2000, due to these budgetary problems, the MOA had
to delay the signing of two contracts that had been awarded; the opening of bids received for three
contracts; and the pre-bid conferences for two contracts. However, counterpart funding was not a problem
during the later years (from 2001 onward) as the GOK had a budget surplus by then. It is unlikely to be an
issue in future projects --the GOK is financing at least 50% of the cost of projects recently
approved/negotiated.

The MOF had a very strict control over changes in the contracts for consultants and works, which left little
flexibility for the MOA in project management. In addition, any changes to the contracts were also to be
cleared by the local governments (maslihats) as part of the counterpart funds were provided by them. In
practice, this often caused delays in approval and avoidance of beneficial changes during construction.

The strict requirement by the State Expertise for a very detailed feasibility for each subproject, requiring
considerable time and resources for preparation upfront, and particularly the inflexibility in reallocation of
budget during the year, meant that expansion of a subproject or addition of a new subproject was very
difficult in the later years of project implementation. As a result, the savings from the cancellation of a
subproject could not be utilized because the timely preparation of a new subproject was not deemed
possible by the implementing agency. The Government has been reviewing its budget procedures and is
making adjustments since the introduction of a new budget system so that such issues can be avoided in the
future.

Even during project preparation, it was realized that the availability of farm machinery for the farmers of
the rehabilitated subprojects would be necessary to achieve rapid production gains after the rehabilitation
of the I&D systems. As some of the farms went out of production prior to I&D rehabilitation, the farm
machinery of these farms had deteriorated drastically. Moreover, the farmers lacked capital and were not
able to obtain loans because of stringent requirements for collateral by the financing institutions (land could
not be mortgaged.)      After the mid-term review in October 1999, the need for farm machinery was
recognized by the Government, and it requested that IDIP loan funds be used to provide machinery to the
farmers of the rehabilitated subprojects, at subsidized terms. Unfortunately, the terms and mechanism on
how to provide farm machinery is a subject on which GOK and the Bank were not able to reach an
agreement. More efforts could have been made by GOK to address this issue through its ongoing program
of farm machinery financing or through the Bank financed Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance
Project (APPAP).




                                                    - 12 -

Also, an extension of the consultants' contract for the Agricultural Development Component could have
enhanced the project benefits further. Unfortunately, although efforts were made by Bank missions, no
agreement could be reached to revive this Component, in part because GOK linked the revival of this
Component to the provision of farm machinery from the project loan. Despite these various issues, the
Government remained very committed and actually did quite well in project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Particularly during the early years of the Project, the PIU was effectively managed by a very dynamic and
experienced engineer, quick to make decisions and instrumental in starting-up several subprojects. There
have been no factors subject to the control of the PIU that have affected project implementation. After the
PIU structure was dismantled and its staff was merged with MOA departments, the management efficiency
of the Consultants Group was lower than that of the PIU as the project staff had to seek many clearances
within the Ministry. However, this did not affect the implementation of already ongoing contracts or
subprojects, which were already designed and included in the program, but it dampened their initiatives for
starting additional subprojects with the available savings from the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total cost of the Project was estimated at US$117.88 million equivalent of which
US$80.00m was to be financed from the Bank loan, and the remaining US$37.88m was to be financed by
the Government of Kazakhstan. At completion, the project cost was US$97.7m of which US$72.46m was
financed from the Bank loan and US$25.24m was financed by the Government (see Annex 2 for details).
The unutilized loan amount of US$7.54m was cancelled at the time of project closing. The reasons for
under utilization of the loan funds was: (i) the ICB bidding procedure resulted in lower than planned cost of
rehabilitation for the subprojects; and (ii) cancellation of three subprojects (Kaisar in Aktobe Oblast,
Pastaev, and Saryozenski) from the final list of subprojects to be rehabilitated during project
implementation period due to their very high per hectare cost of rehabilitation. Given the cumbersome
budgetary and administrative procedures within the Government, as explained above, new subprojects were
not added to the Project. However, the unutilized amount of loan funds is lower than it would have been
because the disbursement rate for the civil works contracts was increased from 70% in the original Loan
Agreement to 80% during project implementation.

About 92% of the cost of the Project, both at appraisal and completion, was for rehabilitation of I&D
systems in various subprojects and remaining for agricultural component and institutional building. The
disbursements proceeded according to the original estimates without major lag. The financial management
system worked well under the projects. Payments were made to all contractors mostly on time with
exception of a few cases when project implementation was halted to address the WUA and cost recovery
issues. In addition to the GOK's contribution, a small amount of the rehabilitation costs were to be met by
the oblast governments. The oblasts' involvement often delayed the decision making for design and
contract management, particularly in making changes to the ongoing construction contracts.

Cost Recovery. Cost recovery has been central to the design of the Project and an important factor in its
evolution in its final form. The planned cost recovery was to ensure that the farmers would make a strong
commitment to the success of the Project while allowing them to make major decisions regarding the
desired scope and extent of the subproject rehabilitation works - which was exercised very well by the IDIP
farmers. However, the demanded level of capital cost recovery under the Project was unusually high when
compared to similar projects elsewhere in the world, where contributions of between 5% to 20% are
typical. For IDIP, GOK had required beneficiaries to repay 70% of the cost of rehabilitation/improvements
(without VAT) in 30 years, with a grace period of five years beginning from the date of signing of the cost
recovery agreement, prior to the commencement of rehabilitation works. The justification for such a high



                                                     - 13 -

recovery rate was that most of the I&D system rehabilitation works were assumed to be performed on the
on-farm level, considering the then existing state and collective farm structure and returns indicated
adequate margins to cover those amounts. However, the structure and delineation of on-farm and off-farm
works changed considerably when the farms were privatized during the project implementation period, as
many of the on-farm canals became off-farm canals and hence public works.

Immediately after the rehabilitation of the I&D systems, the farmers had to invest in farm machinery and
had many other necessary expenditures for starting their own farming operations and bringing the land
back into production. Also the start loan repayment after five years grace period form the signing of the
loan and not from completion of works made period of actual earnings too short. This limited the farmers'
ability to repay the loan for rehabilitation of I&D systems immediately after the subproject went into
operation, even though the incremental benefits from rehabilitation far exceeded the cost. Therefore, in
addition to the level of cost recovery, the terms of cost recovery should have been designed taking into
account the farmers' anticipated cash flow during post rehabilitation period, and particularly as they are
may be facing problems in securing credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The principal objective of the IDIP, restoring the productivity of irrigated lands, is highly likely to be
sustained. The private farmers in the rehabilitated subprojects are improving their farming practices every
year. Different and more profitable crops are being introduced. These farmers/owners are also improving
their response to the market economy, and their capacity to operate and maintain their on-farm I&D
systems. With the now reliable irrigation water supply and improved drainage conditions, some outside
investors are getting involved in the rehabilitated subprojects by making investments and growing
specialized crops. For example, in Shengeldy, a private company is investing in soybean production, in
Akkumsky in rice, and in "60 Years of October" a dairy plant is investing in fodder production. In most
subprojects there is shift towards high value crops, e.g. towards cotton in Maktaral, potato seed production
in Kaisar 2 (near Astana), and vegetables in most subprojects. This, together with higher income levels,
makes backtracking very unlikely.

The farmers/owners and WUAs are well organized, improving their capacity to operate and manage the
inter-farm I&D systems within the original state farm, and improving water management as indicated by
the estimates of water savings in the rehabilitated subprojects.

The capacity for planning and designing I&D investments is anticipated to improve further as GOK is
committed to support the program for rehabilitating irrigated lands. GOK has already allocated substantial
resources for this program. A second phase of IDIP is planned for implementation with World Bank
assistance and there are similar projects ongoing and in the pipeline with assistance from other donors
(such as ADB) and also from GOK's own resources. The achievements in institutional development and
the strengthening of irrigation and environmental agencies are likely to be enhanced further. The recent
reorganization of the I&D sector and its merger with the CWR, which is responsible for the major water
infrastructure, including main and inter-farm canals, and the increasing budgetary allocation for the O&M
of this infrastructure has further added impetus to the sustainability of the I&D sector and its institutions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Plans for the O&M of the rehabilitated subprojects were prepared during the detailed design phase and
updated after completion of the construction works, along with the engineering drawings of the systems as
built. The subprojects have competent technical staff for proper O&M and with the increasing profitability



                                                      - 14 -

of the subprojects and the healthy budgetary situation in Kazakhstan, O&M financing is not likely to be a
problem. Upon completion, the I&D systems were transferred to the farmers/owners and WUAs who
became responsible for O&M of the new inter-farm infrastructure within the former state farms. The I&D
systems remained under warranty for a one-year period during which the owners were already responsible
for O&M. The inspections at the end of the warranty period showed that the subprojects are running in
good condition. Some of the earliest completed subprojects are now already a few years in operation. The
increasing cropped area in these subprojects is an indicator of the proper O&M of the system. Also, with a
single agency, CWR, now responsible for management of the major I&D and large water infrastructure
(i.e. the whole water sector) there has been more interaction between the owners of the subprojects and the
Government agencies in addressing any technical issues which arise in O&M. CWR has the competence
and ability to continue I&D rehabilitation program in future. In conclusion, no serious difficulties are
experienced in transition to regular O&M of these subprojects by the farmers/owners.

The institutions involved in the planning and development of the I&D systems, including the national
consulting firms and contractors, now have increasing opportunities in Kazakhstan to participate in the
further rehabilitation of the I&D systems in the country. The remaining area that GOK is planning to
rehabilitate is large, potentially exceeding some 1.5 million ha. such a program would continue to enhance
the capacity of all institutions involved in the sector. GOK also has resources now to invest in such a
program.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory and actually crucial to the Project's
success. The preparation team was competent and balanced, and covered the necessary skills in agriculture,
economics, engineering, environment, and social sciences. The extensive experience of the team in
preparing and implementing irrigation, drainage and agricultural development projects worldwide was
likely the most important factor in the success of the Project.         The team worked closely with the
Government, attended to government priorities and experience, and contributed to best practices in
prioritizing subprojects, preparing feasibility studies, designs, EIAs, and institutional arrangements for
implementation and procurement. The team prepared excellent terms of reference (TOR) for the project
preparation consultants funded under a PHRD Grant, and subsequently for feasibility studies and detailed
designs financed using an advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The engineering consultant
recruited for project preparation and design performed very well. Due to thorough and detailed preparation
of several subprojects before loan approval and the proper design of institutional arrangements for
implementation, project implementation proceeded without any major hurdles. The project preparation led
to additional investment by ADB for rehabilitation of I&D systems in Maktaral region covering an area of
about 35,000 ha using the feasibility study carried out for the Maktaral subproject. Even though
Kazakhstan is fully capable of financing I&D system rehabilitation program itself, despite the relatively
higher cost of funds, has selected IDIP2 as one of the few loans it wants from the Bank because of the high
value GOK places on technical advice that comes with Bank financing. In retrospect, the Bank should have
found a way to either link a credit operation more closely with IDIP or provide the farmers of rehabilitated
subprojects with some capital to renew some of their farm machinery.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated satisfactory. The supervision was based on the standard practice of two
supervision missions per year. However, the intensity was increased during the 1999-2000 period when
project implementation was rated unsatisfactory. The missions were staffed with appropriate skills,
depending on the project implementation stage and expected issues. The supervision missions consisted of


                                                    - 15 -

expertise in engineering, economics, agriculture, financial management, procurement, social and
environmental, and operational issues. When necessary, the Sector Manager participated in the supervision
missions for discussions with high level officials in Government. The Bank responded to the requirements
of the Government quickly in order to resolve issues that may have otherwise created major problems in
project implementation, e.g. the need for increasing the disbursement rate; allowing advances to the civil
works contractors, and extension of the loan closing date by one year. During implementation the Bank
provided guidance about restructuring the PIU, issues related to capital cost recovery, development of
WUAs, technical advice on various aspects of I&D system rehabilitation, agricultural services, as well as
procurement and contract management. The Bank could have found a way and shown more flexibility in
accepting the Government's proposal on the terms for providing farm machinery using IDIP funds when it
was realized that farm machinery is essential for expediting the productivity gains from the rehabilitated
I&D systems.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory, with good project design backed by sound
supervision performance and follow up.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation in project preparation was satisfactory. This was the first donor funded
irrigation and drainage improvement project in the country. Initially, there were high expectations that large
amounts of funds would be provided quickly for carrying out rehabilitation works throughout the country.
In the early stages, GOK staff also had difficulties in using procedures that were different from those used
in the past, such as the Bank's requirements for recruitment of consultants and the application of strict
economic, social and environmental criteria in selection of subprojects. However, the PIU staff quickly
comprehended the concepts and coordination between the Bank and Government teams was excellent
during the preparation phase. Project preparation consultants played a crucial role in streamlining what
was initially a very complex project preparation exercise due to the new project preparation requirements,
an economy in transition, and the ongoing privatization of the farms. Especially the latter was having an
impact on the design concepts for the I&D systems of the subprojects and the envisaged structure for the
O&M organizations.

The PIU was headed by a very dynamic and experienced engineer with great management and people skills
and access to the upper tiers of Government, particularly to the Minister of Agriculture who trusted him
and had delegated him with the responsibility for dealing with the project issues. During the preparation
phase, the PIU was the main decision making body and thus it was quick in addressing the issues and
responding to the problems that kept project preparation on track. The experience of PIU staff was a great
asset in understanding the technical, environmental, social and institutional issues of subprojects spread
thousands of kilometers apart all over the country.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. In the initial stages of the Project,
decision making was quick and, as a result, the recruitment of consultants and the procurement of civil
work contracts proceeded very fast. This was helpful in setting the pace for project implementation to be
followed during the later years. In 1999, however, with changes in the MOA and GOK's decision to revert
back to a more conservative approach to cost recovery involving an agent bank on behalf of MOF, the
subprojects were required to sign complementary agreements on cost recovery. The implementation of
ongoing contracts was halted to ensure compliance with the revised procedures. Also, during this time the
MOA went through institutional reforms and decided to merge the PIU staff into the Ministry's



                                                    - 16 -

departments. This slowed implementation of the contracts initially but it appears to be proving beneficial in
the long run. After the restructuring issues were settled, the Government's response to address financial,
procurement, and administrative issues was again quick towards the later years of the Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance is rated satisfactory. In the early years of the Project, the PIU
was instrumental in quick project startup, development of WUAs, and the procurement and award of
contracts for construction of several subprojects. The implementing agency was efficient in monitoring the
Project's progress, addressing contractual issues and pursuing Government agencies such as MOA and
MOF for timely actions. Audits were completed on time and satisfactorily. However, in later years, after a
decision had been made to cancel a subproject and it had become obvious that the Project would have cost
savings, the implementation staff was slow in starting up the preparation of feasibility studies for additional
subprojects. The reasons behind this slow reaction are to some extent understandable and are explained in
Section 5.2. On balance the implementing agencies performance is considered satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

As demonstrated in this ICR, rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems is highly beneficial, indeed
crucial for improving the productivity of irrigated lands, generating employment, and increasing incomes.
Kazakhstan's irrigated area had reached more than 2 million hectares in the past (during late 1980s) and
then declined particularly after independence in 1991 during transition and economic restructuring. GOK
is committed to continue the rehabilitation/improvement of I&D systems over a substantial part of these
irrigated lands in line with its objective of diversifying and expanding the economy in the non-oil sectors.
With the implementation of this first project in the sector (which actually serves as a large scale pilot),
considerable experience has been gained and applying the lessons learned in future projects would make it
possible to accelerate the coverage of improved I&D systems with reduction in per hectare cost and
increases in the number of beneficiaries. Encouragingly, most of these lessons are being incorporated in the
development of a second phase of IDIP which is now under preparation and is anticipated to cover an area
of about 200,000 ha. The key lessons are summarized below:

Subproject Selection and Design. In order to maximize the benefits and returns to I&D rehabilitation
investments:

(a)     highest priority should be given to areas having more favorable agro-climatic conditions for
increasing crop productivity. The southern areas in South Kazakhstan, Kzyl Orda (in the Syr Darya
Basin), Dzhambul and possibly Almaty Oblasts with warmer weather and comprising large plains have a
comparative advantage in cropping activities over the northern areas as they offer possibilities for growing
higher value crops like cotton with export potential, and generating higher employment locally through the
processing of cotton and manufacturing of related products. The farm sizes in these areas are smaller and
the population density is higher so that I&D rehabilitation in this region would extend benefits to a large
number of the country's citizens;

(b)     lower cost I&D system rehabilitation works covering a large area and a large number of
beneficiaries should be selected. The gravity irrigation schemes in the south have relatively lower per
hectare cost as these systems are simpler and generally cover much larger areas. Addressing the
rehabilitation issues in these gravity based I&D systems first, would therefore further accelerate the areal



                                                      - 17 -

coverage and the number of people benefiting from these investments;

(c)      rehabilitation of I&D systems should not be seen in isolation from the rest of the agricultural
production process. Although I&D rehabilitation is a pre-condition for improving agriculture productin, a
series of other agricultural intrventions and processes are crucial before substantial productivity gains can
be realized from the rehabilited lands. Therefore, for project planning, a coherent integrated approach
should be adopted, which should include, inter alia, introduction of improved cropping practices, farmers'
extension/information services, training, business development, marketing, and provision of agricultural
machinery.    These issues were addressed in the IDIP, however, they need more emphasis in future
operations, particularly the issue of access to farm machinery by the farmers of the rehabilitated areas;

(d)      the project area should be concentrated around a few locations instead of spreading it over the
entire country which makes management more difficult and overhead costs in terms of consultants, staff,
operations and logistics, much higher;

(e)      The nature of a rehabilitation project is that the condition of an I&D system may change during the
time period from the date of preliminary project selection up to the actual start of construction. Selection
and pre-feasibility study, preparation of the feasibility study, designs, EIA, State Expertise, bidding
documents preparation, and actual bidding can take up to two years before the start of construction.
During this period infrastructure may, and often, deteriorate faster than expected or may be vandalized.
Also, farmers' requirements may change during that period particularly after seeing alternatives for
construction on the ground. In addition, it is often discovered during construction that certain items need
more repair than envisaged and other construction issues may arise as well for which solutions may need to
be found. Consequently, the designs, construction contracts, and budget allocations for the Project need to
be flexible enough to accommodate the inevitable changes required.

Development of Water Users' Associations. During IDIP preparation and startup, the Kazakhstan
economy and the agricultural sector went through a rapid transition. The land, input and output markets
and services are in the private sector and the growth of Kazakhstan's economy is accelerating. Despite
some existing uncertainties in land tenure arrangements, and in the legal and regulatory environment for
WUAs, the overall legal and regulatory environment has considerably improved in the country. The
formation of WUAs under the IDIP subprojects has been successful. The WUAs are playing an
increasingly important role in the O&M of the rehabilitated subprojects and will play a central role in the
institutional structure for implementing, maintaining and operating future I&D improvement projects.
Land rights have become complex since the breakup of the state and collective farms and this situation adds
to the time required for the organization of proper WUAs. The important work of supporting the WUAs
only really begins after I&D rehabilitation and can take a number of years. Therefore, adequate resources,
consulting services and time for technical assistance have to be provided under the Project to establish the
WUAs, as well as to provide them with support after I&D rehabilitation to startup the agricultural
production activities and arrange for proper O&M of the system. Consequently for this type of investment,
this would mean an implementation period longer than the usual five years.

Implementation/Organizational Arrangements. Incorporating the CWR into the MOA and transferring
I&D responsibility back to CWR has corrected a long standing institutional anomaly in the management of
the water sector in the country. The CWR, which was already responsible for major water infrastructure
and main canals, has more capacity than any other agency in the country to design and coordinate I&D
investments and deal with all issues related to irrigation projects and water distribution and management.
The CWR has its own technical capacity and is now responsible for the water sector as a whole and has
branches at the oblast and rayon level. CWR is, therefore, in a strong position to manage investments for


                                                      - 18 -

I&D system improvements, especially when aimed at accelerating the extent of rehabilitation in the country
and enhancing the sustainability through proper O&M afterwards.

Although future construction expenditures are estimated, the nature of construction work is such that there
are likely to be changes in the expenses incurred in a financial year. The construction work may proceed
faster (as was the case in some IDIP subprojects) or slower during a specific year depending upon the
contractor's capacity, the number of contracts it is handling at a given time and its organization. Therefore,
there should be greater flexibility in revising the Government's budget for the projects by allowing
appropriate revisions and reallocations among categories in order to respond to the subprojects' needs on
the ground. The annual budget for the Project should also include an adequate amount of contingencies to
cover any unforeseen developments during a financial year.

Due to various reasons mentioned above (in the Project Selection and Design Section), changes to the scope
of the Project are inevitable during the design and construction phases, requiring a more flexible and
streamlined approach to revising funding requirements and processing variation orders for construction
contracts.   Defining roles and responsibility upfront for the nature and scope of such changes and
delegating these to the maximum extent to the engineers and project managers in the field would ensure the
optimal outcome for I&D system improvement investments.

It is unrealistic to design a complex irrigation project with all of the issues outlined in the sections above
related to: (a) development of WUAs and follow up with them during initial years of operations of
subprojects; (b) meeting the requirements for detailed feasibility studies, EIA and social assessment
preparation, state technical and environment reviews, detailed designs, procurement of often complex
contracts; and (c) the construction period in the country which is limited to the summer season only. Also,
often, the timing of award of contract cannot be controlled. A contract designed for two years of
implementation, if awarded in winter as opposed to summer, would need to be extended till summer in
order to check all works for taking over and issuing the completion certificates. Similar adjustments would
be necessary for the defects liability period under the contract which should be within the project
implementation period in order to remove all defects and clear all payments. Therefore, projects of this
nature are likely to take 1-2 years longer than the standard implementation period of 4-5 years and this
should be considered in designing future projects.

Cost Recovery/Sharing. The lessons learned regarding cost recovery are that: (i) a rational approach
should be used for defining the on-farm and off-farm works. Unlike at the start of IDIP, this would now
be possible since all farms are privatized, ownership is more clear and the farms are already under
operation by private individuals; (ii) the Project should be designed to maximize the participation of the
farmers in the implementation of the on-farm works, which would normally result in a lower cost per
hectare for rehabilitation and thus cost recovery; (iii) the terms of the cost recovery, such as grace and
repayment periods, should be based on the farmers' cash flows after completion of rehabilitation and
additional investment needs; and (iv) a more streamlined process of cost contribution by the oblasts should
be adopted, such as deduction of the oblast's share by GOK at source from its financial contribution to the
oblast development projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's (MOA) full comments are given in Annex 9, and the main points are summarized here.
MOA endorses the findings, contents and conclusion of the ICR, and in its view the overall project
objectives were achieved. MOA also concurs with the satisfactory rating of the project outcome.



                                                     - 19 -

In its comments, the Borrower notes that the Project has made considerable contribution to socio-economic
development in the project area, including higher income and employment for the beneficiaries, as large
areas of agricultural lands were brought back under production. Also, in the project area crop yields have
increased, water use efficiency has improved and cost of water (particularly the energy use in pumped
schemes) has reduced. In addition to the technical/engineering component of the Project covering
rehabilitation of I&D systems, MOA rates highly the contributions of the agricultural and the institutional
development components of the Project, including impact of the demonstration plots, development of the
Water Code of Republic of Kazakhstan and Law of Republic of Kazakhstan on Agricultural Consumer
Cooperatives of Water Users, and establishment of hydro-amelioration expedition centers. The institutional
development and capacity building benefits are also confirmed by private institutions such as farm
managers, consulting firms, design institutes and construction industry.

The major issues MOA highlights, and lessons learned that can be incorporated in the future Project are in
line with the ICR team's findings:

                issues regarding financing of farm machinery to the farmers were not resolved during the
                 project implementation. Provision of farm machinery to farmers was essential for proper
                 operation of the farm activities.       As a result, the gains from agricultural production
                 activities are not at their potential levels, and consequently, the farmers are unable to fulfill
                 their obligation in repayment of the loans;
                selection of farms was not always in accordance with the agreed criteria in a few cases
                 because of political pressure, the local authorities had selected farms that were not highly
                 promising; and
                high cost of consultancy contract for detailed design and construction supervision that
                 constituted about 15% of the project cost, and that they were not always effective in
                 convincing the farmers to use new and progressive technical solution at the time of
                 subproject design and implementation of the construction process.

The comments conclude that the follow-up Project should take into consideration the lessons learned from
the current operation, and it should include improvement of irrigated agricultural land in the Southern and
Southeastern part of the country and should also assist in supporting rehabilitation efforts in farms close to
large cities and industrial centers to grow vegetables and produce dairy products in the other parts of the
country.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments on the Project were received from owners/farm managers of the two participating subprojects,
Kerbulak and Kaiser; Kazgiprovodkhoz Design Institute, now Kazakshtan's major private consulting
involved in design and construction supervision of water structures and irrigation and drainage networks;
Idil-Aksu, a large Kazakh construction company; and a Union of Water Users Associations established in
2001. The comments are generally very positive and a summary is presented below:

Kerbulak and Kaiser subprojects' managers explained that prior to project implementation particularly
between 1994-2002, the agricultural land in these subprojects was abandoned, and only after completion of
the I&D rehabilitation works, the land was brought back to cultivation. The Project provided with the most
fundamental element of farming, water through rehabilitation of the I&D system and therefore, in their
view the Project is highly successful. The Kaiser subproject has now become a major supplier of potatoes



                                                       - 20 -

and vegetables to the capital city, Astana. They also highlight that with provision of farm machinery to the
farmers of rehabilitated subprojects and initial working capital, the potential gains from the Project could
have been realized faster. In addition, Kaiser subproject manager supports the MOAs proposal to change
the repayment terms to start the grace period of the loan from completion of works instead of signing of the
agreement.

Director of Kazgiprovodkhoz, appreciates the business the Project generated for national consulting firms
at a time when Government-owned design institutes were in decline due to economic transition in
Kazakhstan. The Project has created demand for services of national consulting firms, and built their
capacity by familiarizing them with the international standards for construction design, the staff working
with the international counterparts.

The construction company Idil-Aksu Ltd commented that it has become stronger due to its participation in
the Project because of exposure to new technologies and ways of working. Idil-Aksu has become more
competitive, as it is now bidding and winning contracts independently as a main contractor for other
construction works.     Also, with regards to the Project they further mention that before choosing an
approach for rehabilitation, all alternatives should be studied and evaluated, especially the cost saving
technologies.

The union of WUAs established under the Project in 2001 under the name of "Public Fund for Union of
Ameliorators" is functioning as an independent entity with a main objective to protect farmers interest in
areas of irrigation, drainage and water management through participation in the Parliament. The Chairman
of the entity has provided a number of comments on how the Project provided with alternative ways of
managing the irrigation system at the local level. Under the Project the land was rehabilitated which was
out of production, and that farmers have greatly benefited from the training and farmers extension services
provided under the Project, so for these reasons, Public Fund for Union of Ameliorators rates the Project
very highly. They mention that the Project did not do enough for provision of farm machinery which is an
essential element of farming large tracks of land, and that they support MOAs proposal regarding the
changes in repayment terms of the loan i.e. starting grace period from completion of works.

10. Additional Information

See Annex 8.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Sustainable irrigated agricultural      At the time of project appraisal in 1995, a   Agricultural production has increased in the
production                                 logical framework was not developed for the   subprojects in which irrigation and drainage
                                           Project. Key monitoring indicators related to systems were rehabilitated.
                                           crop yields, and other outputs of the Project Increase in agricultural production has
                                           were entered in the PSR and monitored time resulted from three sources : (i) increase in
                                           to time during supervision missions. These    irrigated land cropped area has doubled from
                                           indicators were not based on a well           15,000 ha before project to 32,000 with
                                           developed logical frame matrix like this one. project ; (ii) increase in crop yields; and (iii)
                                                                                         shift in cultivation of high value crops.
                                           However, the Project outcome was assessed
                                           during the last supervision mission based on Crop yield increase ranges between 12-200%
                                           the available data collected as part of the   for various crops in various subproject
                                           Government's own monitoring program. It       compared to an appraisal estimate of
                                           was indicated in the PSR the Project would    20-100%. . About 70% of the increase in
                                           achieve its development objective, which      production has resulted from an increase in
                                           includes an increase in agricultural          irrigated land and the remaining 30% from an
                                           production, income and employment for the     increase in crop yields.
                                           farmer, decrease in water use for agriculture
                                           and institutional development. The last PSR The Project Economic Rate of Return is 32%
                                           also contains several output indicators that  exceeding the appraisal estimate of 27%. In
                                           are indicated in the output section below.    subprojects with higher individual ERRs, the
                                                                                         shift in growing high value crops are high,
                                                                                         such as cotton, soybeans, sunflowers, potato
                                                                                         and vegetables.
                                                                                         As described in Section 6 of ICR on
                                                                                         sustainability the increased production levels
                                                                                         are highly likely to be sustained in the future.

2. Increased employment                                                                  After rehabilitation of I&D systems about
                                                                                         6,622 people are directly employed in
                                                                                         agricultural activities, this is estimated to
                                                                                         increase to more than 8,700 at full
                                                                                         development.
3. Improved water management as reflected                                                On average, the Project has resulted in
by water savings                                                                         savings of 1,300 cubic meter of water per
                                                                                         hectare annually. Water savings are more in
                                                                                         subprojects with gravity irrigation systems
                                                                                         compared to the ones with pumped systems.
                                                                                         However, in the schemes with pumped
                                                                                         irrigation system there are substantial energy
                                                                                         savings and in average they amount to about
                                                                                         1,000 Kwh (or US$40) annually.

4. Introduction of improved agricultural                                                 Diversification in crops, increased yields, and
practices                                                                                involvement of investors in the subprojects
                                                                                         with rehabilitated I&D systems indicates the
                                                                                         achievement of this objective.
4. Institutional Development                                                             The Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) capacity
                                                                                         was strengthened in areas of (i) planning,
                                                                                         design and construction supervision of
                                                                                         irrigation and drainage projects; (ii) financial
                                                                                         management and procurement; (iii)
                                                                                         construction material testing, quality control
                                                                                         and contract management; and (iv) more
                                                                                         importantly the environmental capacity of the
                                                                                         Ministry was strengthened by the
                                                                                         establishment of a unit within the Ministry,
                                                                                         modernization of 3 regional
                                                                                         hydro-amelioration expedition centers and the
                                                                                         establishment of one additional center in the
                                                                                         city of Astana.




                                                              - 22 -

                                                                                 In addition staff gained considerable
                                                                                experience in Environmental Impact
                                                                                Assessment and preparation of State
                                                                                Ecological Expertise (SEE) and SEE
                                                                                procedures were harmonized. Furthermore,
                                                                                the capacity of Water Users Associations
                                                                                (WUA) were strengthened through training
                                                                                and on the job experience in Operation and
                                                                                Maintenance of the I&D systems.

                                                                                Beside MOA, and WUA, the capacity of
                                                                                various engineering design institutes in
                                                                                sub-project design and the capacity of
                                                                                construction firms in subproject construction
                                                                                was strengthened. This impact is very
                                                                                obvious in the construction industry today in
                                                                                Kazakhstan.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Irrigated area rehabilitated             30,000 ha.                          32,282 ha.
2. Agricultural Training
       2.1 Farmers' Training                                                    4
           * Training Days                  46,000                              6,000
           * No. of Courses                 350                                 350
           * Demonstration in               10 (sub-projects)                   in 10 subprojects
             Sub-projects
3. Environmental Training & Seminars
     3.1 Environmental Harmonization        1 No.                               1
          Seminar
     3.2 Environmental Training Activities  17 Nos.                             17 Nos.
4. Increase in crop yields                  about the same as actual            12%-200%
5. Water Savings                            about the same as actual            1,300 cubic meter per hectare annually
6. Energy Savings                           about the same as actual            1000 Kwh per hectare annually (US$40)

1End of project




                                                             - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             Appraisal            Actual/Latest              Percentage of
                                                                                             Estimate                Estimate                   Appraisal
                                 Component                                                 US$ million             US$ million
Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation                                                        108.14                       90.19                      83
Agricultural Development                                                                          2.27                       2.12                     93
Institutional Building                                                                            5.93                       4.46                     75
Refinancing PPF                                                                                   1.50                       0.93                     62

Total Baseline Cost                                                                           117.84                       97.70
                                     Total Project Costs                                      117.84                       97.70
                          Total Financing Required                                            117.84                       97.70
Note: Appraisal estimates are tabuleted as total cost instead of base costs as they provide real comparison with the actual costs at completion.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          1
                                                                         Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                             ICB                      NCB                          2               N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                                     Other
1. Works                                             95.98                      3.02                  0.00                     0.00               99.00
                                                   (60.88)                    (2.00)                 (0.00)                  (0.00)              (62.88)
2. Goods                                              1.29                      0.00                  2.29                     0.00               3.58
                                                     (1.07)                   (0.00)                 (1.90)                  (0.00)               (2.97)
3. Services                                           0.00                      0.00                 12.65                     0.00               12.65
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                (12.65)                  (0.00)              (12.65)
4. PPF Refinancing                                    0.00                      0.00                  1.50                     0.00               1.50
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                 (1.50)                  (0.00)               (1.50)
5. PIU Operation                                      0.00                      0.00                                           1.13               1.13
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                 (0.00)                  (0.00)               (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                      0.00                      0.00                  0.00                     0.00               0.00
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                 (0.00)                  (0.00)               (0.00)
    Total                                            97.27                      3.02                 16.44                     1.13              117.86
                                                   (61.95)                    (2.00)                (16.05)                  (0.00)              (80.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         1
                                                                        Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                             ICB                     NCB                          2               N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                                    Other
1. Works                                             81.51                      0.00                 0.00                    0.00                81.51
                                                   (57.56)                    (0.00)                (0.00)                  (0.00)              (57.56)
2. Goods                                              0.00                      0.45                 0.13                    0.00                0.58
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.39)                (0.11)                  (0.00)               (0.50)
3. Services                                          12.31                      0.00                 0.83                    0.00                13.14
                                                   (12.31)                    (0.00)                (0.69)                  (0.00)              (13.00)
4. PPF Refinancing                                    0.00                      0.00                 0.00                    0.93                0.93
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                (0.00)                  (0.93)               (0.93)


                                                                          - 24 -

   5. PIU Operation                         0.00               0.00              1.07                               1.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.47              0.47
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.47)           (0.47)
       Total                                93.82              0.45              2.03             1.40             97.70
                                           (69.87)            (0.39)            (0.80)            (1.40)           (72.46)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Irrigation and Drainage        72.00        34.10                    67.08         23.08                 93.2      67.7
Rehabilitation
Agricultural Development        2.30         0.00                     1.96         0.18                  85.2      0.0
Institutional Building          4.20         3.70                     2.49         1.98                  59.3      53.5
Refinancing PPF                 1.50         0.00                     0.93         0.00                  62.0      0.0




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

This economic analysis was carried out following the same methodology used at the time of project
appraisal. Crop budgets were prepared for each crop and farm models were developed for each subproject
simulating three following scenarios: (a) without project (WOP) representing the production conditions
prior to start of the rehabilitation of I&D systems; (b) with project 2004 (WP2004) representing production
condition as in 2004 after rehabilitation of I&D systems. Currently, different subprojects are at different
levels of development. The subprojects where rehabilitation started during the first year of the project
implementation (such as Shengaldy, Kzyl Agash etc.) have achieved higher levels of production compared
to those which were completed later and especially those completed in 2003; and (c) with project future
(WPF), representing production conditions assuming full level of development about four years in the
future. Estimation of this scenario is necessary because prior to the start of rehabilitation works, the
condition of farms was considerably deteriorated, cropped area was reduced and some farm areas went out
of production. As a result, for most of the rehabilitated farms, 2004 is the first or second year of
production, so the crop yields are to increase further, as productivity of land increases with each production
cycle, and as farmers are investing in improved farm technologies, such as better seeds, fertilizer and
chemicals, and farm machinery for operation and management of their farms. Incremental benefits for the
Project were estimated using these models and the results were incorporated in the calculation of ERR.
The details are provided below.

Project Costs.

Project costs, their breakdown by subprojects and per hectare cost are provided below in Table 1. The
economic costs were estimated by subtracting the taxes and duties and applying standard conversion
factors. As project costs occurred during different years of project implementation, all costs were in
addition converted to 2004 prices which is the base year for the project costs as well as for the estimated
project benefits. In addition, incremental operation and maintenance (O&M) costs were estimated for each
subproject and included in their respective ERR estimations. The project cost primarily consists of the cost
of construction of I&D rehabilitation works in the subprojects. Other costs include the engineering designs
and construction supervision, project management, the agricultural component and institutional
development component.

Project Benefits.

The project benefits have primarily resulted from increased agricultural production. These were estimated
using crop budgets for each crop and farm models for each subproject under three scenarios, WOP,
WP2004 and WPF. Incremental agriculture benefits come from increase in crop yields, increase in
cropping areas and shifts to high value crops. The cropped area has doubled i.e. increased from 15,111 ha.
WOP to 32,282 ha with project. About 70% of the benefits are due for an increase in cropped area and
about 30% is due for an increase in crop yields. Shift towards higher value crops is significant in most
subprojects but more pronounced in Maktaral towards cotton, in Shengeldy towards vegetables and
soybeans, and in Kaisar 2 towards potatoes.




                                                     - 26 -

                                  Table 1: Project Costs (Million KZT)

                                                 Actual       Economic       Actual       Economic
              Sub-Project            Total        Costs          Costs        costs     Costs Per ha
                                     Area                         2004       Per ha
                                   Hectares                      Prices
        Shengeldy                    2,368        534.2          700.4        0.23           0.30
        Kzylagash                    1,420        538.2          633.6        0.38           0.45
       Akkumski                      1,034        305.7          359.1        0.30           0.35
       Maktaral                      9,936        914.6         1036.7        0.09           0.10
       Prirechny                     1,574        486.5          453.7        0.31           0.29
       Zhambul                       1,114        482.2          462.9        0.43           0.42
       60 Years of October           3,574       1,299.1        1139.4        0.36           0.32
       Kerbulak                      2,915        856.8          781.1        0.29           0.27
       Kaisar 2                      1,170        462.6          420.8        0.40           0.36
       Chaganski/Zalik               1,187        756.0          675.6        0.64           0.57
       Kurchum                       3,217       1,373.0        1239.4        0.43           0.39
       Krasnaya Polyana                915        359.2          335.7        0.39           0.37
       Darkhan                         867        435.9          356.2        0.50           0.41
       Dusupov                         991        426.0          348.1        0.43           0.35
        Other costs                              1,594.51      1,270.41
       Total                        32,282       10,824.5      8,942.70       0.29           0.28

Crop yield increases after rehabilitation of I&D systems vary from subproject to subproject depending on
how long they have been under cultivation after rehabilitation and their specific agro-climatic conditions.
Actual yield data for each subproject was gathered after project completion and was used in the economic
analysis. Crop yields and comparison with the assumptions at appraisal stage are summarized in Table 2.
As there are 15 schemes spread over a wide geographic area, the yields are not represented by a single
number, rather by a range for each scenario. The crop yield increases observed at completion are higher
than the appraisal estimates. Actual increases range between 12-200% compared to the appraisal estimate
of 20-139%.

Table 2 also shows that crop yields assumed for "Before Project" scenario at appraisal were much higher
than those observed just before the start of I&D rehabilitation. The reason for this is that the appraisal
estimates are as of 1995 while the ICR estimates are just before the start of I&D rehabilitation. Also after
1995, farm privatization progressed faster than expected, the I&D systems deteriorated much further than
expected, farm machinery stocks were completely depleted, and large farm areas were virtually abandoned.
Thus, production conditions in the subprojects were much worse just before the start of the I&D
rehabilitation than those assumed at appraisal in 1995. For most of the rehabilitated farms, 2004 is the
first or second year of production, so the crop yields are still increasing, as productivity of land increases
with each production cycle, and as farmers are investing in better farm technologies, such as better seeds,
farm machinery, fertilizer, for better operation and management of their farms. At this stage, (WP2004)
yields levels estimated for "After Project" during appraisal have been achieved in many cases. However,
in some cases where rehabilitation of I&D has just been completed, the yield increases will still continue.
Similarly, increase in cropped areas in various subprojects is continuing. However, for WPF scenario
representing the production conditions at full development, the yield increases assumed are very modest.


                                                    - 27 -

                                Table 2: Crop Yield (Tons Per Hectare)

                         At ICR                                 At Appraisal
                         Crops              Before Project - With Project 2004 - With Project
                                            Future - Before Project - After Project
                         Wheat              0.8  1.51.5 - 2.02.5 - 3.02.44
                       Soybeans             Not grown 0.4 -1.62.0 - 2.51.52.5 -2.8
                         Maize              1.2 -22.5 - 3.54.03.66.3 - 6.5
                          Rice              3.34.35.04.55.2
                         Cotton             1.5  1.82.03.02.73.2
                       Buckwheat            Not grown 0.5 - 1.21.7 - 2.0New crop New crop
                         Potato             4.0 - 12.312.0 - 15.019.0 - 20.01115 -20
                       Vegetables           7.0 - 16.019.0 - 22.522  2517.830
                      Maize Silage          11  12.320302530-40
                       Sunflower            Not grown 0.4 - 1.62 New crop New crop
                         Melons             7.5  1515-19.519  209.215 -22
                       Sugar Beet           15.519.820  222835
                    Alfalfa Mature          0.1-3.65.5 - 7.38.7-1066-9

Other project benefits include substantial reduction in water use for irrigation in both gravity and pump
schemes. The water savings in gravity schemes particularly in Maktaral, Akkumsky and Kurchum are
substantial. On average, the annual water savings are estimated at about 1300 cubic meters per hectare.
Some of the water savings would be utilized within the subproject area for increasing the cropping area.
However, in some cases, the saved water would be more than required within the subproject, so it would
benefit other areas as well as meeting the environmental demands. For example water saved in Akkumsky
could be diverted to Syr Darya delta lakes and /or the Northern Aral Sea. These benefits have not been
quantified. In case of pumped irrigation systems, there are substantial savings in energy use (Annex 8,
Table 3), these benefits have been quantified and included in ERR estimates.

                                Table 3: Employment in Farming Sector
                              Persons Directly Employed in each Subproject

                          Sub-Project                    Number of Jobs
                     Shengeldy                                  493
                   Kzylagash                                    352
                    Akkumski                                    136
                    Maktaral                                   4795
                    Prirechny                                   298
                   Zhambul                                      325
                   60 Years of October                          506
                   Kerbulak                                     230
                   Kaisar 2                                     232
                   Chaganski/Zalik                              214
                   Kurchum                                      564



                                                   - 28 -

                     Krasnaya Polyana                            218
                     Darkhan                                     192
                      Dusupov                                    231
                      Total                                     8,786

Moreover, the Project has already created direct employment for more than 6,600 people in farming
activities; this is expected to increase to 8,786 people at full development (see Table 3 for breakdown by
subproject). Employment covers various skills such as agronomists, engineers, mechanics, farm machinery
operators, unskilled workers and seasonal labor. The secondary impact of direct employment by the Project
has not been estimated.

Economic Analysis.

The Project ERR at completion is estimated at 32% compared to an estimate of 27% at appraisal. The
ERRs for individual subprojects range from 12% to 23% with the exception of Maktaral subproject that
has an ERR of 51%. ERR for each subproject and comparison with appraisal or feasibility study estimates
is given in Table 5. The ERR reflects diverse characteristics of each individual scheme and their cost of
rehabilitation. Maktaral ERR is very high owing to favorable agro-climatic conditions for growing cotton
which is a high value crop. The net present value, discounted at 10% over a period of 25 years is
KZT18,577.67 million.

The ERRs are generally higher for subprojects in southern oblasts and those with lower per hectare costs.
Also, generally schemes with gravity irrigation system and large irrigated areas have a higher ERR than
those of the pumped schemes. The exception is Shengeldy which is located in the southern part of the
country, close to Almaty and where the farmers are growing vegetables and soybeans. In addition, pumped
schemes, such as `Prirechniye' has better than average ERR because of diverse crops, including vegetables,
and have a relatively lower cost of rehabilitation.

                                     Table 4: Economic Rate of Return

       Scheme             Location          Type of       ERR at         ERR       Post Project
                                           Irrigation    Appraisal     Feasibility     ERR
                                                                         Study
 Shengeldi              Southeast              PD           37%                         23%
 Kzylagash              East                   GR           18%                         18%
 Akkumski             South                    GR           18%                         19%
 Maktaral             South                    GR                        20%            51%
 Prirechniye          Northeast                PS           33%                         17%
 Zhambul              Southeast                GR           42%                         13%
 60 years             Middle-East              PS           15%                         13%
 Kerbulak             Southeast                PS                       12.4%           12%
 Kaiser               Middle North             PS                       12.6%           15%
 Chiganski/Zahik      Northwest                PS                       13.1%           12%
 Kurchum              East                     GR                       12.5%           12%
 Krasnaya Polyana Middle North                 PS           26%                         12%
 Darkhan              Southeast                GS                       13.3%           16%
 Dusupova             Northwest                PS                        12.2%          13%
 Overall Project                                            27%                         33%

                                                    - 29 -

PD Pumped with water distribution through pipelines and concrete flume (covering an area of 2,368 ha)
PS Pumped with sprinklers (12,326 ha)
GR Gravity intake and distribution through canals or concrete flumes (16,721 ha)
GS is gravity with distribution through sprinklers (867 ha)




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/1992                2    MISSION CHIEF                    S               S
                                             (ECONOMIST) (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (I)
              02/08/1993                2    MISSION CHIEF (IRRIG (1);        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              9/11/1993                 2    MISSION CHIEF (IRRIG) (1);       S               S
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/05/1995                7    MISSION CHIEF (ECON)             S               S
                                             (1); IRRIGATION
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST(1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             CONSULTANT
                                             (COST/FINANCE) (1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1)

 Supervision

              03/26/1997                6    MISSION CHIEF (IRRIG) (1);       S               S
                                             IRRIGATION AGRONOMY (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENCE (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             IRRIGATION (1)
              12/15/1997                4    MISSION CHIEF (IRRIG) (1);       S               S
                                             IRRIGATION (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENCE (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             (1)
              05/26/1998                3    MISSION L. (IRRIG) (1);          S               S
                                             AGRONOMY (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENCE (1)
              10/13/1998                3    MISSION L. (IRRIG) (1);          S               S
                                             AGRONOMY (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENCE (1)
              05/10/1999                3    IRRIGATON (1); AGRONOMY          S               S
                                             (1); SOCIAL SCIENCE (1)
              03/09/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             RESOURCE ECONOMIST (1)
              05/29/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S



                                              - 31 -

                                           RESOURCE ECONOMIST (1);
                                           IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
               12/01/2000              5   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                           (1); SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                           ENGINEER (CONSULTANT)
                                           (1)
               06/20/2001              3   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (2)
               03/15/2002              4   WATER RESOURCES (1);               S    S
                                           ECONOMIST (1); IRIGATION
                                           ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                           ANALYST (1)
               06/03/2003              5   TTL, WATER RESOURCE (1);           S    S
                                           ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT (1)
               01/05/2004              2   TTL WATER RESOURCE SPL             S    S
                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1)
               05/19/2004              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S


 ICR
               11/08/2004             2     MISSION CHIEF (WATER              S    S
                                            RESOURCES
                                            SPECIALIST) (1);
                                            OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER/ECONOMIST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           118.8                         866.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 69.8                         241.9
  Supervision                          222.1                         910.9
  ICR                                   14.6                           47.8
  Total                                425.3                        2067.2




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Studies and Feasibility Reports

Pre-Feasibility Studies for all Subprojects
Feasibility Studies for all subproject
Environmental Impact Assessment of all subprojects
Business plans for 10 subprojects, a total of 17 business plans
Operational Plans for all Subprojects
Study for Transferring Irrigation Management for a Typical Canal Command Area
Final Report of the Management and Engineering Consultancy Services Contract
Reports and data tables prepared by the MOA as part of GOK's project completion report.
Report on "Pure Drainage Water in the Shengeldi Farm community"

Monitoring Reports

Quarterly Progress Reports on implementation of Component 1 rehabilitation of I&D systems
Quarterly Progress Reports on Agricultural Component
Progress Report and Strategy for implementation of Agricultural Component, Participatory Training and
Information Services Pilot Program.
IDIP, Management and Engineering Component, Studies and Design Stage Final Report (April 1997-April
2000)

Documentary video, showing construction progress on various subprojects and interviews with farmers,
owners, and WUA representative on project impact.




                                                   - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Information about the Subproject

The list of subprojects rehabilitated under the Project is given in Table 1. The subprojects which were
studied but their rehabilitation was not undertaken for various reasons are listed in Table 2. Table 3
provides estimates of water and energy savings by subprojects. Finally, a brief description of each
subproject, rehabilitation works undertaken, and changes made during construction period are also
provided in the sections below.
                                  Table 1: List of subprojects implemented
  Name of Sub-project          Contract              Oblast              Area (ha)      Type of Scheme
   (contract number)           Number
1.      Shengeldy            IDIP 02         Almaty                        2,368               PD
2.      Kzyl-Agash           IDIP 03         Almaty                        1,420               GR
3.      Maktaral             IDIP 04         South Kazakhstan              9,936               GR
4.      Akkumsky             IDIP 04         Kzyl-Orda                     1,034               GR
5.      Prirechny            IDIP 05         East Kazakhstan               1,574               PS
6.      Dzhambul             IDIP 06         Zhambul                       1,114               GR
7.      Kurchum              IDIP 07         East Kazakhstan               3,217               GR
8.      Krasnaya             IDIP 08         Karaganda                      915                PS
Polyana 9.      60 Years IDIP 09             Pavlodar                      3,574               PS
of October
10.     Chaganski            IDIP 10         West Kazakhstan                565                PS
11.     Zhaik                IDIP 10         West Kazakhstan                622                PS
12.     Kaisar 2             IDIP 12         Akmola                        1,170               PS
13.     Kerbulak             IDIP 13         Almaty                        2,915               PS
14.     Darkhan A            IDIP 15         Almaty                         867                GS
15.     Dusupova             IDIP 16         West Kazakhstan                991                PS
                                 Total               32,282
PD- Pumped with water distribution through pipelines and concrete flume (covering an area of 2,368 ha)
PS- Pumped with sprinklers (12,326 ha)
GR- Gravity intake and distribution through canals or concrete flumes (16,721 ha)
GS- Gravity with distribution through sprinklers (867 ha)

                       Table 2: Subprojects studied but deleted from the program
                                                         Original                       Notes
 Name of Sub-project                   Oblast              Design
                                                         Area (ha)
1. Patsaev                     Aktobe                        627        Per ha cost was too high
2. Company Ltd Kaisar          Aktobe                        697        The owner was not interested
3. Astra                       Karaganda                    1,880       Could be implemented in future
4. Saryozenski                 Kostanai                      850        Oblast gov. was not agreeable
5. Pritobolskoye               Kostanai                      950        Owner was not interested
6. Nura                        Akmola                       1,500       Environmental Problems
7. Mirny                       Karaganda                    1,302       Economic cost of supplied pumped
                                                                        water too high
8. Kuigenzhar                  Akmola                        900        Land was not privatized
9. Ardager                     Kzyl Orda                     250        Did not meet criterion of being
                                                                        previous irrigated land
                       Total            8,006


                                                      - 36 -

                           Table 3: Typical Annual Savings in Water Use


 Contract         Sub-project Name           Annual Water Saving          Annual Power Saving
 Number                                            (`000m3)                     (`000 kWh)

IDIP 02       Shengeldy                           1890-2520                    2,740-3,660
IDIP 03       Kzyl-Agash                          1780-2380                n/a  gravity system
IDIP 04       Maktaral                            6950-9260                n/a  gravity system
IDIP 04       Akkumsky                            4500-6000                n/a  gravity system
IDIP 05       Prirechny                           1150-1540                    1080  1430
IDIP 06       Dzhambul                            2500-3340                n/a  gravity system
IDIP 07       Kurchum                             5300-7000                n/a  gravity system
IDIP 08       Krasnaya Polyana                      630-840                       510-680
IDIP 09       60 Years of October                 1900-2540                     3500-4700
IDIP 10       Changanski/                           390-520                       320-420
              Zhaik                                 420-560                       350-460
IDIP 12       Kaisar 2                              620-830                       580-770
IDIP 13       Kerbulak                            1180-2660                     1180-1570
IDIP 15       Darkhan A                             590-790                       480-650
IDIP 16       Dusupova                              680-900                       550-740
      Total         30,480-41,680                11,290-15,080



                                  Description of Subprojects Rehabilitated

Shengeldy

The Shengeldy subproject is located in Almaty Oblast. Under this subproject, an area of 2,368 ha. was
rehabilitated. Distinctive features of the subproject were the reconstruction of the pumping station, an
extensive irrigation flume distribution network and a buried drainage network. The rehabilitation works
comprised the following: (a) rehabilitation of the existing pumping station, including the replacement of 6
pumps (with capacities from 350 to 825 l/s and pressure heads from 45 to 72 m); (b) installation of
concrete pipe, diameter 800 mm, 1.02 km in length, and steel pipe, 3, 834 km in length; (c) rehabilitation
and replacement of the existing open flume network, rehabilitation of a length of 2.15 km and replacement
of a length of 5.27 km; (d) land planning and levelling, comprising 302, 000 m3 earthworks; (e)
installation of horizontal underground drains over an area of 310 ha, including closed collectors of 150 to
300 mm diameter and 10.4 km of field drains, 125 mm in diameter; and (f) leaching of 12 ha of saline
lands.

To improve the irrigation scheme, remedy certain design deficiencies and also in response to farmers'
requests the works were subject to a number of changes, including: (a) additional monitoring wells; (b)
replacement of part of the distribution flume networks with underground reinforced concrete pipes; and (c)
an increase in the length of the flume network.




                                                   - 37 -

Kzyl Agash

The Kzyl Agash subproject, located in Almaty Oblast, comprised the rehabilitation of irrigation systems
over an area of 1,400 ha. The distinctive features of this subproject were the construction of a water intake
structure on the mountainous Kzyl Agash River, a gravity flow irrigation system and a buried drainage
network. The following works were carried out: (a) completion of the partially constructed diversion on the
Kzyl Agash River; (b) completing the main and secondary supply pipelines over 7.57 km (diameter
800-1400 mm); (c) constructing the main distribution network, 12.79 km (diameter 300-800 mm); (d)
constructing an irrigation network of buried distributors and hydrants, 33.38 km (diameter 200-400 mm);
(e) land grading and smoothing, 44 017 m3 of cut; (f) provision of gated pipe irrigation equipment; and (g)
installation of a surface drainage network including the outlet scheme.

To improve the irrigation scheme, remedy certain design deficiencies and also following farmers' requests,
the Kzyl Agash site was subject to a number of changes, including: (a) irrigation pipelines from asbestos
pipes were replaced by steel pipes; (b) the irrigation scheme layout was fundamentally changed; (c) the
diameters of main pipelines were increased; and (d) the quantities of works decreased as a result of the
irrigation scheme change.

Maktaral

The Maktaral subproject, located in South Kazakhstan Oblast, covers 9,936 ha of irrigated land. The area
is made up of a large number of small farms almost exclusively growing cotton. The scheme is
characterized by open channel irrigation and drainage but with also a series of vertical drainage wells.
Rehabilitation works included: (a) irrigation and drainage rehabilitation and improvement (9,607 ha); (b)
canal rehabilitation (191 km) including associated structures; (c) collector drain cleaning (160 km)
including associated structures; (d) installation of vertical drainage wells (57), including their electrical
power supply, and; (e) rehabilitation of existing roads (328 km). To improve the irrigation scheme, remedy
design deficiencies and also following farmers' requests, a number of changes were implemented. Overall,
project costs reduced by some 16% resulting from the deletion of some works such as flow meters, roads
and canal lining, while other changes did not affect the costs.

The design of the vertical drainage wells introduced new and up to date technology to Kazakhstan. The
design allowed smaller diameter, more corrosion resistant wells to be used with lower power consumption.
However, this raised problems as the standards and norms in use at the time did not cover such new
technology. Concerns were therefore raised that the wells would not meet design standards. It required
much protracted technical discussion and a series of trial wells to demonstrate the success of the new
design.

Akkumsky

The Akkumsky subproject area, located in Kzyl-Orda Oblast, covered 1,014 ha. and is primarily used for
the growing of rice. The rehabilitation works concentrated on the rehabilitation of open canals and drains.
The works included: (a) irrigation and drainage rehabilitation and improvement over 1,034 ha; (b) canal
rehabilitation (52 km) including associated structures; (c) collector drain cleaning (63 km), including
associated structures, and ; (d) rehabilitation of existing roads (44 km). No major changes were made in the
scope of works during implementation.




                                                      - 38 -

Prirechny

The Prirechny subproject is located in the East Kazakhstan Oblast. The rehabilitation works comprised an
area of 1,574 ha. The distinctive features of this subproject are the construction of a pumping station, new
antechamber, an extensive irrigation flume distribution network and installation of new and rehabilitation of
existing center pivots (overhead irrigation sprinklers) of the Russian Fregat type. The following works were
carried out: (a) rehabilitation and extension of a pumping station, including the replacement of
electro-mechanical equipment; (b) supply and installation of 30 km of new pipelines: 200 mm to 1000 mm
in diameter; (c) supply and installation of 7 new center pivots on 235 ha; (d) rehabilitation of 17 existing
center pivots on 1,275 ha; (e) rehabilitation and installation of solid set irrigation systems on 85 ha, and;
associated works, including land-levelling and road grading.

The water supply to the fields under the original design was provided by two existing main pipelines: 1
MTR and 2 MTR both 1,000 mm in diameter. Main pipeline 1 MTR with total length of 1,360 m, and
main pipeline 2 MTR with total length of 2,140 m. Already before the start of the construction contract,
the maintenance of the pipelines had become a real problem because of frequent breaks. The farmer
therefore requested an investigation of the condition of the pipelines. The results revealed that these
pipelines needed rehabilitation and a decision was made to do so. Also, following the farmer's request to
minimize maintenance and power costs, the decision was also made to change seven high pressure Fregats
to low pressure.

Dzhambul

The rehabilitation works for the Dzhambul subproject, located in Zhambul Oblast, covered an irrigated
area of 1, 114 ha. Crops grown are primarily wheat, barley, maize and sugar beet. The rehabilitation
works were characterized by the replacement of concrete flumes, rehabilitation of unlined canals, the
installation of sub-surface drains and the rehabilitation of existing collector drains. The works included: (a)
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation and improvement on 1,114 ha; (b) 12 km of precast flume canal and
19 km of unlined canal, including associated structures; (c) 11 km of subsurface perforated PVC drains
and 19 km of collector drains, including associated structures; and (d) other works include 875 ha of land
levelling; 30 km of farm roads; leaching; and 17 km of forest shelterbelts. The only significant change in
the works was related to the design of the irrigation and drainage system around Kok Tobe village.

Kurchum

This Kurchum subproject, located in East Kazakhstan Oblast, comprised the rehabilitation of irrigation
systems over an area of 3, 217 ha. The distinctive features of this subproject are the construction of a water
intake structure on a mountainous river, a large quantity of land levelling works, earthworks on canals and
drainage collectors, and works on earth canals and concrete lined canals. The following works were carried
out: (a) river intake rehabilitation; (b) rehabilitation and construction of lined canals (41 km); (c)
rehabilitation and construction of unlined canals (57 km); (d) land levelling on 1,800 ha; (e) collector
drainage network (56 km); (f) field drains (59 km); (g) graded farm roads (126 km); and (h) shelter belts
(39 km).

Following the farmers' request the irrigation scheme was partially changed. Also, the spring floods of 2001
seriously damaged several structures and completely destroyed the water intake structure on Kurchum
River. Hence, the decision was made to: (a) rehabilitate the water intake and associated structures; (b)
clean the main canal "Zhavgastinsky"; and (c) improve the conditions of the water intake.



                                                     - 39 -

In addition, following the contractor's recommendations, it was agreed to change  without any cost
increase - the intended monolithic concrete canal lining included in the construction contract into lining with
prefabricated reinforced concrete slabs. As the precast slabs were factory produced, this has resulted in a
high quality, more durable and frost resistant lining, which is particularly important in this part of the
country where the winters are long and severe. The main advantage of this design change for the contractor
has been the savings in time as the prefabricated slabs could be installed quickly during a short
construction season.

Krasnaya Polyana

Krasnaya Polyana subproject is located in Karaganda Oblast a short distance from the city of Karaganda.
The rehabilitation works covered an area of 915 ha. Primarily wheat with some potatoes and vegetables are
grown on the subproject area. The scheme is characterized by the construction of new small mobile
pumping stations with new pipes to center pivots with overhead sprinklers. The rehabilitation works
included: (a) rehabilitation and reconstruction of the 915 ha irrigation system; (b) one primary and three
secondary pumping stations; (c) pipelines (concrete and PVC, 14 km); (d) center pivots (12 nos) for 915
ha; (e) high voltage overhead lines and transformers, 60 km; (f) farm roads, 14 km, and; (g) shelter belts,
27 km. There were no significant changes in the project scope.

60 Years of October

The 60 Years of October subproject is located in Pavlodar Oblast in northern Kazakhstan. The
rehabilitation project covered an area of 3,574 ha with potato, wheat and vegetables as the main crops. The
scheme is made up of a few large farms which obtain pumped irrigation water from the Irtish-Karaganda
Canal. Secondary pumping stations supply water to the center pivot overhead sprinkler irrigation
equipment and also to small canals for irrigation by tractor mounted sprinklers. The works included: (a)
rehabilitation and reconstruction of 3,574 ha of irrigation and drainage system in Aksu Rayon of Pavlodar
Oblast; (b) irrigation pumping stations, including associated works (5 nos); (c) irrigation pipelines
(concrete and steel; 51 km); (d) center pivots (52 nos) for 3,148 ha; (e) tractor mounted boom sprinkler
machines (7 nos); (f) drainage pumping stations, including associated works (4nos); (f) horizontal drainage
network, field drains (42 km) and collector drains (40 km); (g) high voltage overhead lines and
transformers (5 km); (h) farm roads (93 km), and; (i) forest belts (123 km).

There were no significant changes to the Project. At the request of farmers the amount of drainage works
was reduced, additional works were carried out for the pumping stations, and some changes introduced in
the contract documents for the tractor mounted sprinklers and center pivots. No significant technical issues
were encountered. The farmers raised the issue that water charges for pumped water from the
Irtish-Karaganda Canal were too high. A reduction in water charges was negotiated.

Chagansky

The Chagansky subproject comprises the Bahtiyar farm in Terktinskii Rayon, in West Kazakhstan Oblast
near Uralsk. The farm grows wheat and barley. The rehabilitation comprised the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of 534 ha of irrigation systems. The main work items included: (a) rehabilitation and
reconstruction of funicular pumping station; (b) high voltage overhead line and transformers, 50 m; (c)
center pivots (8 nos) on 534 ha; (d) pipelines (PVC and steel, 5.5 and 3.5 km respectively); (e) farm roads
(19 km); and (f) shelter belts (3 ha). No technical problems were encountered.




                                                     - 40 -

Zaik

The Zhaik subprojects comprises the Zhaik farm in Terktinskii Rayon, in West Kazakhstan Oblast near
Uralsk. The farm grows wheat and barley. The rehabilitation comprises the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of 615 ha of irrigation systems. The main works items included: (a) rehabilitation and
reconstruction of floating and mobile pump stations; (b) high voltage overhead line (50 m) and
transformers; (c) center pivots on 471 ha (9 nos).; (d) sprinkler irrigation on 144 ha; (e) pipelines (PVC
and steel, respectively 5.4 and 4.2 km).; (f) farm roads     ( 31 km), and; (g) shelter belts (10 ha).

The main technical issue encountered concerned a series of depressions that were discovered in the land
surface during the detailed surveys for the design work and which required additional land leveling works.

Kaisar 2

The Kaisar 2 subproject is located in Akmola Oblast a short distance from the capital Astana. The
rehabilitation works covered an area of 1,404 ha. The subproject is on a single farm, the Kaisar 2 farm,
which produces mainly wheat and potato. The scheme is characterized by the rehabilitation of a pumping
station on the Viacheslavsky reservoir (which is the water supply reservoir for Astana) with new pipes
feeding overhead center pivot sprinkler irrigation equipment. The site was chosen to demonstrate the center
pivot supplied and installed by Valley. The works included: (a) rehabilitation of the 1,404 ha irrigation
system; (b) construction of a new pumping station, capacity 1m3/s; (c) construction of 20 km of steel and
PVC pipeline; (d) supply and installation of 18 electrically driven center pivots; (e) construction of farm
roads; (f) construction of forest belts ( 45 ha) and; (g) levelling and filling of old canal embankments.

Additional work was required to de-commission the old irrigation equipment. Rehabilitation of potato
storage facilities was originally included in the designs, it was then decided by the farmer to omit this item
from the works. At a later stage of construction this was re-considered by the farmer but ultimately it was
agreed with the farmer not to include it in the works. No significant technical issues were encountered.

Kerbulak

The Kerbulak subproject is located in Almaty Oblast in South Eastern Kazakhstan. The Project involves
the rehabilitation of 2, 905 ha of land owned by six farmers. The Project is characterized by the
rehabilitation of existing tube wells which feed a series of small reservoirs. Water from the reservoirs is
pumped to center pivot overhead sprinklers. The land is mainly cultivated in wheat and barley with some
soya and other crops. The works include: (a) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation system at 10 separate
sites, owned and operated by 6 farms in Kerbulak Rayon; (b) rehabilitation of existing tubewells and
pumping equipment; (c) rehabilitation and replacement of pipelines (70 km); (d) rehabilitation/extension of
existing reservoirs and construction of new reservoirs; (e) rehabilitation of existing center pivots and supply
and installation of new center pivots on 2400 ha, both hydraulically and electrically driven; (f)
rehabilitation and construction of associated electrical systems; (g) construction of farm roads (70 km); and
(h) construction of forest belts (100 ha).

There were no significant changes to the Project other than changing the center pivots from the Valley
(electrical) type to Freygat (hydraulic) type machines, and; the change of asbestos pipes to glass-reinforced
plastic (GRP) pipes. No significant technical issues were encountered.




                                                      - 41 -

Darkhan A

The Darkhan subproject is located in the Almaty Oblast in the mountains bordering the Kyrgyz Republic.
The Project covers the rehabilitation of 867 ha of land. The Project is characterized by the construction of
an irrigation reservoir to warm snowmelt water so that it can be used for irrigation, and the installation of a
new piped irrigation system to supply water to new center pivot overhead sprinklers. The works include: (a)
rehabilitation of the existing irrigation system (867 ha); (b) repair of the diversion structure (replacement of
monolithic concrete, sealing of expansion joints, painting of metalwork, etc.); (c) repair of main steel pipes;
(d) replacement of pipes and construction of new pipes; (e) reinforced concrete pipes (diameter 800 mm,
length 200 m; (f) PVC pipeline (diameter from 160 up to 500 mm, length 12 km); (g) construction of
associated valve chambers, etc.; (h) supply and installation of 20 hydraulic driven center pivots on 867 ha;
(i) construction of a balancing reservoir (capacity of 35,000 m); (j) construction of farm roads (10 km); (k)
construction of forest belts (22 ha). There were no major changes in the works for the Project.

The only main technical problem occurred when during impoundment of the irrigation supply reservoir in
June 2003 a breach opened in the earth embankment dam along the line of the spillway culvert. The cause
of the breach was investigated and an inspection report was prepared. Significant remedial works were
subsequently carried out by the contractor at his own expense and the reservoir was successfully
impounded later in the year. No other significant technical problems were encountered.

Dusupova

The Dusupova subproject is located in West Kazakhstan Oblast near the city of Uralsk. The Project covers
rehabilitation of 1,024 ha of irrigated land cultivated with wheat. The Project is characterized by the
construction of a major new pump station with new pipelines supplying new center pivot overhead
sprinklers. Works included: (a) rehabilitation of existing irrigation system (1,024 ha); (b) construction of
new pumping station; (c) construction of steel and PVC pipeline (16 km); (d) supply and installation of
electrically driven center pivots operated by independent power generator (15 units); (e) construction of
farm roads (40 km); (f) construction of forest belts (15 ha); (g) leveling and filling of old canal
embankment; (h) construction of 10 kV overhead power supply line (9.4 km) and transformer for the
pumping station. There were no significant technical issues.

                     Additional Information on Cost Recovery and Machinery Issues

In the following paragraphs additional background information is provided on the resolution of the cost
recovery issue and the attempts made to resolve the problem of providing agricultural machinery to the
farmers.

Cost recovery. During the loan negotiations, it was agreed that the cost recovery would be through a
per-hectare betterment fee that would be linked to the land and collected together with the land tax. Upon
insistence of GOK this fee was to recover 70 to 80% of the investment costs. For the inter-farm works, an
increased land levy was proposed for farms benefiting from the improvements. At the start of the Project,
all potential farms for Year 1 and Year 2 subprojects had already signed Letters of Intent indicating their
willingness to pay the cost recovery fee. However, in late 1997 MOF indicated its strong desire to change
the agreed cost recovery system into a standard credit operation. It planned that the Eximbank, acting as
the agent bank on behalf of the MOF, would sign sub-loan agreements with the participating farms. Further
it was planned to have the new procedure described in a trilateral agreement between MOF, MOA and
Eximbank. Following failed attempts to reach a compromise solution, i.e. by using Eximbank as a
collecting agent only, the Bank concluded (in August 1998), that MOF's proposal would require certain



                                                     - 42 -

changes in the institutional arrangements. However, these changes were unacceptable to MOF and MOA.
In April 1999, it appeared that the issue had been resolved when MOF agreed not to pursue its proposed
on-lending mechanism. Still, in August 1999, MOA halted several key project implementation activities, as
well as the procurement process for new contracts because of cost recovery concerns. Finally, in early
2000, the issue was resolved. Since then, agreements on sub-loans for the cost of rehabilitation have been
signed between association of WUCCs, MOF and MOA, and Eximbank (the latter as the collecting agency
of the MOF). This became possible when a decision was taken that association of WUCCs could be formed
on the basis of a law on Rural Consumers Cooperatives. At the signing of its Charter, the AWUC
becomes the owner of the I&D system, which then can be used as collateral for the sub-loan from MOF.
The repayment schedule is in accordance with the terms in the Loan Agreement, while the Charter of the
AWUC provides for annual cost recovery from the members on a per hectare basis.

Provision of agricultural machinery to the project farmers. The need to provide agricultural machinery and
other working capital was clearly recognized during project preparation thus the agricultural component
initially included funds for providing credit to the farmers.        This Component was deleted during
negotiations and the expectation was that this need may be met from the Agricultural Post Privatization
Assistance Project (APPAP).        Unfortunately, the provision of working capital and farm machinery
remained an issue after APPAP became effective, the main reason being that the participating banks had
conditions for collateral that could not be met by the farms, generally requiring real estate in the major
cities as the agricultural land has almost no value. Therefore, late 2000, MOA proposed to channel funds
for essential agricultural/farm machinery at an estimated cost of $2 million to farmers in the subprojects
through KAZAGROFINANCE (KAF) - an agency in MOA - under a hire-purchase scheme. However,
the Bank was of the opinion that the APPAP was a better vehicle and suggested that further efforts should
be made to use APPAP funds. In 2001 the loan agreement of APPAP was amended, inter alia, to extend
the Project's coverage from two oblasts to the whole country and to cover leasing activities as well as credit
for purchase but otherwise no concessions were made to accommodate the IDIP farmers. However, early
2003 the Bank agreed in principle to provide farm machinery from the savings under the loan and provided
a set of conditions for the use of these funds. Although it was agreed that the equipment provided could be
used as collateral, on the remaining conditions the Bank was more strict than the MOA (i.e. on the
repayment period, interest rate and the size of the down payment) so unfortunately, no agreement could be
reached. The farmers are mobilizing their own resources and in some cases with the help of investors to
replenish their machinery stocks. As shown in Section 8 above the lessons learned for cost recovery as well
as provision of farm machinery are being incorporated in the design of the IDIP2




                                                    - 43 -

Additional Annex 9. Opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture of ROK on the Project (IDIP)


Relevance of the Issue and Project Rationale

Agriculture is taking one of the leading places in the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan
can export not only grain but also sugar, processed vegetable products, meat, milk, and etc.. However, the
limiting factor is the low natural moisture content, as the main part of the country's territory is
characterized by arid climate. Recent practice has shown that under the market economy conditions dry
land farming with the previous scope becomes risky in such zones.

Therefore, while continuing to use dry and rain-fed land, special attention should be given to the irrigated
land which allows gaining high and sustainable yields, irrespective of the natural moisture content. This
issue is becoming more and more relevant and urgent in view of the forthcoming accession of Kazakhstan
to WTO, as we need to produce competitive products not only in terms of grains, but also in crops such as
cotton, rice, sugar-beets, legumes and oil crops, corn, vegetable and cucurbitaceous crops, and fruits as
well.

Furthermore, for the last 30-40 years irrigated agriculture in Kazakhstan has provided population in the
rural areas with means for income and livelihood. In this respect, careful management of irrigated land and
creation of conditions for its efficient use shall become a strategic objective of the Government, which
ultimately will build the foundation for production of a competitive agricultural production and for effective
social and economic development of densely populated regions of the country.

Total area of land prepared for regular irrigation amounts to 2.39 million hectares. Not so long ago,
occupying only 6% of the country's crop land, this land provided for 30% of the entire agricultural output.

However, in early 1990s the efficiency of the irrigated land drastically decreased. Losses of irrigation water
increased. According to Kazgiprovodkhoz research institute, annual total loss of irrigation water, which
leads to deterioration of the irrigated land and economic situation as a whole, has reached 2.0-2.5 billion
m3 annually, including losses in the irrigation systems, which require irrigation rehabilitation, up to
1.2.-1.6 billion m3. Generally, under such circumstances, reclamation condition of soil deteriorates, and it
is difficult to estimate the efficiency of the entire set of agricultural practices.

Key reasons of the described situation were, first of all, the following:


1)       Increased deterioration and failure of the main water intake facilities;
2)       Increased deterioration and poor technical condition, and in some cases failure, of the existing
         irrigation and drainage systems;
3)       Inadequacy of the irrigation methods and equipment, breakdown of the irrigation equipment.

Thus, urgent need for radical reclamation measures occurred, i.e. measures on technical improvement and
rehabilitation of the deteriorated and failed irrigation and drainage systems. This was also stipulated in the
Government strategy on tackling the issues related to the need for environmentally safe use of water
resources.

Prior to reforms, the irrigation and drainage systems were rehabilitated based on the special Government
program at the budget expense. Nevertheless, these activities were ceased in the second half of 1980s. The
current situation calls for resumption of the rehabilitation activities. Moreover, due to high deterioration
rates, the level of financing of rehabilitation activities would not be less than 45-60 thousand tenge/ha
based on 1 ha of the rehabilitated land.




                                                       - 44 -

Government Measures on Project Implementation

Taking these circumstances into consideration, in 1993 the Government of Kazakhstan requested the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) to finance the program for irrigation and
drainage system rehabilitation. The Government program for irrigation and drainage system rehabilitation
and technical upgrading on the area of 775,000 ha was based on the Republican Integrated Reclamation
Program approved by the Government of ROK in 1991.

In this respect, it was necessary to examine initially the technical condition of the irrigation and drainage
systems. In 1993, for this purpose IBRD allocated project preparation funds to the Government of
Kazakhstan in the amount of US$1.5 million. These preparation activities were undertaken during
1993-1995.

On June 25, 1996, the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and IBRD was signed and
ratified by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of September 27, 1996, No. 36  I ZRK.

To follow the conditions of the Loan Agreement and to provide Government support for the development of
the irrigation and drainage systems of the agricultural producers, the Government of RK passed the
Resolution as of October 7, 1996, No. 1237 "On measures to follow the conditions to make the Loan
Agreement effective between the Republic of Kazakhstan and IBRD on the Irrigation and Drainage
Improvement Project" (Resolution No. 1237). Later on, Resolution No. 1237 was amended and
supplemented by the Government Resolutions as of July 9, 1997 No. 1087, as of April 6, 1998, No. 287,
as of January 25, 2002, No. 112 and as of March 18, 2004, No. 336.

Goal, Objectives and Cost of the Project

The main goal of the Project was to create the required reclamation conditions to increase the yields of
agricultural crops by 1.5-2 times through rehabilitation and          introduction of market principles to
organization of the irrigation and drainage system operations taking into account the environmental
requirements and norms.

Accomplishment of the objectives required to achieve this goal was broken down into three main project
components:


1)       Engineering component which included objectives related to organization of the irrigation and
drainage system reconstruction works;
2)       Environmental component which included objectives related to the organization of activities aimed
at improvement of the environmental reliability of the irrigation and drainage systems;
3)       Agricultural component which included objectives related to the organization of activities on
training of farmers and demonstration of agricultural reclamation practices.

Cost of the project was estimated at US$100 million, of which US$80 million was borrowed from IBRD
and US$20 million was provided by the Government of Kazakhstan as loan cofinancing.

Key Information about the Project Implementation

Selection and approval of land to be included in the Project was carried out in accordance with the IBRD
requirements and conditions based on 5 stages. During stage 5 conducted after the tender commissions
selected the construction firm and prior to the rehabilitation works, farms/system owners made their final
decision to rehabilitate the irrigation and drainage systems, concluded contracts for repayment of the
subloans, though according to the project requirements these documents must be processed only after
completion of the rehabilitation works and after final estimation of all the costs.




                                                    - 45 -

After the first stage, 34 farms were selected to be included in the Project and feasibility studies were
undertaken for all of them. Out of this number, 22 farms in 11 regions of the country with an area of 40.2
thousand ha were selected and upon the approval of the local authorities included in the Irrigation and
Drainage Improvement Project.

In the course of project implementation, for various reasons rehabilitation works were implemented only on
14 sites (Chagansk and Zhaik were combined into one site) in 9 regions of the country on the area of 32.0
thousand ha of the irrigated land. 22 ultimate borrowers operate on this rehabilitated irrigated land,
including 7 rural water users' cooperatives (RWUC), 1 association of rural water users' cooperatives
(ARWUC), 8 partnerships (LLC and limited partnerships) and 6 farms. A large number of farms,
producers' cooperatives and in some cases limited liability partnerships are the founders of the RWUC.

Despite the availability of the feasibility study results, rehabilitation works were not conducted on 7
irrigation systems (sites), namely:


1.       Saryozen site in Kostanai Oblast (reason: the farm has chosen rain-fed farming);
2.       Pritobolsk site in Kostanai Oblast (reason: the new director of the farm considered the
reconstruction to be premature);
3.       Mirny site in Karaganda Oblast (reason: low expected efficiency due to the increase of the cost of
irrigation water from the Irtysh-Karaganda channel);
4.       Astra site in Karaganda Oblast (reason: the farm did not agree with the condition to repay the
committed funds);
5.       Nura site in Akmola Oblast (reason: unfavorable environmental appraisal);
6.       Kaisar site in Aktobe Oblast (reason: the farm did not agree with the condition to repay the
committed funds);
7.       Patsayev site in Aktobe Oblast (reason: the farm did not agree with the condition to repay the
committed funds).

Establishment of Water Users Associations and maintenance services

Establishment of Water Users Associations and maintenance services became a main issue under this
Project, as in the course of the reform many former large collective farms were disintegrated into small
farms. As a result, former intra-farm irrigation and drainage systems turned to be inter-farm and did not
have any specific owner and orderly maintenance.

Such analysis allowed identifying those systems which need Water Users Association to be established
and those which do not.

As a result, project irrigation and drainage systems could be subdivided into two groups. It was taken into
account when conducting design and construction works.

Group 1. This group includes the irrigation and drainage systems located on the large farms' land (LLC,
limited partnerships). There were 14 such irrigation systems which were owned by 14 individual farms.
The farms/owners of such systems participated independently in the resolution of all the official issues
concerned with the Project.

Group 2. This group includes 8 irrigation and drainage systems which turned to be inter-farm systems as a
result of the disintegration of large farms (kolkhoz, sovkhoz, limited partnerships, etc.) into two or more
new farms (peasant farms, etc.). There were more than 1,600 such farms. The total area of their land use
was 21,920.6 ha or 69% of the overall project area.

In the course of project implementation, adequate attention was paid to the agricultural component of the



                                                     - 46 -

Project. Seminars on market organization of production were conducted on all sites, brochures were
published, demonstrations and educational films were produced. More than 20 articles pertaining to the
organization of production and operation of the rehabilitated systems based on the market approach were
published in the mass media.

Adequate attention was paid to the environmental component of the Project. The main objective was to
improve the process of decision-making and ensuring environmental substantiation and sustainability of the
design processes. The environmental component provided for the resolution of environmental issues over
the entire period of project implementation.

Moreover, the Center for Ecology and Monitoring in irrigated farming was established on the basis of the
Zhetysu hydro geological meliorative expedition and KIO DGP "GosNPTszem". To enhance the capacities
of the environmental sector, monitoring equipment was procured based on the Loan Agreement. This
equipment included field and laboratory devices, agro meteorological equipment, other auxiliary equipment
and specialized machinery.

To pursue environmental monitoring using the budget funds, repair of the laboratory premises of the Kyzyl
Orda hydro geological meliorative expedition was completed, a new laboratory for the Zhetysu hydro
geological meliorative expedition was constructed, laboratory and production premises of the Northern
branch of the Zhetysu hydro geological meliorative expedition were purchased and repaired.

Technical and economic evaluation of the initial results in the area of agricultural use of rehabilitated
irrigation and drainage systems shall be conducted based on the following indicators:

1)       restoration of production and growth of the area under crop;
2)       reduction of irrigation water losses (savings);
3)       reduction of power overuse (savings);
4)       crop yield increase.

Based on a survey results of 2004 out of 32 thousand ha of land rehabilitated, only 28.02 thousand ha or
88% of project lands were cultivated. Big portion of the irrigated lands covered by the Project were
being abandoned due to the breakage of water intake facilities and irrigation network. Therefore, only 17.9
thousand ha or 56% of all the project area were under production. Since 1997-1998 more than 8.0
thousand ha were not cultivated at all and were almost transferred to the category of rain fed lands. The
rest 6 thousand ha of the non-used territory due to unsatisfactory technical conditions of the pumping
stations and irrigation network were used ineffectively and partially. Thus, return of the abandoned lands
to the category of irrigated lands is a major fundamental result of the Project. Annual gross income on
those lands saved from further desertification in 2004 exceeded 580 thousand KZT.

On the developed project irrigated lands with the total area of more than 28 thousand ha the crop yield
increased in 1.45 times. As a result gross income comparing to pre-project indicators increased by more
than 400 mln KZT. The bottlenecks for crop yield growth are not of the meliorative nature but lack of
agricultural machinery and working capital. Once these problems are resolved, it is likely that the
effectiveness of restored lands use will increase dramatically.

Reduction of irrigation water "overuse" is also a very important result. Project implementation resulted in
reduction of irrigation water and power overuse compared to pre-project indicators was more than 3
thousand m/ha and 7 thousand kw/h annually, respectively. This reduction allows farms to observe the
required irrigation regime and use saved funds for agricultural improvements.

Potential agricultural, technical and economic opportunities of the project lands could be judged from
the following data received in the course of implementing the agriculture Project Component.



                                                     - 47 -

In 1998-1999 the Shengeldy irrigation facility of PC "Gylym" (manager  D. Zhakupov) managed to raise
the crop yield of sugar-beet up to 40 t/ha by introducing discrete irrigation technology and maintenance of
agricultural technology on the testing and demonstration fields supported by the Project. During the same
period, cotton crop yield on the testing and demonstration field at the Maktaral irrigation facility (CF of K.
Apashev) reached 34.5 centners/ha. In 1999 on the demonstration field of Krasnaya Polyana cabbage crop
yield exceeded 60 t/ha.

Social indicators are also critical. As a result of project implementation, more than 9 thousand jobs were
either created or restored, including those requiring special knowledge and skills. 250 jobs were created
only in the area of operating irrigation and drainage systems (electricians, motor-mechanics, operators etc.).


The Project also became an important vehicle for institutional and legislative development: (a)
establishment of PIU under the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and further
establishment of the project implementation division in the Ministry of Agriculture is an example of
positive institutional development. Around 50 experts were employed by those units as consultants, who
accumulated sufficient international experience in project implementation under market conditions; (b) as it
was noted, hydrogeology meliorative expeditions were significantly strengthened and received
methodological support. Many businesses of local developers and construction firms that used to be in bad
conditions in the middle of 90s, managed to improve their production and financial status and accrued
international experience in project implementation; (c) while addressing organizational and legal issues that
appeared in the course of project implementation, project consultants according to the instruction of the
MOA's management participated in the work of Working Groups on drafting the Law "On Rural
Consumer Cooperatives of Water Users", a new version of the Water Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
legal enactments, and Concept for Water Economy Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan up to
2010. Compliant to the MOA"s application the project experience was considered when finalizing Method
for setting subsidies' size based on the cost of water supply services and instruction on approving and
issuing permissions for special water use etc.

In a view of the above and considering the feedback and conclusions of project participants as well as
other parties concerned the following judgments could be made regarding this Project.

Irrigated farming in south and south-east dry regions remains the fundamental basis for improving
socioeconomic development of the major part of rural areas; and in the other regions  for establishment of
vegetable and dairy production around large cities and industrial centers.

During the last 10-15 years a lot of irrigation and drainage systems became obsolete. Due to that up to
60% of irrigation water is lost. It is accompanied by deterioration of melioration status of irrigated
lands (erosion, secondary salinization). Effectiveness of agricultural techniques (fertilizers, good seeds) is
getting down, as a rule, what is not acceptable in the market conditions and does not facilitate getting
competitive products.

To this end the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan on implementing
IDIP on the total area of 32 thousand (ha) in 9 oblasts of the Republic was a timely and justified measure.

Actually the main Project goal appeared to be even larger that just "improvement" as one of the
fundamental project results happened to be complete restoration and return to agricultural production of
irrigation and drainage systems with the total area exceeding 14 thousand ha, which due to breakage of
water intake facilities and irrigation network were almost out of use, while 17.9 ha or 56% of all the project
area were only partially used.

It is worth noting that according to the results of 2001-2004, i.e. first 3-4 years of operating rehabilitated



                                                    - 48 -

system, annual irrigation water savings were at least 60-65 million m, power savings  at least 30 mln
kw/h, cost of gross annual products increased by 280 mln KZT, net income increased by 60 mln KZT
comparing to the pre-project indicators. These indicators shall become even better in the future as the
production capacity is increasing and agricultural techniques at the farms are improving. To do so Akimats
need to arrange measures for priority support to the project farms in addressing the problem of effective
disbursement (soft credits, leasing etc.). It is also critical to ensure reduced tariff for electric power for the
farms that own the systems and use pumping irrigation and drainage.

We conclude by saying that in general the completed Irrigation and Drainage Improvement Project deserves
positive evaluation, given its goal and objectives, and that similar projects shall be continued further.

At the same time the following lessons of the Project shall be brought forward:

1)       The Project was not comprehensive, i.e. it did not include a component on equipping farms with
agricultural and maintenance machinery. As a result today, lack of machinery has become a bottleneck in
achieving project benefits faster, which could lead to a biased evaluation of the true project
achievements. Consequently repayment of the funds invested in the Project for reconstruction of the
priority facilities is nearing, and the farms have difficulties in meeting their repayment obligations;
2)       When preparing their applications for inclusion of subprojects in the Project, not all the Akimats
met the criteria on farms selections set forth by the Ministry of Agriculture of the ROK and IBRD, and
insisted on including in the Project not very promising farms. For instance, CF "Darkhan" of Rayimbek
Rayon of Almaty Oblast and "Kurchum" of Kurchum Rayon of East-Kazakhstan Oblast;
3)       Services under the consulting component were provided by international companies. This
Component appeared to be very expensive and made up around 15% of total project cost. At the same time,
many project decisions were not of the modern sophistication, and the consulting firms did not propose
up-to-date technical solutions. In the next project, these aspects shall be taken into account. More local
consulting firms and construction companies should be hired. Experience shows that quality of local
services is not worse than that of international ones, but the price is much lower.



                         Vice-Minister                                         D. Aitzhanov




                                                      - 49 -

- 50 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33837

              45E                      50E                           55E                             60E                         65E                              70E                                 75E                                        80E                               85E                           90E

                                                                                                   R U S S I A N                         F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0       100     200       300 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0           100            200 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                Petropavlovsk

                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH
                                                                                                             PRITOBOLSKOI(950 ha)                                                                               Ertis
                                                                                                                  PRITOBOLSKI
                      Volga                                                                                                                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                     (950 ha)                                                                                          (Irtysh)
                                                                                                                               Kostanai                                 Kokshetau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ob`
                              ZHAIK      DUSUPOVA                                           Ural                                                                                                            60 YEARS OF
                             (622 ha)          (991 ha)                                                          Tob  yl                                                                                      OCTOBER                      Pavlodar

                                                                                                                                                                                                              (3,574 ha)
                                                                                                                                                                   A K M O L A                                                Ekibastuz
50N                                            Ural'sk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50N
                           CHAGANSKI                                                                                                                                       ASTANA        KAISAR 2                    PAVLODAR
                            (565 ha)                                                                               KOSTANAI                            Esil   (Ishim)                    (1,170 ha)                                                                    Semipalatinsk     Oskemen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                             Chapaevo  Zhaiyk                                     COMPANY                                         SARYOZENSKI                           KUIGENZHAR                 MIRNY
                     WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRIRECHNY
                                             (Ura                        Aktobe   LTD KAISAR                                         (850 ha)                             (900 ha)
                                                                                                                                                                                    NURA          (1,302 ha)
                                                                   PATSAEV          (697 ha)                                                      Arkalyk                                                                                                             (1,574 ha)
                KAZAKHSTAN                     )l                                                                                                                                 (1,500 ha)                                                                                                       KURCHUM
                                                                    (627 ha)                        Yrghyz                                                                                              Karaganda
                                                                                                                                 Torghai                                                                                                                                     EAST                  (3,217 ha)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASTRA
                                                                                                                             Turgay
     Volga                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,880 ha)                                                        KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRASNAYA                                                                              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ayakos
                                     ATYRAU                                           Embi                                                                                                                 POLYANA                                                                             Zaisan

                                                                                                                                                                                                            (915 ha)
                                                                      Zhem

                                      Atyrau                              AKTOBE                Shalkar
                                                                                                                                              Zhezkazgan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Balkhash
                                                                                                                                                                        KARAGANDA                                                                                           Lepsi
                                                                                                             Aral                                                                                                                                                                    Lake
45N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lake                                             Alakol                                 45N

                                                                                                             ARDAGER                                     Sarysu                              Saryshaghan                         Balkash                Karatal        KZYL-AGASH
           Caspian                                                                                            (250 ha)
                                                         Beineu                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,420 ha)
                                                                                                                     Toretam
                                                                                                Aral                                                                                                                         Ile           ALMATY
                                                                                                                                 AKKUMSKY                                                                                                                          Taldykorgan
                                 MANGHYSTAU                                                     Sea                               (1,034 ha)                                       ZHAMBYL                                                                    KERBULAK
                                                                                                                                          Kyzyl-Orda                                Shu                                                                        (2,915 ha)
                            Aktau                                                                           KYZYLORDA                                                                           (Chu)                                        SHENGELDY
                                                           2001 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA                                                       Syrdariya                                                                                              (2,368 ha)
                                                                                                                                                                                     Talas         DZHAMBUL                                                               DARKHAN A                      C H I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,114 ha)         Shu
                  Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Almaty           (867 ha)

                                                                                                                                                                Turkistan

                                                                                                                                                                                   Taraz
                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                  Shymkent                                                                                                             80E
AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                                                                           K Y R G Y Z
                                                                                                             UZBEKISTAN                            KAZAKHSTAN
40N                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
                                                                                                                                                     MAKTARAL                                                                                  40N
                                                                                                                                                      (9,936 ha)                                                                                                       IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                                                 TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBPROJECTS IMPLEMENTED UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE PROJECT (TOTAL AREA = 32,282 HA)
                                                                                                                                                                               TA J I K I S TA N                                                                                SUBPROJECTS STUDIED BUT DELETED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FROM THE PROJECT (TOTAL AREA = 8,006 HA)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                  KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OBLAST CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
35N                                                    OF IRAN                                                                           AFGHANISTAN                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                             OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
  50E                                 55E                                         60E                                          65E                                            70E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARCH 2005

