Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4041 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation and Drainage Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 25, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4041 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l), 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CWR” means the Committee for Water Resources, an administrative agency 
of the Borrower, and includes any successor thereto;
(b)
“EU” means the environmental unit to be established by the Borrower 
within the MOA and referred to in paragraph 3 of  Part A of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
“ICC” means the Borrower’s inter-ministerial coordinating committee 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(e)
“MOEB” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Ecology and Bioresources;
(f)
“OCCs” means oblast coordinating committees referred to in paragraph 5 of  
Part A of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Participating Farm” or “Participating Farms” means the farm or farms 
selected for participation in the Project pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part B of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
“PIME” means the pilot irrigation management entity referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i)
“PIU” means the project implementation unit established within the MOA by 
MOA Order No. 182, dated November 24, 1995;
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 14, 
1995, and July 27, 1995, between the Borrower and the Bank;
(k)
“Resolution” means the resolution or resolutions, and any attachments and 
annexes thereto,  adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 1 of Part B of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended by the Borrower from time to 
time in agreement with the Bank; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Sub-project” means the sub-project selected for inclusion under Part A 
of the Project pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(n)
“WUAs” means water user associations referred to in paragraph 6 of Part A 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
Page  4
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Quarter equal to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding Quarter, plus 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period.”
“(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter.”
“(c) (iii) `Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 
1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project through the MOA, and Part C thereof through the MOA, 
MOEB and other agencies of the Borrower, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  5
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the Borrower’s national investment program in the irrigation sector;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1997, September 30, 1998, September 30, 1999, 
September 30, 2000, September 30, 2001, and September 30, 2002, respectively, an 
annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section during the period preceding the 
date of said report, and setting out the measures deemed appropriate to ensure that 
the Borrower’s investments in the irrigation sector are appropriate and consistent 
with the objectives of the Project and, specifically, the Borrower’s obligation under 
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement to make available the funds and other resources 
required for the Project; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 1997, October 31, 1998, October 31, 
1999, October 31, 2000, October 31, 2001, and October 31, 2002, respectively, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the annual reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, continue its implementation of the national 
investment program in the irrigation sector, taking into account the Bank’s views on 
the matter and the Borrower’s obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement to 
make available the funds and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  6
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
or payment out of the Special Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Resolution shall have been 
amended, waived or repealed.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Resolution has been duly adopted by the Borrower and has 
entered into force.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Resolution has been duly 
adopted and has entered into force.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower’s Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
97 Ablai Khan Avenue
Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakstan
Telex:
Page  7
251 245 FILIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
   Dollar
  to be
Category
Equivalent)
 Financed
(1)  Goods
3,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 85% 
of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(2)  Works 
      60,400,000 
70%
 
(3)  Consultants’ 
      11,600,000
100% 
Page  8
     services 
(4)  Refunding of
1,500,000
Amount due
     Project
pursuant to
     Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance
of this Agreement
(5)  Unallocated
3,000,000
_________
TOTAL
      80,000,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2), unless the 
Sub-project in respect of which disbursement is sought has been approved by the Bank 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent, works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent, 
and services under contracts costing less than: (i) $100,000 equivalent for consulting 
firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for individuals, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) promote sustainable irrigated 
agricultural production in the Republic of Kazakstan through irrigation and drainage 
rehabilitation, improved water management, and strengthened operation and maintenance; 
(b) introduce more efficient and effective agricultural practices and farmers’ 
information services; and (c) strengthen institutional capacity of irrigation and 
environmental agencies and entities of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems
Carrying out of sub-projects for improving the reliability and efficiency of 
irrigation water use by rehabilitating farm and inter-farm irrigation and drainage 
systems.
Part B:
Agricultural Development of Privatized Farms
Promotion of agricultural development of privatized farms through the provision 
of goods and services necessary to improve farmer training, and enhance demonstration 
activities, and information services.
Part C:
Institution Building
Page  9
1.
Improve the institutional capacity of the MOA, MOEB, PIU, and other agencies of 
the Borrower to implement the Project, through the provision of goods, services and 
training.
2.
Improve the operation and management of inter-farm irrigation systems through 
the carrying out of a study related to the establishment and operation of the PIME, 
through the provision of services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On December 1, 2001
1,550,000 
On June 1, 2002
1,605,000 
On December 1, 2002
1,660,000 
On June 1, 2003
1,720,000 
On December 1, 2003
1,780,000 
On June 1, 2004
1,845,000 
On December 1, 2004
1,905,000 
On June 1, 2005
1,975,000 
On December 1, 2005
2,040,000 
On June 1, 2006
2,115,000 
On December 1, 2006
2,185,000 
On June 1, 2007
2,265,000 
On December 1, 2007
2,345,000 
On June 1, 2008
2,425,000 
On December 1, 2008
2,510,000 
On June 1, 2009
2,595,000 
On December 1, 2009
2,685,000 
On June 1, 2010
2,780,000 
On December 1, 2010
2,880,000 
On June 1, 2011
2,980,000 
On December 1, 2011
3,085,000 
On June 1, 2012
3,190,000 
On December 1, 2012
3,300,000 
On June 1, 2013
3,415,000 
On December 1, 2013
3,535,000 
On June 1, 2014
3,660,000 
On December 1, 2014
3,785,000 
On June 1, 2015
3,920,000 
On December 1, 2015
4,055,000 
On June 1, 2016
4,210,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum)
Page  10
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
Page  11
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 
or more, the first contract for works procured under national competitive bidding 
procedures, the first contract for small works procured in accordance with Part C.4, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
Page  12
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
General Project Implementation Responsibilities
1.
ICC. The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, in a manner 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an inter-ministerial 
coordinating committee (ICC), chaired by a high level official of the MOA, with 
members from the Borrower’s Ministries of Finance, Economy, Geology and Construction, 
MOEB, CWR, PIU, Borrower’s Committee for Utilization of Foreign Capital, Borrower’s 
State Committee on Land Relations and Organization of Land Use, Borrower’s 
Hydrometeorological Services, Borrower’s State Sanitary-Epidemiological Service under 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, and Borrower’s Committee on Forests.  The ICC shall 
be responsible for reviewing the progress of Project implementation and resolving any 
general issues related to inter-agency coordination within the framework of the 
Project.
2.
MOA and PIU.  The MOA shall be responsible for overall Project implementation 
and supervision.  The PIU shall be responsible for day-to-day Project administration, 
management and coordination, including activities related to, inter alia, procurement, 
accounting, disbursement, auditing, reporting, as well as identification, preparation, 
analysis, and selection of potential Sub-projects, and monitoring and evaluation of  
Sub-projects.  The PIU shall be assisted by qualified consultants, appointed pursuant 
to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, who shall advise the 
PIU on matters related but not limited to: (i) overall Project planning and 
management; (ii) design and implementation of irrigation and drainage works; (iii) 
farm management and training; (iv) environment; (v) procurement; (vi) financial 
management; and (vii) Sub-project evaluation and performance monitoring.
3.
EU.  By March 31, 1997, the MOA shall establish an environmental unit (EU) 
within the MOA.  The EU shall be headed by a high level official of the MOA and 
staffed with an appropriate number of environmental specialists.  The EU shall be 
responsible, among other things, for:  (i) development and enforcement of sectoral 
environmental policies and action plans; (ii) planning and management to meet the 
MOA’s responsibilities under the Borrower’s environmental legislation; (iii) 
development of the MOA’s environmental assessment capacity for sectoral, regional, and 
project-specific activities; (iv) coordination of sectoral environmental training; and 
(v) interaction with other environmental agencies of the Borrower.
4.
MOEB.  The MOEB shall be responsible for coordinating the environmental aspects 
of the Project. 5.
OCCs.  The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the 
Project, in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, oblast 
coordinating committees (OCCs), which shall assist the PIU in the resolution of 
inter-agency issues related to the Sub-projects on the oblast level.
6.
WUAs.  The MOA shall examine and develop, to the extent appropriate, with the 
assistance of consultants, and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,  the framework 
for establishment and operation of water user associations (WUAs) within the 
boundaries of former state farms and collectives, whereby WUAs shall be responsible 
for operation and management of irrigation and drainage systems within such 
boundaries.
7.
PIME. The MOA shall: (a) undertake and, by April 30, 1997, complete a study 
related to the legal, organizational, operational and technical aspects of a pilot 
irrigation management entity (PIME), under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Part B:
Project-Specific Implementation Responsibilities
1.
The Borrower shall adopt a resolution (Resolution), satisfactory to the Bank, 
establishing the legal and regulatory framework for the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, which shall include the procedures, eligibility criteria, and terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Page  13
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) select sub-projects (Sub-projects) under Part A of the 
Project and farms for inclusion in the Project in accordance with the procedures and 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution and satisfactory to the Bank, 
including the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement; and (b) carry out the Sub-projects in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Resolution and satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
terms and conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the PIU, and 
ensure that the PIU at all times functions in accordance with procedures, and is at 
all times staffed and managed by persons with qualifications and under terms of 
references necessary for successful Project implementation, and satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that national cost recovery rates for operation and 
maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure outside the boundaries of the 
former state farms and collectives are no less than fifty-five percent (55%) by 
December 31, 1997, seventy percent (70%) by December 31, 1998, eighty percent (80%) by 
December 31, 1999, and greater than ninety percent (90%) by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
 1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Page  14
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 7
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria, and Terms and 
Conditions Applicable to Participating Farms and Sub-projects
Part A:
Procedures
1.
The Borrower shall, prior to the selection of each Sub-project, submit the 
proposal for that Sub-project to the Bank for approval.
2.
In addition to the general procedures described in paragraph 1 of Part A of this 
Schedule, the following procedures shall apply to the selection of Sub-projects: 
(a)
Before a farm becomes a Participating Farm, it shall submit to the PIU a 
letter of intent, expressing interest in, and providing a summary of, the proposed 
Sub-project.
(b)
The PIU shall determine, taking into account the information provided in 
the letter of intent and following consultations with and no objection from the Bank, 
whether or not to further prepare and appraise the proposed Sub-project.
(c)
If, following the above procedures, the PIU determines to proceed with 
the preparation of the proposed Sub-project, the PIU shall, where applicable in 
consultation with the Participating Farm, prepare for the proposed Sub-project: (i) a 
feasibility report in the form required under the Resolution and satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (ii) an environmental impact assessment satisfactory to the Bank. The 
feasibility report shall contain: (i) a description of the Participating Farm, 
including its legal status and ownership; (ii) copy of the charter (bylaws) of the 
Participating Farm; (iii) description of the Sub-project; (iv) estimate of the 
Sub-project’s costs; (v) economic and financial analysis of the Sub-project; (vi) an 
assessment of the potential impact of the proposed Sub-project, if any, on other 
riparian countries; and (vii) plan for operation and maintenance, and, when 
applicable, proposed arrangements for a WUA. 
(d) 
Before the PIU approves the Sub-project, the PIU shall submit the 
proposed Sub-project to the Bank for review and approval. When presenting the proposed 
Sub-project to the Bank, the PIU shall furnish to the Bank: (i) the reports referred 
to in paragraph 2 (c) above; (ii) the conclusions of the State Ecological Expertise 
Review; (iii) the letter of intent referred to in paragraph 2 (a) above; and (iv) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
1.
Participating Farms and Sub-projects shall be selected only with respect to 
farms and proposals selected and evaluated in accordance with criteria satisfactory to 
the Bank, including the criteria set forth below.
2.
In selecting the Participating Farms and Sub-projects, the Borrower shall ensure 
that:
(a)
Sub-projects shall seek to rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes; (no 
irrigation of new areas is to be provided under the Sub-project, except for such land 
which was previously irrigated) and, depending on the assessment of the potential 
impact of the proposed Sub-projects on other riparian countries, shall comply with the 
policies and procedures in this regard acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
Sub-projects shall not divert water from major river basins to another;
(c)
Sub-projects shall not drain or reclaim any significant area of natural 
wetland which has or is likely to have a significant impact on an important area of 
wildlife habitat or major fishery;
(d)
Sub-projects shall not use untreated domestic waste water for irrigation;
(e)
irrigation of tobacco plants shall not be eligible for inclusion in any 
Sub-projects;
Page  16
(f)
Sub-projects shall be have an economic rate of return and financial rate 
of return equal to or greater than twelve percent (12%);
(g)
farms applying to become Participating Farms shall be private farms; 
(h)
Sub-projects shall address the risk of encountering unknown archeological 
or historical sites by adopting and following appropriate procedures, satisfactory to 
the Bank, addressing such a risk; and
(i)
Sub-projects shall not cause the deterioration of water quality in the 
areas outside Sub-project areas, meet all local and national environmental standards 
and requirements, and that Sub-projects’ design and implementation provide for 
adequate mitigation measures to ensure full compliance with local and national health, 
environmental, and safety standards and requirements.
Part C:
Terms and Conditions
1.
Each Sub-project shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, 
commercial and managerial standards, including local and national environmental 
requirements.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Farms to allow the representatives of 
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to inspect such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that on-farm investment costs incurred for each 
Sub-project shall be recovered in accordance with the following criteria:
(a)  
cost recovery shall be based on a per-hectare fee;
(b)  
cost recovery shall be achieved during a period of not less than thirty 
(30) years; and
(c) 
cost recovery rate shall be not more than eighty percent (80%) and not 
less than seventy percent (70%).
