Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROGRAPHICS
RePWt N. 12151
Report No: 12151
Type: PCR
PROJECT COMPTON RORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A uRBAN DEVELOPImNT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1202)
JUNE 30, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiets ony in the perfonnance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without Wo1d Bank autorizaton
.~~~~~~al Bakatouin



Currency Ecuivalents
Currency Unit: Yemeni Rial (YRl)
(Yemeni Rials per US Dollar)
Period                   gnd of Period            Period Averago
197W-1982                 4.5625                   4.5625
1983                      4.6765                   4.5785
1984                      5.8600                   5.3533
1985                      6.4850                   6.4143
1986                      8.9900                   7.3980
1987                      8.9900                   8.9900
1988                      9.7600                   9.7717
1989                      9.7600                   9.7600
1990                     12.0100                  11.2600
Fiscal Year
Government of Republic of Yement January 1 - Deuember 31
Measures and Ecuivalents
I hectara (ha)- 10,000 m2 or 2.471 acres
List of Abbreviations
ECA/MENA -  Europe & Central Asia/Middle East and North Africa Regions
ERR   -     Economic Rate of Return
lCB   -     Housing Credit Bank
IDA   -     International Development Association
LRD   -     Land Registration Department
MENA  -     Middle East and North Africa Region
MMH   -     Ministry of Municipalities and Housing. After May 1991 MMI
was renamed NEUP
MHUP  -     Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning
NWASA -     National Water and Sanitation Authority
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
PPF   -     Project Preparation Facility
ROY   -     Republic of Yemen
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR   -     Special Drawing Rights
SLA   -     Subsidiary Loan Agreement
UDPU  -     Urban Development Project Unit
YAR   -     Yemen Arab Republic.  After unification in 1991 YAR became a
part of ROY
YGEC  -     Yemeni General Electricity Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS QND ThE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Yemen
Sana'a Urban Development Project
(Credit 1202-YAR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Yemen - Sans'a Urban
Development Project (Credit 1202-YAR) , prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department II of the Middle East and North Africa Regional
Offic,, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The projdct was prepared as a demonstration operation with many far
reaching objectives.  It succeeded in providing urban infrastructure to the
targeted low-income groups in two areas of Sana'a. Its completion was, however,
delayed by four and a half years due to complexities of institutional reforms and
beneficiary selection criteria.
The project succeeded in reinforcing the technical capabilities of
the main implementing agency. It also facilitated housing financing for low-
income families through the newly established Housing Credit Bank. The project's
achievements in implementing regulatory reforms for cost recovery and land
registration were less than scheduled.
The project's overall performance is ratwd as satisfactory, its
institutional development as partial, and the sustainability of its benefits as
uncertain.
The project was succeeded by another operation (Credit 1441-YAR, alsc
recently completed) which pursued the same basic objectives. The two projects
may be audited as a cluster.
The PCR is of good quality.
ThSs docu t has  restrScted distribution and my be used by recipfents only In the perfoannce
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disctosed mithout Uortd Bank authorization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
pROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPURLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I=REDIT 1202-YARI
Table of Contents
Titlo                                                               Raoe no.
Preface.....  ..,....................... .. ...........,,9 90*** **e ...... I
Evaluation Summary           ................... ,L. ii
RMLI
(by IDA)
1.  Project Identity........................................    1
2.  Backrond.........                                                1
3.  Project Objectives and Desri.ption.        ..........            2
4.  Project Design and orgarizationr        .............            3
5.  Project Implementation ......                                    4
6.  Project Results            ............. ......                  6
7.  Economic Evaluation and Rates of Return ...                      7
8.  Impact of Project.......................................    7
9.  Project Sustainability ........... ......                        8
10. Bank Performance ...................................    8
11. Borrower Performance ..............8..............    8
12. Project Relatiofnship ...................................    9
13. Consulting Services .........................                    9
14. Project Documentation and Datat...........                       9
15. Status of Covenants..........................                    9
16. Lessons Learned ............................... ..... ...    9
(by Borrower)
1.  Reflections on the Performance of the Ba             n k        11
2.  Reflections on the Performance of the Borrower..........  11
3.  Lessons Learn                                                   17
PART TIII
(by IDA)
Table
1.  Related Bank Credits..... 18
2.  Project Timetable ......                                        19
3.  Loan Disburementst.....                                         20
4.  Project Implementation. . .00*. . . . .....  ............ .. .   21
S.  Status of Covenants4......                                      22
6.  Appraisal and Actual Cost...                ...   24
7.  Appraisal and Actual Project Financing.....*........    25
8.  Mission Data,,...,.........................                     26
9.  Economic Rate of Return.....                 ..............   27
10. Profile of Beneficares..                                        28
Mapes IBRD 16031R, 16032R and 16033R.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLT2ION REPORT
REPUBLIC Og YEMEN
(CREDIT 1202-TAR)
1.    This is the Project Completion Repnrt (PCR) for the Sana'a Urban
Development Project in the Republic of Yemen (ROY), for which Credit 1202-YAR
in the amount of 8DR 12.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent), was signed on
January 28, 1982. The credit was closed on June 30, 1992, four and a half
years behind schedule, and has been fully disbursed after cancellation of SDR
260,000 in May 1991.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepareds the Infrastructure operations Division of
MNa Regional Office prepared the Preface, Evaluat-on Summary, and Parts X and
lug the Borrower, t-he Government of the Republic of Yemen, and the
implementing agency, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (MHUP)
prepared Part II.
3.   Preparation of the PCR started during IDA's final supervision mission of
the project in February/March 1992 and is based, ;&or aLia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, correspondence between IDA and the Borrowerg and IDA's
internal memoranda and reports.
in May 1990, Yemen Arab Republic and People Democratic Republic of Yemen
united to from the Republic of Yemen.



ii
PROECT COMPLXOQN REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MANAA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1202-YAR)
JO&MD^ION SUMARY
Obiectiven
1.   The project was conceived as a demonstration project tailored to the
implementing capacity of the executing agencies. The main objectives were to
assist the government ins focusing intervention on development of urban land
and the provision of infrastructure for the lowest income groups;
strengthening and encouraging cost effective building materials and
construction techniques; and reinforcing the existing institutional framework
for future systematic implementations.
_.Iem"at ion Experience
2.    The closing of the credit was delayed by four and a half years, as a
result of various factors (para. 5.04). All major components were implemented
with the exception of the issuance of land titles and the connections to the
sewerage network for some beneficiaries at Musayk (paras. 6.02 and 6.03
respectively).
3.    The project did not incur serious procurement problems, except for
delays in the administrative processes of roview and decision making, as well
as inexperience with IDA's procurement guidelines (para. 5.06).
4.   The overall project cost increased in YRI by 68 percent, -while the cost
in US$ increased by 27 percent (Part XII, Table 6). The average depreciation
of the YR1 relative to the US$ over the life of the project accounts for
almost all the increase, while the depreciation ef the US$ relative to the 8DR
over the life of the project was about 23 percent.
S.   The  Credit was fully disbursed by the end of the 4 month grace period
beyond the closing date (para. 5.08). Audits received of project accounts
were deemed satisfactory (para. S.09).
Results
6.   The project was successful in providing urban infraseructure to the
targeted income groupu through an upgrading component in Musayk and a sites
and services component in Sawad Sawan which included 126 demonstration houses
to introduce cost effective construction techniques.
7.   The project was successful in reinforcing the technical capabilitles of
the Urban Development Project Unit (UDPU) at the newly created Ministry of
Municipalities and Housing (NNH), (which later became the Ministry of Housing
and Urban Planning (MHUP)), and in providing home-construction financing
facilities for low income families through the Housing credit Rank (HCB).



iii.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
However, the prrject was le  successful in fully implemnting institutional
and regulatory raforms relating to full cost recovery and land registration.
fiugtainabilltv
8.   The key to the sustainability of the benefits intended by the project is
to implement a comprehensive and equitable resourco mobilization schem on a
wide scale to ensure the continu^xtion and maintenance of these services and
similar future programs without further burden on the limited public
resources. Further institutional strengthening of the Urban Development Fund
(UDF) will enhance the replicability of this project through the utilization
of accumulated funds.
9.   Continuation of the institution building and reform achieved at MMUP
thus far is threatened by the diminishing ability of the public sector to
attract and retain suitably qualified staff because of the low salary scales
in the civil service (para. 9.03).
Pindings and Lessons Learned
10.  Problems and delays in project implmentation were due to the following
major factors:
(a) complexity of the institutional reform required of the implementing
agency and the Government;
(b) lack of clear lines of authority and coordination within and amongst
different agencies;
(c) initially stringent criteria and cumbersome procedures for the
selection of beneficiaries for the sites and services component at Sawad
Sawan; and
(d) exceptional extraneous circumstances (para. 5.04).
10.  The lessons learned from this project which was the first project to
initiate alternative approaches to urban developuent in ROY are: more
realistic estimates of the time needed to introduce new approaches to urban
development and accompanylng institution bullding. Additionally, the projects
should be slmple with Ilmited number of components; detailed enough in advance
so that exogenous dependencies are reduced to a minimum; and tailored to the
realistic capabillty of the implementing agency. An umbrella of strong
Government commitment throughout the project is essentlal for lts success.
This can be achieved through periodic and high level reviews between IDA and
the Government to assess changing priorities withln the sector.



REPUBLIC OP YEMN
AS " A        DEVELOPMENT PRO     COMPIO   ET
lCREDIT 1202-YXAI
-It PR   CT REVIEW PROM XDA' S PRBSPECTZVE
1. ¢  Proiect Ydontity
Project Name                              Sana'a Urban Development Project
Credit Number                             1202-YAR
Credit Amosznt                            SDR 12.8 million
Credit Cancellations                      SDP 260,000
Regional Vice Presidential Unit           NINA
Country                                   Republic of Yemen
Sector                                    Urban
2.   Sacakamnn
°atrodctionLp
2.01        The Governmnt of the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) o  0essd
interest in receiving IDA assistance in developing the urban sector in 1978.
At that time the Government's urban policy and strategy were not well-defined.
A sector study conducted by IDA identified and outlined a long-term stravsgy
for urban development in YAR:Urban Sector Report (No. 2699-YAR), and
recommended a priority action plan which was tle nucleus for this project.
The project was identified In March 1979. During the preparation mLssions
that took place between July 1979 and December 1980, the government expressed
the urgency it felt and suggested an accelerated schedule. It was agreed that
priority attention should be focused mainly on strengthening the institutional
framework in the urban sector by implementing minimal cost sites and services
and community improvement projects to create the precedent and experience
required for long-term replicability. The appraisal mission visited YAR in
June 1981. Negotiations were held in November/December of 1981. The credit
was signed on February 5, 1982 and became effective on Xay 7, 1982.
Sector Develonment Obiectivs._
2.02        Rapid urban growth in YAR was a relatively recent phenomenon whLch
started in the early 19706 after the Government had consolidated the country
politically and succeeded in opening it to the outside world after the 1962
Revolution and a long civil war. Several factors have accounted for the
growing urbanization, prominent among which are the cash .';comes from workers"
remittances and rural-urban migration of single males. The institutional
framework for dealing with this urban growth and associated problem was
limited, and non-existent in the case of acquiring and developing land or
implementing comunity improvement projects.
2.03        The principal element of a long-term urban development strategy
for YAR was the creation of a viable administrative system with the delegation



-2-
of the responsibilities for urban development by the Central Government to the
municipalities. Short-term urban development. objectives weres (i) increasing
the supply of land which could be conveyed with secure tenure, urban
infrastructure, housing and housing financet (ii) directing more of this
supply toward lower income groupos and (iii) exploring alternative sources of
'unds to finance housing and infrastructure both at the central and local
leve-S.
polali Context
2.04        Prior to 1979, the Government of YAR had not yet developed a
comprehensive urban policy. Much of government intervention had been on an
d hoc basis with various ministries and agencies being involved in the
preparation, promotion and implementation of urban reltted schemes. Several
large, high cost, subsidized, housing programs had been lo..ched with mixed
success, and were affordable to only medium and high income families.
Government efforts to stimulate housing cost reductions by encouraging t'e
importation of foreign technologies had adversely affected the ability of
domestic firms to adopt the new technologies and remain competitive with
foreign firm. In 1979, the Government decided to establish a new Ministry of
Municipalities and Housing (MMH) with vested authority over urban develcmvent,
including housing.
Linkace aetwec the Pro2ect and Macro Pol¢i_ Obiectives
2.05        This pi;o-ect provided the government with alternative policies to
subsidized housing programs whicb divert scarce financial resources frm the
economy. The project was designed to make full use of private initiative in
the housing sector while channelling goverment intervention toward removLag
key bottlenecks in the housing delivery system by providing serviced plots,
housing construction loans and secure land tenure. The project was designed
to recover 81 percent of total project cost with the balance (related to trunk
infrastructure serving other communities) underwritten by the Government. The
project addressed the needs of the poorest segments of the popMlation in
Sana'a, with monthly incomes below TRI 3,000 in 1983 prices, who had llttle
access to serviced land and mortgage financing. It also promoted employment
opportunities for local construction labor, and more cost effective housing
construction materials and techniques through the pilot shelter component.
3.   PKoiect Obiectives and Descriotion
Proiect Obiectives
3.01        The main objectives of the project, whlch was conceived as a
demonstration project, were to assist the Government ins (i) focusing its
intervention on the development of urban land and the provision of
infrastructure for the lowest income groups; (Ui) strengthening and
encouraging local cor.;ractors and individual home builders to use cost
effective building materials and construction techniques; and (ILi)
reinforcing the existing institutional framework in order to implemont this
approach more systematically in the long-run.



-3-
Froject Comrioner.ts
3.02        The project, at appraisal, consisted of the followlng components:
(i) infrastructure upgrading and sites and services in two locations in the
clty of Sana'a; (Ui) pilot shelter and housing finance scheme and (ill)
institutional development.
3.03        The upgrading component at Kusayk covered 68 hectares of land,
mostly built up, to benefit a populatlon of about 3,400 households or 22,000
people (10% of Sana'a 1981 population). Major physical works under this
component included the provision ofs various surfaced and compacted roads,
service roads and footpaths; storm water drainage; water-borne sewerage system
to serve the eatLre area; construction of a main collector to an off-site
sewerage interceptor; and street lighting. Other non-physical works included:
extension of solid waste collectlon to the area; delivery of land titles
through the land regiLtration program; and provision of credlt facilities for
home improvements through the Housing Credit Bank (RCB).
3.04        The sites and servicjs component at Sawad Sawan covered 25
hectares of government-owned land to accommodate about 1,980 low-income
households or 11,100 people. Physical works included the proviLsion of:
various surfaced and compacted roads, service roads and footpaths; indivldual
water and sewerage connections; storm water drainagel street lighting;
equipment for garbage collection; reserved areas for community facilLties and
commercial development; and trunk sewer to an off-site Lnterceptor.
3.05        The pilot shelter component lncluded 142 demonstratLon houses of
two basic standard layouts utilizing locally produced building materials; and
a building construction specLalist who would provide technical assistance.
The housing finance scheme included a line of credlt of YRI 22.5 million (US$5
million) for constructLon loans to project beneficiaries.
3.06        The institutLonal development component allowed for a total of 18
man-years of consulting and advisory services to cover: (i) a study to
establish a modern land registratlon system; (i) project execution; and (iLL)
training and preparatlon of future projects.
3.07        On April 19, 1990 the descriptlon of the project was amended to
provide for the procurement of refuse collection and disposal equipment and
traffie signals, at the request of the Government, to utillze the savings in
the Credit (para. 5.07).
4.    Project Desdon and Orantzation
4.01        To address the problems of the urban sector, the project, whioh
wa the first of its kind, was designed to provide the framework for the
establishment of appropriate Lnstitutions and to stress the interrelationehip
between the physical and the inotitutional buLlding components. In
particular, the upgrading, sites and servLces and the technLcal assistance
components would be the vehicle for initiating formal land registration
policLes and procedures; better land development and physical planning



-4-
standardsl and the alleviation of bottlenecks for hoasing finance, as veil as
cost reduction in construction and building materials.
4.02        Because of the very limited implementation capacity of the newly
foumd MM and the HC8, combinMd with the pervasive shortage of quallfied
counterpart staff, the project included a substantL1l amount of techlical
assistance. Techniec1 assistance amounted to about 18% of project cost and
in¢luded the establishment of an Urban Development Project Unit (UDPU) in AMG
to coordinate and implement the project components.
5.  71askZnsmnnail
Loan Effect&veness and Proisot ntagt&-=
5.01        The loan was signed on February 5, 1982 and became effective on
May 7, 1982 as scheduled. Although the Government showed anthusiasm in
satisfying the necessary conditions for effectiveness wlthout delay, there
w&re early Pignq of impending delays to follow due to a lack of strong
managerial procedures and clear lines of authority for project implementation
(para. 5.04).
Qnstruction
5.02        The physical works of both Musayk and Sawad Sawan were awarded to
a foreign contractor which completed the work according to schedule and was of
good quality. The demonstration houses were awarded to a local contractor who
started with very slow progress and unsatlifactory work quallty. After
continuous pressure from HRUP# work was finally completed by September 1987
with acceptable quality, 2 years behind schedule and with a lot of remedial
work.
Studies and Technical Assistane
5.03        The studies originally envisaged by the project (para. 3.06) to
establish a modern land registration system in YAR and the preparation of the
Second Urban Development Project were completed. The Land Regiatration study
was successful in designing a land registration system acceptable to IDA and
the Government. Thli system would establish land titles for both sites of the
project as a precursor to national implementation. Nationwide applications of
the system were not implemented because of the would be associated costs. At
the closlng of the credlt, title isuance for )usayk was inccmplete because of
a recent governmental reorganisation which affected the Land Registration
Department (LRD). The preparation of the Second Urban Development Project
(Credit 1441-YAR) was done in-house by the UDPU with external assistance from
individual experts.
Imolementation Dela=s
5.04        The physical works of the project were completed by the end of
1987, within the orlginal closing date of the Credit, and the project was
substantially completed by the end of 1989, and closed about four nd a half



-5-
years later than originally envisaged. The project lneurred delays for the
following reasones
(a) cumbersome beneficiary aseection procedures at Sawad sawan due
to inexperlence with such procedures and lack of initial
enthusiasm by the public stemmLng from the stringent ellgibllity
screening process, which was duly relaxed;
(b)   -ate st-rt of the physical works followed by slow progress
of the demonstration houses due to ungatisfactory performance of
the local contractors
(c) onerous bureaucratic procedures for the processing and iLsuing
of payments, lengthy procurement revLew and approval procedures
and lack of coordination between the dlfferent ministrles;
(d) unclear lines of authority between the Director of Rousing and
the Project Unit wlthin MMUP, and diffLculty in attracting and
retaining quallfied expert help; and
(a) exceptional extraneous circumstances; the unification of South
and North Yemen and the Gulf Crisis with the flood of returnees
which preoccupLed the government and deflected lts attention.
Closino Date Kxtensions And Completion
5.05        The closing date was extended five times from December 1987 to
June 1992, to allow adequate time to: (i) extend housing construction loans
since benefLciarLes were reluctant about borrowing from HCS at market rates
(para. 5.07); (il) complete the studies; and (iLi) procure equLpment financed
from thec credit savings realized (PAPA. 5.07), respectively. In retrospect,
it can be argued that the extensLons were justifiable since at the time of
credit closing on June 30, 1992, all physical works, studies and equipment
procurement were completed. The institutional and operational objectives were
not entirely met (paras. 6.02 & 6.03).
Procurement
5.06        The project encountered no majoL procurement problems during tb-
construction phase. Slow declsion maklng and cumbersome governmental
procedures caused delays in the procurement of refuse collection and dLoposal
equipment and traffLc signals necessitating an extension of the closLng date
on two occasions.
Proisot Cost aWn  Lsburement
5.07        The credit experienced some savings due to the lower than
estimated bid submitted by the international contractor for the construction
of the lnfrastructure and a further flve per cent dlscount for early part-
payments. Depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR, the devaluation of
the ye  nl RLyal and the reluctance of beneficLarLes to borrow from MCD for
houaing construction at market rates have added to savings of about US$3.0



-6-
million. The credit agreement was amended, in April 1990, to utilize the
savings of the c-.edit to permit the procurement of refuse collection and
disposal equlpment and traffic signals.
5.08        The diaOursement of the credit took about twlce as long as that
anticipated at appralial (Table 3, Part II!). By the original closlng date of
December 1987, only about S4 percent of the credlt proceeds had been drawn
down. The amount of SDR 260,000 and SDR 64,000 was canceled in May 1991.
Audits and Renorting
S.C9       Accordlng to the credit agreement, MMUP and RC8 provided IDA wlth
annual audits of thelr accounts audited by independent auditors, as well an
seml-annual implementation progress reports for the UDPU at IHUP.
6.   Project Results
6.01       Notwlthstanding its slow implementation, the project substantlally
achieved its main objectives with regard to sites and services and
demonstration houses at Sawad Sawan. The project was successful in providing
1,525 serviced plots which have been subsequently allotted to beneficiaries
with income ranges between 3,000 and 2,000 YR1 per month according to the
selection criteria set by MHUP and IDA. The vast majority of these plots have
houses built on them or are in the process of being built (to date 229 plots
remain undeveloped). About 700 housing construction loans have been extended
to the beneficiaries from HCB totaling about YRI 42 million. The
demonstration houses, 126 units, were completed, sold and have subsequently
been added-to by the new owners. -,he area is serviced with several schools, a
commercial center and common arous as well as receiving adequate garbage
collection.
6.02        The project was successful in upgrading an area of about 70
hectares at Musayk, benefiting about 3,300 households. Application of cost
recovery was limited since it was stipulated that cost recovery in that area
was contingent upon connection to the sewerage system. Because of delays,
outside the control of the project, in the propoBed construction of the Sana'a
waste water treatment facility, only a limLted number of houses wOe connected
to a temporary facility with limited capacity to serve about S00 houses. The
iesuance of titles in the Nusayk area is incomplete because of a recent
governmental reorganization that affected LRD.
6.03        Cost recovery from benefLciaries was assured through a contract
between NHUP and the National Water and Sanitation Authority (NlASA), which
collected, as stipulated under the Credit Agreement, a progressive addition to
the monthly water bLIls after connection to the sewerage network. Cost
recovery is not fully implemented in Musayk since not all houses are connected
to the sewerage network. Those that were connected to the sewerage network
have been paying the monthly Lmprovement charges regularly.
6.04        The project ha  -atablished an Urban Development Fund (UDF) whlih
would be the recipLent of the beneficiary repayments, and would subsequently
be used for seed investments on similar urban projects. The fund grow unused,



wLth deposits to date exceedLng YRI 25 million, malnly because: (i) the
mechanics of utllilzing the fund were not clearly spelled out ln the SU and
were left to be developed later; (Li) the government took a long tLme to
process the bylaws governing the operatLons of the fund; and, (iii) the
dLffLculty of finding suLtable staff to manage it.
7.   Economlc Ivaluation and Rates of Return
7.01        in the SAR the estLmated economic rate of return (ERR) for the
upgrading and sites and servLces together was 25 percent, which lncluded
components having quantifiable benefits, representing 77 percent of project
cost; upgrading and aLte. and servLces components with demonstration houses
and constructLon loans. However, the detailed assumptions and analyses of the
cost and benefit streams were missing from the project file. Therefore,
following broadly similar assumptions used by the SAR, the updated ex post
facto ERR was estimated to be 16 percent (Table 9, Part 11).
8.    Imnact of the Prolect
8.01        The project contributed to the improvement of the quality of life
for some 27,000 low income people at Musayk and Sawad Sawan by provldLng them
with urban servLces. Potential beneficiaries had to go through a rlgorous
ellgibility screening process, agreed with IDA, which gave priority to
households with income below YRl 3,000 per month at 1983 prices. Table 10,
Part III, highlights certain characteristics of the selected beneficiaries.
8 02        The project directly and indirectly improved the employment
opportunities for individuals in the local home construction industry which
has increased at a noticeable rate in the Sawad Sawan area utilixing the cost
effectlve building techniques lntroduced and credit facLlities extended by
HCB. The project also impacted the social environment by provlding plots used
for schools, mosques and commercial areas.
8.03        The impact of the project on the institutional side can be
observed through the enhanced abillty of the UDPU's staff to design and
prepare, in-house, other urban development projects.
8 04        Furthermore, the project's infrastructure works whlch provLded
water servlces, sewerage and solid waste collection and disposal have
considerably improved the environmental conditions in the two areas of Sanaa.
Nevertheless, contlnued delays in solving the problem of the temporary
sewerage dLiposal plant in sana'a would eventually negate some of the
improvements achieved by the project. Moreover, the solid waste disposal sLte
is located above the main aquifer supplying the city of Sana'a and is a
potential serLous threat. IDA missions have recommended relocating the sLte
4d llning the existing sLte with a waterprooflng membrane to arrest leachants
from further contaminatlng the existlng aquifer.



-8-
9.     ro2isot Sustainabilitv
9.01        Sustainability of the net benefits of this project will depend on
the ability of the Government to offev the beneficiaries land tenure
protection through a modern land registration system, and continued urban
services. The government has approved the land registration system but the
complete implementation at Musayk has been delayed as the government is
reviewing the organizational structure of the Survey and Land Registration
Department. Bustainability of urban services, in general, depends on the
ability to mobilize funds through an efficient and equitable municipal
resource mobilizatlon system. The final results of the study for establishing
the resource mobillzation system, financed under Credit 1441-YAR, will be
delayed considerably.
9.02        The erosion of real incomes of the Civil Servants in general is
creating difficulties for MMUP to maintain the institution building efforts
achieved.  NHUP's ability to recruit anl retain suitably qualified and
experienced staff for current and future projects has been restricted. In
response to requests by MHUP and general practice at the time, IDA had granted
special salary supplements for UDPU's field staff to be paLd out of Credit
1441-YAR proceeds. Such supplements were later rescinded by the Government
since they were not considered sustainable after closure of credit.
10.   IDA Performance
10.01       IDA, at the project design stage, over estimated the Borrower's
abillity to implement, for the first time, such a multi-component venture. The
successful implementation of the project components required a complete and
detailed plan for institutional build up in urban development and changes in
the related existing Yemeni isetitutions and their mode of operation, even
though IDA had studied the project in great detail and spent a great deal of
time on preparation and appraisal. This could be explained by IDA's
unfamiliarity with the urban sector in Yemen, aLnce this project was the first
of its kind there, and the great urgency that the government had attached to
the project. Twenty two supervision missions, spread over ten years, by
experienced IDA municipal engineers, urban planners and financial analysts
provided guidance, quality control, procurement advice and additional
technical assistance, all aimed at improving the rate and quality of the
project implementation.
11.  Borrower Performance
11.01        The Borrower expressed strong commitment at the early stages of
project incepion. Soon after, the project started incurring delays related,
among other things, to institutional aspects such as: defining the role of the
General Directorate of Housing and its staff in order to eliminate conflicting
instructions; difficulty to attract and recruit expatriate staff, mainly
because of a ceiling set by Government on the salaries of foreign experts; the
lengthy review procedures of the cost recovery Steering Committee; the
selection of beneficiaries; the approval of loans to the beneficiaries; and,
the collection of down-payments for the allotted plots. The Borrower was not
able to utilize the funds accumulating at UDF for similar projects.



-9-
12.  12A -  2orrower Relationishi
12.01      The relationship between ZDA's missions and the Government and its
lmplemnting entities was generally good. issues raised by the parties were
addressed in a frank and constructive atmosphere. MMUP staff always sought
advice of IDA missions, and whenever possible, adhered to it.
13.   Consulting Services
13.01       Two consulting firms were employed to provide the required
technical assistance. The first firm was responsible for the feasibility
study and subsequently the detailed design and tender documents fort the
infrastructure Upgrading and Sites and Servicess the Pilot Shelter Scheme;
and, the Demonstration Houses. Work was completed satisfactorily. There was
a four month delay due to misinterpretation of some design standards by the
consultants. The second firm was responsible for the Land Registration System
for Sawad Sawan and Musayk. The work was completed satisfactorily.
14.   Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01      Most aspectg related to the project correspondence were well
documented in the Divisi6n and Regional files. Supervision and semi-annual
Progress reports during implementation period were generally comprehonsive.
Moreover, some documents prior to project implementation, particularly those
that related to economic and financial analysis, were missing from the project
file or misplaced.
15.  Status of Covenants
15.01       Covenants under the agreement were generally complied with. The
covenant related to cost recovery at Musayk was partially met due to the
inability to connect all the beneficiaries to the sewerage system (para.
6.03). The status of compliance with covenants is shown in Table 6, Part 111.
16.  Lessons Learned
16.01       The project was the first urban development project initiating
alternative approaches to urban development in TAR and thus provided a number
of useful lessons which are worth highlightings
(a) Institutional. Uven though the project devoted 18 percent of
the Credit towards institutional development, the institutional
reforms intended were ambitious and relatively novel and far
reaching beyond the newly created implementing agency. This
requires strong commitments on behalf of the higher levels of
Government. For future projects a more realistic implementation
schedule should be allowed for similar projects  pecially when
the implementing agency has limited experience with management of
institutional reform in projects.
It is worth mentioning, however, that the project was sucpessful
ins (i) strengthening the in-house technical capacity of UDPU to



-10-
prepare other urban development projects; and (ii) promoting close
and effective cooperation between MMUP, KNASA and Yemen Gneral
Ulectricity cogporation (YTOC)e
(b) CoCt e           ost recovery ought to be directly linked to
the actual services rndered and not contingent upon extenal
factors over whloh the implementLig agency has no control over
(paras. 6.03 & 8.03).
(c) UMbanDeeoMent Fud. Lack of explLcit mehanism  for
utilLaing the fund ln addltion to the other delays mentioned
(pWa. 6.04) resulted in the accumulation of an appzoimately  I
25 mllion balance, that could have otherwise been put to better
use. The BAR was vague in detailLng the operating mechanics of the
UDI.
(d) Upgzlna is more successful than sites and servLeos to the
extent that costs per household are lowew and hence the"r l
potentLal for wLder applicabilLty.
16.02       The limLtations of the site speclflc approach was apparent wlth
regard to site specifLc lnterventions where projedt benefLciarLes, at Swad
Sawan and Musayk, were being asked to pay for services whloh were provLded
"frees to other urban residents. Subsequent operatLons have addressd this
through a municipal resource moblizatLon study to delop a natLonal system,
and a city-wide interventLon in Tais (CR. 2160-rn).



-ll-
PROECT COmTION REPRT
SANA'A URBAN D LOPMENT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ICREDIT 1202-YAR)
PART ?I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER B PERSPECTIV
(Text a£ submitted by Borrower)
19    REFLnECTIONS ON =  PERFORMANCE OF THE B
a.    Relations between the Bank and the Borrower remained good
throughout the implementation period. Communication between the
staff of the two was constant, frank and constructive. This
cohesive relationship proved beneficial for all aspects of project
implementation.
b.    The Bank was always prompt and cooperative in dealing with various
matters relating to the credit including approval of civil works
designs and tender aocuments; clearance of withdrawal
applications; issuance of no objections to Borrower's proposals
for employment of experts, purchase of equipment, payment of a
portion of expenses out of the credit to the local staff during
their training abroad; pricing of residential plots; beneficiaries
selection criteria; cost recovery principles, conditions and
mtethod; and restructuring of the project for procurement of solid
waste management, traffic signalling, street lighting and other
equipment.
2.   REFLECTIONS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
a.   The project was conceived as a demonstration project being the
first of its kind in the Republic. Its main objectives were to
assist the government ins focusing its intervention on the
development of urban land and the provision of infrastructure for
the low income groups; strengthening and encouraging local
contractors and individual home builders to ue cost effective
building materials and construction techniques; and reinforcing
the existing Institutional framework in order to implement this
approach more systematically in the long run.
b.   For achieving the above objectives the following components were
included in the project and were successfully completed by the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning (HEUP) on behalf of the
Borrowers
(1)  UMorading The upgrading of about 70 hectares of land in the
neighborhood of Musayk (about 3300 households) was carried
out through provision of improved drainage, sanitation,
street lighting, roads and footpaths. The cLvil works were
designed by a French firm of consultants, BCEQO. The
designs were reviewed and modified by NHUP for ensuring
their suitability to the site conditions which also resulted



-12-
in substantial monetary savings. The savings were utilized
by upgrading additional areas of the neighborhood.
The civil works were executel by a Chinese firm of
contractors, China Road and Bridge Engineering Ccmpany
Limited. The project was managed by a team of foreign and
local engineers who formed part of the project unit. It was
completed within the stipulated period of two years. The
quality of work produced was good and the networks are
functioning satisfactorily since their completion in 1985.
(2)  fitt.sand Services  The development of about 26 hectares of
virgin land was carried out in the neighborhood of sawad
Sawan through provision of access roads and footpaths, water
supply and sewerage networko, street lighting and household
electricity and refuse collection and street cleaning
services. The project accommodated 1525 low income
houe'holds. As for the upgrading, designs of the civil
works were prepared by the French Consultants BC$OM. The
designs were scrutinized and modified by MHUP which resulted
in substantial monetary savings without effecting the
efficiency of t'e systems. The savings were used on
asphalting of au4itional roads within the project area. The
civil works were executed by the Chinese contractors, China
Road and Bridge Engineering Company Limited. The project
was completed within the contract period of two years. The
quality of work done was good and the systems ar operating
satisfactorily since completion of the project in 1985.
(3)   Pilot Shelter  The pilot shelter component of the project
comprised construction of 126 demonstration houses of four
basic modules and eight different designs built as models
for beneficiaries of the serviced plots. The houses were
designed to use locally produced construction materials and
to conform with low-cost building techniques. They were
suitable for the climatic conditions of Sanaa and respected
the local traditions and customs. Majority of the
beneficiaries of the serviced plots followed these designs
on construction of their own houses. The model houses were
constructed by a local contractor, Al Toweiti National
Contracting and Engineering Corporation in 1985.
These were allotted to low income persons meeting special
beneficiaries selection criteria. The houses wer promptly
occupied and the area was turned into a thriving human
settlement.
(4)   7echnical Assistanc
(a) The Develosment of Land Regigtration Policies and
roceduresa The assignment was awarded to a South Australian
firm of consultants, Sagric International. They had rich



-13-
experience of operating a modern land registration system
based on the internationally known *Torrens *system. The
consultants evolved suitable land registration procedures
including the design of title deeds, after carrying out an
extensive cadastral survey of the two project areas of
Nusayk and Sawad Sawan, and also incorporating some
important features of the current customary system. They
also drafted an amendment to existing Law No. 12 of 1976
governing land registration in the Republic. They produced
procedures and operation manuals and trained the Ministry's
staff for handling all land registration activities. The
new system was appreciated by all concerned government
departments and is being successfully implemented in Sawad
Sawn and on a new housing project under execution by MMUP.
It will also be applied on the Second Urban Development
Project in Hodiedah and on other similar projects to be
implemented by MBUP in future. The residents of Musayk had
liked the new system but are reluctant to pay the transfer
tax (3.5% of the value of property) for change over from the
existing system. It will take sometime to introduce the.new
system to the wider areas of the country.
(b) Proiect Manacement and Execution The project management
and execution was carried out by a Project Unit established
in the Department of Housing of the Ministry. The unit was
commanded by an expatriate Project Manager. The duties and
responsibilities of the Project Unit and its Manager were
satisfactory to the Bank. The unit included a number of
other foreign experts (Chief Engineer, Implementation
Engineer, Building Construction Expert, Design Enginser,
socio Economist, Financial Analyst etc) and their technical,
managerial and administrative experience, knowledge and
skills contributed to the successful management and
execution of the project. Suitably qualified local staff
also formed an integral part of the unit. They gradually
took over from the expatriate experts and performed
extremely well on the preparation, management and
supervision of execution of subsequent projects.
No major problems were encountered during the execution of
civil works which were completed on tim.. After completion
the works were handed over to YGEC, NWASA and Project
Department of MIUP for operation and maintenance. However,
the other activities like selection of beneficiaries,
allotment of serviced plot. and model houses, payment of
housing construction loans, cost recovery etc took longer
time since the project was first of its kind in the country
and HIHP did not have the necessary framework to deal with
these matters. The procurement of additional oquipmnt for
disposal of municipal waste, traffic signalling and street
lighting after restructuring the credit also took long time
due to procedural requirements.



-14-
(c) Training of Proiect Staff and the PXeOaration of Future
Pro2icte The training of Yemeni staff remained one of the
major goals of the project. Suitably qualified counterparto
were assigned to the expatriate engineers, socio economist
and architect/planner on urban planning, engineering and
procurment. A team of about 30 Yemeni staff was directly
employed on implementation of various project components who
gained valuable experLence and confidence to organise, plan
and manage integrated urban development projects. The
Second Urban Development Project at Hodf edah (Credit 1441)
was completely designed in-house by employing foreign
experts and Yemeni counterparts as one team. The designs,
specifications and drawings were prepared after extensive
survey and study of site conditions and in close
coordination with the concerned agencies like Yemen general
Electricity Corporation, National Water and Sanitation
Authority, Telephones Department etc. The tender documents
were prepared in accordance with the World Bank procedures
and the procurement of goods and works was carried out in
conformity with the Dank's Guidelines. For the third urban
project in Yemen, Tais Flood Disaster Prevention and
Municipal Development Project (Credit 2160), foreign
consultants were employed for designing and preparation of
tender documents due to the peculiarity and uniqueness of
the flood control works. However, the Yemeni counterpart
staff fully participated in all aspects of project
preparation. They are exclusively managing the
implementation of the project, the only exception being an
expatriate Advisor (Construction Engineer) who i employed
due to the special design of hydraulic structures which form
bulk of the civil works. The Emergency Recovery Project
(Housing Sites Component) under Credit 2258 has been planned
and designed exclusively by the Yemeni engineers who will
also manage the construction phase. The following Yemeni
staff were trained abroad and a portion of their expesems
was paid out of the proceeds of Credits 1202 and 1441.



-15-
Insftitute                 Subiect                     Sitaff XTalnd
Institute of Housing       Housing/                    18 ungineers/
Studies, Rotterdam,        Urban Planning              Architects
The Netherlands
Japanese International     Housing/                    4 Enginears
Cooperation Agency,        Urban Planning
Tokyo, Japan
Eagric International,      Cadastral Surveying         2 Engineers
Adelaide# Australia
Halcrow Fox and            Designing of flood          3 Engineers
Associates, London,        disaster prevention and
ingland                    road structures and
proparation of tender
documents
(5)  Housina Loans and Assistance to Housina Credit Bank &_CD
To facilitate low income beneficiaries of Sawad Sawan sites
and services project build their houses, a sum of YR 60,000
was advanced as a loan to those who applied for it and who
qualified under the selection procedure. The loan was paid
through the Housing Credit Bank of Yemen. A Subsidiary Loan
Agreement was signed between MHUP and HCB after obtaining
approval of its terms and conditions from the World Bank. A
sum equivalent to SDR 2,600,000 was relent to HCD who
distributed it to 699 beneficiaries under the agreed
procedure. The MCD li recovering the loan ln easy
installments from the beneficiaries. To assist MCB staff in
carrying out the operation, the services of an expatriate
housiAng finance expert were provided. he helped MCD
management to design and develop appropriate operating
procedures and policies, reviewed Lnternal controls and
proposed methodology for lmproving record keepLig and loan
collectlon practices.
(6) Selection of Beneficiaries A special commLttee comprising
officials from MHUP, Xlnistry of Planning and Development,
HousLng Credit Bank, Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
and Ministry of Civil Services was constituted to draft
selection criteria, conditLons and procedures for allotment
of serviced plots and demonstration houses, to scrutinize
and verify the correctness of the information provided by
the applicants, select deserving candidates and to make
recommendatLons to MHUP for final selection of the
beneficiaries. The committee performed its duties well. A
number of bogus applications were rejected and the selection
was carried out in a fair manner. The World Bank approved



-16-
the design criteria, conditions and procedures ef allotment
before comencement of the operation.
(7) Urban Dkveloument Fund Under a special law issued by R..
The Prime Minister, an Urban Development Fund was
estLblished in the Urban Development Department of MMUP. A
special account was opened with the Central Bank of Yemen
for the purpose of depositing therein the amounts received
from the beneficiaries from the sals of serviced plots and
demonstx. ;.on houses; from NWASA for cost recovery from
residents of Musayk; and payment by MCD against funds
advanced for housing construction loans. The proceeds of
the Fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing
further urban development schemes in the country.
(8)   Cost Recoverv About 80 percent of the project costs are
being recovered from the beneficiaries through improvement
charges related to upgrading in Nusayk and developmeat of
sites and services in Sawad Sawan. The costs which would be
fully recovered include site preparation, land registration
survey, on site infrastructure, design and supervision,
project administration, provision for default and UWASA
collection fee. Ixpenditures not directly recovered from
beneficiaries but through tariffs included the cost of
off ite water supply. Other expenditures not recovered
included cost of technical asaistance, short term training
and travel, special advisory services, equipment and office
supplies. For sites and services in 8awad Sawan the cost
was computed on per square meter basis and also included the
cost of virgin land. The cost of upgrading in Musayk was
calculated on per building basis and is being recovered
through IWABA with whom XHUP signed a separate agreement for
this purpose. Cost recovery for sites and services at 8awad
Sawan is being effected directly by MHMP. The cost recovery
principles conditions and procedures were approved by the
Bank prior to their application.
(9)    epo9rtina  On project implementation and auditing of project
accounts was carried out on time. The format of six monthly
progress reports was agreed with the Bank's supervisory
staff and all required information on technical, financial
and administrative aspects of the project was included in
it. The reports included all important events zihich took
place during the project implementation.
(10)  Comnliance wlth covenants NHUP remained seriously committed
to the agreed covenants which were closely monitored an4
necessary actions taken to meet them by the due dates.
I!



-17-
..      3.    LN          &N
a.   The project objectiLves hould bo kept in mind during all phaes of
lts lmplementation and should not be devlated.
b.   Tue prject sites should be free from all encumbrances an  any
onershlp or other dliputes be settled before comencement of the
exeutlon of the project.
C.   Designs of civLi works should be ldependently audited to ensure
offlcileny and cost effectiveness.
d.   Coordination with all concered agencies be maintained before and
during implementation of the projowt for enuring compliance with
the required standards and spclfications and to prevent damaging
of existing utility llnes during execution.
o.   The key to successful completion of civil works is the contractor.
He should be capable, competent and resourceful. Due car be
taken during prequallflation or post qualification to choose
suitable contractors.
f.   The world Bank guidelines and procedures coverlng all aspects of
lproject lmplementatlon be properly followed and a close and
constant coordination malntained with the Bank.



PROJECT CompLffnON REPORT
SANA A URBAN DEVELMENT PROJECT CQOMPLETIN REPORT
(CREOIT 1202-YARI
PART 111:S  STCAL INFORIITiO1
1. Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title        Purpose                        Approval        Status           Comments
Cr. 1441-YAR        0Strengthen efforts to provide  1984           Closed           Physical works
2nd Urban           affordable infrastructure to low-              03/92            implementation
Development         Income people in Hodeidah                                       completed successfuly.
through introduction of suitable                                Poor performance of the
standards.                                                      consultants caused
olnstitutional strengthening of                                further delay to cost
Hodeidah Office of MHUP.                                       recovery and resouwce
eComprehensive resource                                        mobilization.
mobilization study to finance
urban projects.
OTraining and preparation for
future projects.
Cr. 2160-YEM        eProvide city of Talz with     1990            Ongoing          Project is a!most fuly
Takz Flood Disaster   essential floel control works.                                cormitted. Continuous
Prevention &        sImplementing a project cost                                    delays In staffina key
Municipal           recovery mecharism at municipal                                 positions. Resource
Development         level.                                                          mobilization study Is
*Strengthening MHUPs                                           short of requirements.
institutional capabilities.
Cr. 2258-ROY        eHelp meet immediate retumee-   199'           Ongoing          Site locations has been
Emergency Recovery  induced needs for housing                                       determined. Plot
Credit Housing Sites  facilities by providing 2,500                                 allocations and
Component           serviced sites.                                                 procurement works are
progressing.
Source: ECA/MENA Information Center



2.    Prolect Timetal2
Planned              Revised              Actual
htem                                             Date                 Date                 Date
IdentIfication                                   03/79                03/79                J3/79
Preparation                                      04/80                08/79"'              07179
02/80"'
05/80"'2
12/80"m
02/811"
Pe-appraisal                                     07/80                10179
06/80
09/80
04/81                04/81
Appraisal                                        09/80                01/80
08/80
12180
06/81                06/81
Credit Negotiations                                                   11/81                12/81
8oard Presentation/Approval                                           08/80
04/81
12/81               01/82
Credit Signure                                                                             02/82
Credit Effectiveness                                                                       06/82
Credit aosing                                    12187                12/88
12/89
12/90
12/91
06/92                06/92
Source: Project Files
omm:
(1) The Government of YAR expressed urgency for accelerating schedule.
(2) Missions to 3view progress of project preparation.



-20-
(US$ nIllion)
AppaiSal Estimate                  Actual
Ending     .   Disbursed    Cumulative    Pecenmag   Disbursed    Cumulatve    Pecenta
06182          0.00         0.00          0.0        0.00         0.00          0.0
12/82          0.00         0.00         0.0         0.76         0.76          5.1
06/83           1.7201       1.72        11.4        0.15         0.91          6.1
12/83          1.30         3.02         20.1        0.78         1.69         11.4
06/84           1.92         9.94        32.9        0.86         2.55         17.2
12/84          2.90         7.84         52.2        1.57         4.12         27.8
06/85          2.66         10.51        70.0        1.20          5.32        35.9
12/85          1.60         12.10        80.6        0.83         6.15         41.5
06/88           1.15        13.26        88.3        0.87          7.02        47.3
12/86          1.09         14.33        98.5        0.41         7.43         50.1
06/87          0.67         1 .00        100.0       0.46         7.89         53.2
12187                                                0.12         8.01         54.0
06/88                                                 1.56         9.57        64.5
12188.                                               0.06         9.63         64.9
06/89                                                0.00         9.63         64.9
12/89                                                0.35         9.98         67.3
08/90                                                1.49         11.47        77.3
12/90                                                0.00         11.47        77.3
08/91                                                0.59         12.06        81.3
12/91                                                1.66         13.72        92.5
06/92                                                0.99         14.71"       99.2
12/92                                                0.38         14.83        100.0
Souc: Project Files
CDommentb*
(1) Indudes PPF and Fin Dsign
(2) SOR 0.26 niiUon woe canceld frm CraDt As Of 11/27/92 tot value disbured was SOR 12.54 mnkU.
Sans a Lk-ban Development CCR 1202-YAR)
14
14
I~~~~~~~~          A   6S1
~~~~~~0   tol ° 4    to
...



-21-
4. Bui,m Imalamon
Appraisal
dioer                                                         Estmate              Actual
1. IDIiALWQ wlC3 aQ  iJilXh and Sawad Sawa
- Completion of bidding document                       03'82                05/82
- Compltion of tener procedures                        10/82                04183
- Commencement of construction                         11182                05/83
- Completion of consuction                             03/85                01/88
U.a
- Compltion of idding documents                        03182                0484
- Completion of tender procedus                        11183                07/84
- Commencement of construction                         12/83                12/86
- Completion of constuction                            03185                09/87
MU.    
- Commencement of loan applications, Musayk            06184                (1)
- Completion of disburemnt. Museyk                     12/85                41)
- Commencement of loan applications, Sawad Sawan       04/85                02/88
- Completion of disbursement. Sawad Sawan              01/87                07/91
IV. S ius
- Commencement of land reoistation study               12186                01/87
- Competion of lend registration study                 08/88                06/89
- Convnencement of feasibility study (Urban n)         09/83                05/83
- Completion of feasibility study (urban U)            08/84                10/84
V. SegMln f aBInaiciaries and CMsReovery
Setting Selection Committae                           09/84                04/85
- Identification of beneficares, Musayk                07182-12183          11184
- Selection of bnaficiaries, Sawad Sawan               10184                05/88
- Stat cost recovery, Musayk                           06/84                03/87
- Stat cost recovry, Sawed Sawan                       06/85                02f88
Source: Projet Files
Commnts: (1) No loans were issued for upgrading at Musayk.



-22-
5. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant      Subject                                 Compliance        status
CA 2.04       Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987.                  Extended to June 30, 1992.
CA 3.01(b)    Borrower to enter into SLA with HCB for    03/82          Met
Part B.
CA 3.05       Borrower to establish PU In Dept. of                      Met
Housing of MHUP; appoint/retain project
manager.
CA 3.06(a)    Borrower to apply satisfactory beneficiary                Met
selection criteria for Sawad Sawan site.
CA 3.06(b)    Borrower to establish staff selection  09/84              Met
committee for selecting project
beneficiaries.
CA 3.07       Borrower to establish satisfactory      12/82             Met
accounting for separate project accounts
in MHUP.
CA 3.07       Borrower to establish satisfactory      12/83            Met
accounting for project accounts in HCB.
CA 3.08       Borrower to ensure appropriate pricing and                Met
cost recovery principles.
CA 4.01(b)    Borrower to cause HCB to retain records
of expenditures for one year after closing.
CA            Borrower to cause MHUP to have FY      08/89              Met through FY92.
4.02(i)(ii)   project accounts audited, furnished to IDA
within 8 months.
CA 4.03(SL)   Borrower to extend Sanaea solid waste   12/82             Met
services to Musayk.
CA 4.04       Borrower to ensure that sale of plots                     Met
developed under A(i)(ii) shall be made
under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.
CA 4.05       Borrower to promptly implement the land                   Started, but is subject to delays.
registration policy procedures under A(iv)
satisfactory to IDA.
CA 4.07(a)    Borrower to establish in Central Bank of  01/84           Met
Yernen a revolving fund for receipts of
beneficiary payments and salea.
CA 4.07(b)    Borrower to use proceeds of revolving                     Started
fund solely for financing further urban
development scheme.



-23-
Status of Covenants (continued)
Deadline for
Covenant   Subject                                      Compliance          Status
CA 4.08    Borrower to consult with IDA prior to implementing               Partially met
management & organizatonal reforms in HCO
based on recommendation of experts.
CA 4.09(a)  Borrower to enter into appropriate agreements  05/82            Met in 11/81
with NWASA & YGEC re water & sewerage, and
household electricity respectively.
CA 4.09(b)  Borrower to enter into satisfactory agreement with  05/82       Met in 11/81
NWASA re collection of charges under A(l) & Iii).
SL 3.06    Appointment of Project Manager.              05/81               Met in 05/81
Appointment of Chief Engineer.               03/82              Met in 03/82
Appointment of Implementation Engineer.      03/82              Met in 07/83
Appointment of Financial Analyst.            03/82              Met in 03/82
Appointment of Socio-Economist.              03/82              Met in 01/83
Appointment of Communications Expert.        06/82              Met in 01/83
Appointment of Land Registration Advisor.    07/82              Met in 06/86
Appointment of Building Construction Specialist  01/83          Met in 01/83
Appointment of Housing Finance Advisor.      07/83              Met in 01/86
SL 3.08    Borrower to implement cost recovery according to   12/81         Met with restrictions due to
pricing policy acceptable to IDA.                               inability to connect to sewerage
system.
MN 3.05    Project Unit to submit to IDA a semi-annual   12/89              Compiled with through 12/91
progress reports.
Source: Project Files



-24-
6. Anorasal and Actual C=s
Item                                     Appraisal Estimate   Actua Cosa
(all values are In miion unws)
yRts      use      vats''     usMO
A.lnfra_tructum Unoradino A Rin and S
1. Musayk Upgrading                     18.03      4.00     34.05       5.72
2. Sawad Sawan Sites & ServIces         17.26      3.84      19.99      3.36
B.t Shelter & lgouslane Schm
1. Demonstraon Houses                    9.27      2.06     13.80       2.32
2. Bulding Construction Expet            1.12      0.25      0.63       0.11
3. Credit Facilities                    22.50      5.00     38.86       6.53
4. Housing Fmance Expert                 1.19      0.26      0.15       0.03
C. Insfltutional DevloMWz=
1. Land Roegiraon                        1.67      0.37      3.20       0.54
2. Project Management & Execution        9.36      2.08      8.91       1.50
3. Traning & Prepaation of fuure         2.86      0.63      3.95       0.63
prolects
Q. Proiec Prearaio
1. PP & Fia Design                      4.06       0.90      3.96       0.66
E Proiect Administration & Eauhment      2.88      0.65     40.69       6.84
Total Base Cost                         90.19     20.04    159.74      28.23
Contngencies                            26.81      5.96     28.32       4.76
Total Project Cost                     117.00     26.00    196.30      32.99
Source: Project Files. Urban Development Projects Unit Accowuns (MHUP).
Note: Numbers might not add up exactly due to rounding off.
(1) UDPU accomunts supplied
(2) Based on an average oxche rate over life of project of US 0.16806/YRi.



-25-
7. Appraisal gnd Actual Projegt Finganino       (US$ million)
Planned              Revised
Credit               Credit
Source                                        Agreement"'   %       Agreement'2'   %     Final3         %
1A- Demonstration Houses                       0.84          40     0.80           40     0.89          40
16- Other Civil Works                          4.31          50     6.02           50     4.80          50
2 - Equipment & Materials'4'                   0.42          100    3.49          100    3.18           100
3 - Construction Loans                         2.34          50     2.57           60     2.27          60
4 - Consultants' Services                      3.50          100    3.47          100    2.58           100
5 - Refunding Project Preparation Advances     0.46          100    0.46          100    0.38           100
6 - Un-allocated                               2.25                 0.13                  0.04
Cancellations                               0.00                  0.35                  0.35
Total IDA                                     14JJ.Z169                                   14.12
Domestic                                      11.4                                        188
Total                                         23
Source: Project files, Urban Development Projects Units's accounts (MHUP)
Notes: Numbers might not add up exacty due rounding off.
Values in USS were obtained from Credit Agreement Schedule 1 by converting the SDR value using the equivalent
disbursement fate.
(1) 1982 equivalent disbursement rate US$ 1.103/SDR.
12) 1991 equivalent disbursement rate US$ 1.3521SDR.
(3) SDR and US8 as supplied by disbursement records.
14) Savings in Credit were used to purchase equipment, approximately US$ 3 million.



-26-
8. MiAsign Daa
Type of Mission          MonIYr    0 of Persons   Days in Field   Performance Rating    Types of Problems
A- Ug IQ A1Rrais
Identification           03/79     6              16            Not Applicable
Di3cussionsi"l           04/79      1             19            Not Applicable
Discussions"'            06/79      1             8             Not Applicable
Preparation I            07/79      1             4             Not Applicable
Preparation If           01/80     2              8             Not Applicable
Discussions"'r           02/80      1             22            Not Applicable
Preparation Ill          05/80      2             6             Not Applicable
Discussions"'            05180      1             17            Not Applcable
Discussions"'            06/80      1             7             Not Applicable
Discussions'l'           09/80      1             16            Not Applicable
Preparation IV           12180      3             13            Not Applicable
Pre-appraisal            04/81      3             i6            Not Applicable
B- Appraisal to Board Agoroval
Appraisal                06/81      4             15            Not Applicable
Pre-egotiation           11/81      2             11            Not Applicable
Discussions"'            02/82      1             11            Not Applicable
Final Desgn Review       02/82      1             3             Not Applicable
C- Board Anproval to Effectiveness
=- Sutmervision
Supervision 1            05/82     3              10            1
Supervision l11          12182     2              8             1
Supervision III          05183      1             4             1
Supervision IV           10/83     2              11            1
Supervision V            02/84     2              3             1
Supervision VI           08/84     2              12            1
Supervision Vill         10184      1             8             1
Country Review           02185      1             16            Not Applicable
Supervision Vill't       05/85     2              10            1/2                   Managerial
Supervision IX           10/85      2             11            2                     Managerial
Supervision X            01/86      2             12            2                     Managerial
Supervision Xl('         06/86      1             8             2                     Managerial
Supervision XilI"        10/86     2              12            2                     Managerial
Supervision XJIII"       02/87      1             9             2                     Managerial
Supervision XIV"'        10/87     3              13            2                     Managerial
Supervision XV"'         02/88     2              10            2                     Managerial
Supervision XVI          01/89      2             14            2                     Managerial
Supervision XVII"        10/89      2             10            2                     Managerial
Supervision XVIU         01/90      1             10            2                     Managerial
Supervision XIX'         11/90      1             15            2                     Managerial
Supervision XX'          06/91      2             30"'          2                     Managerial
Supervision XXI"Z        11/91      1             16            2                     Managerial
Supervision/Completionr'    02192   3             16            2                     Managerial
Source: Project Files
Note: The main managerial problems were due to coordination difficultes and clear line of authority at MMH, lengthy
bureaucratic procedures and the reluctance of some project entities to enforce instutional reforms envisaged at appraisal.
(1) Included Discussions on other sectors
(2) Included work on other projects in Urban Sector
(3) Ramadan Holidays coincided with mission



9 .   Roottomi. fOto of natnure o2toona                      At o.
1       2        2        4       S        6        7        a       9       10      t1       12       12
roar                                                       1te2    1s8s    1904    1965    lse6    1967    1ts6    1969    1990    1991    1992                19J    1994
Project Costs (1000 Val                               the cost str-one extend to 20 Feoro.
Lead (1)                                           06,750
site development oost (2)                                   10,016  18,016  16,016
Orno boeuoo  (6)                                                                       6,901   4,901
Adel  expenson  (6)                                 1,040      800   1,140   1,140       440      484      522    5B6       644      709      779
Lanoal operatione (2)                                                    20       S0   1,660   1,646   2,02s   2,226   2,460   2,706   2,016   2,702   2,702
PrJecat preporetion (64                             3,945
total cost streoa                                  9S,725  10,666  19,106  19,226   9,021   9,2SS   2,S65   2,022   2,104   2,414   2,156   2,702   2,702
Prjoot sonofit- (1000 Ta)                             the benefit *trensD extend to 30 years.
Avoraqo X0cthly RaottUonscbold (Tm) (4)          300      400      450     S00      S50      600      650     725      900    1060    1200    1200    1200
Rental value(S)                                    11,660  15,640  17,820  19,600  21,04S  34,140  37,625  41,970  52,110  57,900  69,400  69,400  69,400
sele price. of demo and cosorcial plots                                                               171e49   1,000
total bonefit &treoa                               11,600  15,840  17,620  19,600  S1,845  S4,740  s5,404  42,976  S2,110  57,900  69,460  69,400  89,480
net bDeefit (loe0  (1000 TR)                           (01,855) (2,026) (1i,66)    S64  22,024  2S,S07  52,919  40,156  49,006  54,406  S,724  66,770  66,770
0D1 Doflator (6)                                             61       74       76      64      100      112      12S     122      122      166     170      170      17e
Roal met benefit close) (1000 Tl)                      (129.929) (4,009) (1,7971    671  22,624  22,572  42,022  22,647  26,047  22,023  26,924  37,516  27,516
sta a-,G 
Vote.,
(1)  Lond cost at market price,  uasayks *ai  l00/n2# ateed Sewens 13l 7S?a2.
(2)  Includes site preparation, eon-ito infreotroetare, share of off-afte infraatrtetare allocable to the oite.
(2)  rigareo apto 1991 were aeppliod by USUP. Oabsequont year. are projected at S  of the infreatrectero e  st.
(4)  Setimatoe  of average monthly rent for hoaeeholds An those two areoa  by 5301 staff, february 1992.
(5)  Sxcladeo  increaaod rental values La spill-off areas.
(63  &oeaos& d-feltor remoinso  onstant after 1992



-28-
1 0.A Profile of Beneficiadres
Sawad Sawan:
1.    Total number of beneficiaries are 1525 families.
2.     Breakdown of beneficiaries ay household average monthly income:
Average-Monthly Incgme 4YR)                       Number of beneficiaries
999 or less                                          3
1000- 1500                                          416
1501 - 2000                                         469
2001 - 2500                                         484
2501 - 3000                                         133
3001 and over                                       20
3.     Breakdown of beneficiaries by number of persons per household:
Number of gersons ner
household                      Number of beneficiaries               Perea=
10                              37                                 1.5
9                              29                                  2
8                              346                                12
7                              184                                10
B                              250                                22
6                              284                                25
4                              14                                 17
3                              121                                 6
2                              121                                 2.5
1                               9                                  2
4.    All plots have been allotted. 229 Plots have no houses on theem yet.
Source: Telex form MHUP dated September 8, 1992.



-29-
10.8  Profile of Beneficiaries
Muszh:
1.    Total nunber of beneficiaries are 3300 households.
2.    Breakdown of benefticiaries by household average monthly income:
Averaae Monthly Inggme IYR)                     Number of beneficiaries
500 - 1500                                       927
1501 - 2500                                      1367
2501 - 3500                                      643
3501 - 4500                                       190
4501 - 6500                                       117
5501 - 6500                                        9
6501 - 8000                                       47
3.    Breakdown of beneficiaries by number of persons per household:
Number of nersons nRr
household                    Numiner of beneficiaries             Perentaae
10                            82                                1.5
9                             50                                2
8                            330                               12
7                            660                               10
6                            398                               22
5                            759                               25
4                            495                               17
3                            363                                6
2                            132                                2.6
1                             33                               2
Source: Telex form MHUP dated September 8, 1992.



IBRD 16031F
.  _ ._ __ _  . .  ARA8\ \   AR
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                         REly Tv   SAD ARAI
SANA'A  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    m\SAUOI ARABIA
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITES                                                           SUDAN
0~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~ K                       THIOPIA.
Areas developed undet prolect                                     To Aii'poff                               KENYA
Reserved project area for sites
ond services
:71 Built-up Areo
-      Moior Poved Roods                                            /- \                                      - __ --   -
toposed Poved Roods (Non-prolect)                                                                           SAWAN
Unpoved Trocks                                                                                            SITES AND
.    .             {      .                ~~~~~~~~SERVICES  :    4
METERS                               i  .         ..                      .      
0  Soo  1000~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MGST19
°     1000  p2C60tt  360tt  4000        f-sg/
Ring  RoOOl         .    .-
eXPTt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Va amp hu bwan* jimo_A,  
by lb,* ,,t   axW  .  in off 
fh the                                         @ 
cn=m*dw  on                                          Rin moeci
am, v~m
¢d~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG IMt 



IBD 16032R.
\S°t°s4w-91-\- s ¢6oomm~~~~c   #         SANA'A  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                         S  xAU ARAAw
7\n8   ||t                                                  MUZAIK UPGRADING INFRASTRUCTURE                ^ tt         _ot
t  ffi o t 2E                                      ~~~~~~ ~                    ~ ~ ~~IMPROEMENTSX
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p1 &-am LI M                                                       ET.,um 
C e ; e l - 3 | Z fa X 0 ~~~~~~~~~~P"   mwso ot l
at'?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tata



IBRD1 033J
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAWAD SAWAN SITE LAYOUT AND OFFSITE INFRASTRUCTURE NETWORK
DEVELOPED UNDER PROJECT:
Site Boundory                  Primary Roads
LCI=] Porks                           Secondary Roods
E~U1  School Areos                -   Access by footpoth and
/  S7l Mosque Area                      unpaved road
Commerciol Areo          -  -  Sewerage Line
Demonstrotion Houses           Power Line
rO Wodi So///o     -                             L   I Service Plots                l  Power Sub-stotion
I%    I 300mm1W                                                                    -      Water Supply Line
0   Ground Reservoir
--Drainage Lines
EXISTING:
ff1ff  Settlements
Unpaved Trock
Sub- staio      Hamdi                                                   > 
.    .... ... I   .... 111
- .   1.. .   ..    .....il   ... i 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O sW. .e of .h Wod l ee k
North Eost    I I  Ve
Sub-sto tion
o   00     20       0      40 MEER                                                          Arn   j
I  I I
0           500          1000          1500 FEET                       |       L                 rbo
|0               50EYAtj
"' A.s -O-'m'    St



