Document of                rflj COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3182-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SANAA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 4, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                      December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)             YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                4.50
YR1 I =  $0.22                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January I to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB      Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO      Central Planning Organization
HCB      Housing Credit Bank
IBY      Industrial Bank of Yemen
MMH      Ministry of Municipalities and Housing
NWSA     National Water and Sewerage Authority
YAR      Yemen Arab Republic
YGEC     Yemen General Electricity Corporation
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights:  12.8 million
(approximately US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:   The proposed project is the first urban development
project to be undertaken by YAR. It aims to estab-
lish a basic model for urban development schemes that
would be replicable in other urban areas of YAR, and
focus on providing services to the lowest income
groups; develop the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Municipalities and Housing (MMH) to
effectively address critical urban problems, particu-
larly in the fields of land registration, shelter and
related services; and promote the use of cost effec-
tive building materials and construction techniques.
The main project components include:
(a) infrastructure upgrading and provision of site
and services;
(b) pilot shelter and housing finance schemes; and
(c) provision of technical assistance towards the
institutional development of MMH and the Housing
Credit Bank.
The project would address the needs of the poorest
segments of the population in the capital city of
Sanaa. Improvements to be provided through infra-
structure upgrading would benefit about 22,000 people
and the site and services program would benefit about
11,000 people. The main project risks are: (i)
shortage of qualified administrative and technical
staff; (ii) possibility of higher income groups
obtaining urban services targeted to the lower income
population; and (iii) higher construction costs than
forecast. These have been minimized through appro-
priate project management and design features.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost;                             Local        Foreign        Total
(Project costs are exempted
from custom duties and taxes)
-----…        million----------
A. Infrastructure Upgrading and
Sites and Services
Muzaik Upgrading                     1.9           2.1           4.0
Sawad Sawan Site and Services        1.5           2.3           3.8
B. Pilot Shelter and Housing
Finance Scheme
Demonstration Houses                 1.3           0.8           2.1
Credit Facilities                    2.5           2.5           5.0
Consultant and Advisory Services   0.1             0.4           0.5
C.  Institutional Development                0.3           2.8           3.1
D.  Project Preparation 1/                    -            0.9           0.9
E.  Project Administration                   0.5           0.1           0.6
Base Cost                                  8.1          11.9         20.0
Physical contingencies                    0.5           0.6            1.1
Price contingencies                        2.8           2.1          4.9
Subtotal                                  3.3           2.7           6.0
Total                                  11.4          14.6          26.0
Financing Plan:                             Local       Foreign         Total
-----------$ million----------…
IDA Credit                                0.4          14.6          15.0
Government                                11.0            -           11.0
Total                                  11.4          14.6          26.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY        1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
…_____________  mllion…-------------
Annual                                     1.7     3.2      5.6     2.8      1.7
Cumulative                                 1.7     4.9    10.5    13.3    15.0
Estimated Completion Date: June 1987
Rate of Return:               25 percent 2/
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report No. 3642-YAR, dated December 30, 1981.
1/ Including $480,000 from Project Preparation Facility.
2/ For components having quantifiable benefits, representing 77 percent of
project costs.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SANAA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 12.8 million (approximately $15.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance an Urban Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a Coun-
try Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report on
manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and an Urban Sec-
tor Report (No. 2699-YAR), dated Marcb 1981, have been distributed to the
Executive Directors. Country data are attacbed in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution suc-
ceeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the founda-
tions of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by
the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foun-
dations for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to bave
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980,
but which seems to have dropped below this level in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially



in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Altbougb the most critical shortages are in the
skilled and professional occupations, even the unskilled work force was under
strain during the height of the labor migration to neigbboring countries.
However, it appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recent-
ly eased somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
manpower limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and im-
plement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government rev-
enue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small. Most
budget revenue is derived from import duties, while otber sources of taxation
are still largely undeveloped.  So far, budget deficits have been covered
through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to diminish in
relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to
broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and devise new
schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission, with IMF
participation, addressed these and related issues, and its draft report was
discussed witb the Government in November 1981. The Government has already
implemented some of the mission's recommendations.
Government Objectives
9.        The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81). It has endeavored to develop human re-
sources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Preliminary progress reports on the first four years of the
Plan indicate that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met
except in the agriculture sector where output has stagnated and actual growth
fell considerably below targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment
of marginal rain-fed areas whose income opportunities could not compete with
the opportunities of migration.
10.       The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) is cur-
rently underway. In this context, the Government bad initially asked the
Bank for assistance in reviewing major development issues, and in evaluating
priorities in sectors in whicb IDA is involved so as to channel resources
into the most desirable areas. This work has been completed. More recently,
at the request of the Government, the Bank agreed to act as executing agency
for a UNDP-financed project that assists in overseeing the inputs to be used
by the Central Planning Organization in the preparation of the plan.



- 3-
Economic Growth and Structural Cbange
11.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79. 1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflec-
ting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government ser-
vices, and of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of
modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables,
fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important eco-
nomic sector in YAR, was relatively stagnant and in some cases contracted.
12.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new mar-
kets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private invest-
ment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This coin-
cided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the Government
increased its capital expenditures from close to YRIs 60 million ($13 mil-
lion) in 1972/73 to around YRIs 2.5 billion ($555 million) in 1979/80.
Domestic and External Finance
13.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million, which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national sav-
ings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large
part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of whom
are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of the coun-
try and different population groups.
14.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following tbree years tax revenue more than
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses, which in
1977/78 reached YRIs 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRIs 315 million ($70 million)
as a result of the continued large expansion of expenditures. The recent
Bank mission to review domestic resource mobilization, as well as a subse-
quent IMF Article IV Consultation mission, expressed concern that the overall
I/ The Government, with United Nations/Economic Commission for Western Asia
(UN/ECWA) assistance, has recently revised the country's entire national
accounts series. A Bank economic updating mission visited Yemen in
November 1981 to look into these revisions. Its analysis will be
reported in a forthcoming country economic memorandum. The figures in
Annex I and the following discussion are based on the unrevised series.



- 4 -
budgetary position deteriorated rapidly as of 1978/79 and the overall deficit
has been on the order of YRls 2 billion-2.5 billion ($445 million-$555 mil-
lion) per annum.
15.       YAR's external financial position has also changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was
in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country sub-
sequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this change must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and private
transfers, as well as in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations. However, the last two years or
so have witnessed a stabilization in the levels of remittances and transfers,
and since imports continued their rapid growth, the balance of payments has
also deteriorated sharply. As a result, there has been a significant run on
the country's foreign reserve holdings.
16.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
17.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to more than $1.5 billion by the end of 1980. The
principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, the Gulf States, IDA, China,
Germany and the USA.
18.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the ex-
treme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority
and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants,
YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on
these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $417 million in 1980.
Most of the official loans and credits have been committed for the financing
of specific projects, with the main emphasis on roads; agriculture, including
irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
19.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have



- 5 -
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
20.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1980 was
estimated at $1603 million, of which $727 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, IDA, the Arab Fund, China, Germany and
the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits accounted for $201 million or about 13 percent
of the total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrow-
ing, the debt service payments amounted to $18 million for 1980, equivalent
to around I percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-eighth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $269.3 million. 1/ Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and Bank grants, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects, as of September 30, 1981. The World
Bank strategy in YAR has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the
basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequi-
sites for development, to develop production and income in the dominant pro-
ductive sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA
has extended three credits for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million
credit for a port development project, four credits for water supply and
sewerage totalling $36.4 million, and $22 million for two power distribution
projects. To assist in the development of education, IDA has extended three
credits for a total of $29 million, in support of primary and secondary
teacber training, secondary technical and vocational education and training
of public administration personnel, institution building and the Faculty of
Engineering at the University of Sanaa. To develop rural infrastructure and
to support production and distribution in agriculture, fisheries and agro-
industry, IDA has made nine credits for a total of $106.4 million. To
develop industry, IDA extended a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an indus-
trial estate project designed to stimulate investment for small-scale
industry as well as to provide a model for future industrial development and
a $12 million credit in March 1981 to assist in the development of the Indus-
trial Bank of Yemen as an effective development finance company; in FY1978 an
investment of $2.4 million by the International Finance Corporation was
approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
1/ Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR and a fourtb education credit for $12 million
which is being processed simultaneously, and excluding the $7.0 million
credit for the Textile Rebabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which
was cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
22.       The main constrainit to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Batik strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture. In CPO, the World Bank (through three grants
totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team of planning and
economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery. In the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the Bank supplies the services of seven advisors initially
financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now financed jointly
by TDA (under the Second Tihama project), the EEC Special Action Fund and
UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which carries out agricul-
tural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part of this
institutional support.
23.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and health, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation. A fourth education credit
was negotiated in December 1981 and it is also scheduled for consideration by
the Executive Directors today. A first health project, a first energy pro-
ject to provide assistance in energy resource exploration and an agricultural
research project have been appraised; a building materials project, a fourth
highways project and an agricultural credit project are in the preparation
stage. Future projects are expected to include power, water supply and rural
development activities,
24.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects bave led to about $294 mil-
lion equivalent of cofinancing from otber aid donors.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Trends
25.       IJrban growth in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) is a relatively
recent phenomenon which began in the early 1970s. Whereas the total resident
population of YAR, estimated at about 5.3 million in 1975, has grown at about



2.9 percent per annum over the last decade to about 6 million in 1980, the
total urban population estimated at about 365,000 in 1975, has grown at about
7.7 percent per annum over the same period to about 530,000 in 1980. Rural-
urban migration, especially of males who leave their families in the country-
side, has accounted for most urban growth. If such trends continue, the YAR
urban population, which now stands at around 8 percent of the total popula-
tion, will increase to 2.2 million, i.e., 20 percent of the expected YAR
total resident population, by the year 2000. Higher population growtb, lower
international emigration rates, and the migration of entire families to
cities are all distinct possibilities and lead to increasing urban growth
pressures. Although the existing informal system of land development has so
far managed to limit the seriousness of urban problems related to the rapid
growth, there are increasing signs that it is being severely strained.
26.       The urban population is fairly evenly distributed.  A widely dis-
persed rural population, a rugged topography and deeply rooted traditions of
regional autonomy have combined to avoid the overwhelming primacy of any one
city. Three cities--Sanaa, the capital, Hodeida, the country's main port,
and Taiz, the principal southern trading city--had 1980 populations of
210,000, 120,000 and 110,000, respectively, and accounted for more than
80 percent of the total 1980 urban population. The most striking demographic
characteristic of YAR, however, is the number of people working abroad who in
1975 accounted for close to one-fifth of the country's total labor force.
Administration
27.       YAR is administratively divided into 11 governorates, each admin-
istered by a governor appointed by the President of the Republic. Fifteen
major urban areas are organized into municipalities which represent the Min-
istry of Municipalities and Housing (MMH) at the local levels of government.
They are headed by "directors general" who are administratively under the
governor.
28.       At the national level, responsibility for managing urban develop-
ment is shared among the Central Planning Organization (CPO), the MMH, the
Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage, and the Ministry of Public
Works. At the local level, these responsibilities are vested in the munici-
palities. The latter, however, depend almost entirely on the Central Govern-
ment for funding and for the provision of most urban services including the
maintenance of infrastructure facilities. This highly centralized admini-
strative structure is, however, seriously constrained by the shortage of
qualified personnel at all levels.
Infrastructure and Housing Conditions
29.       The most striking feature of the urban setting in YAR is the lack
of infrastructure. Although the development of infrastructure is now receiv-
ing increasing attention, only about 30 percent of the urban population has
access to potable water. There are no sewer systems in operation in the
country and the major cities lack adequately designed and surfaced vehicular
and pedestrian facilities. Garbage collection and disposal is limited, and
education and health services are still at a very early stage of development.



-8-
30.       The provision of housing is seriously constrained by three fac-
tors. Foremost among these is the absence of a formal land registration
system. The lack of cadaster and of a modern ownership registry has sub-
stantially increased the uncertainty of tenure in rapidly expanding urban
areas. There is often a proliferation of conflicting deeds for the same or
overlapping properties. This situation has also undermined the establishment
of an effective real estate taxation system and the urban planning effort of
MMH. Land development has, therefore, occurred in a very haphazard way,
complicating the task of providing infrastructure.
31.       The second constraining factor lies in the very high cost of hous-
ing due primarily to the high cost of labor, the low productivity of local
building contractors and the high demand for housing. The cost of a typical
house has increased almost four-fold from about $180/m2 in 1975 to about
$670/m2 by mid-1978. This upward trend has been further exacerbated by the
widespread use of costly building materials, and wasteful and expensive
building construction techniques. Rising housing costs have syphoned off a
significant proportion of the income of the urban population and have made it
increasingly difficult for the lowest income groups to obtain access to hous-
ing.
32.       Finally, access to housing, particularly for low income groups, has
been further restrained by the absence of a well-developed housing finance
system. The Housing Credit Bank (HCB) was established only three years ago,
in August 1978, and so far 900 households, mostly medium- to high-income,
have benefitted from its loans. Low-income groups have had to rely on
informal costlier sources of finance to get access to housing or to rent
accommodations, mostly from absentee landlords working abroad.
33.       YAR's urban problems are likely to be compounded in the future by
the expected continued high rates of urban growth. The institutional frame-
work for dealing with these urban problems is, however, limited, as is the
availability of trained urban specialists, thus posing serious obstacles to
development in the urban sector and to improving the well-being of low income
groups.
Government Shelter Policies and Programs
34.       The Government of YAR has not yet developed a comprehensive urban
policy, partly since the emergence of urban issues is relatively recent. So
far, Government intervention in the urban sector has mostly been on an ad hoc
basis, with the various ministries or agencies implementing their own urban
projects, ranging from the development of master plans to the construction of
housing units for military personnel and of western-type four to five-story
apartment walkups. The institutional capability to acquire and develop land
or implement community improvement projects remains inadequate. The system
of municipal finance and management generates meager local resources which
can provide only limited urban services.
35.       The Government, concerned by the deteriorating urban situation and
the lack of coordination among various urban development activities, decided
in 1979 to establish the Ministry of Municipalities and Housing, and to vest



- 9 -
in it all autbority regarding urban development. This Ministry bas thus
become the focal point of all government decisions in the field of urban
development, and its capacity to implement urban policies and programs is
expected to be strengthened through the proposed project.
IDA Strategy in the Sector
36.       The proposed project would be the seventh IDA-assisted urban-
related project in YAR. IDA's involvement in urban infrastructure began in
1974 with a credit (Cr. 464-YAR) to help the Government finance the first
public water supply system in Sanaa and to establish the National Water and
Sewerage Authority (NWSA). Since then three additional credits have been
made to YAR's major urban centers in the water supply and sewerage sector.
IDA also played a significant role in the establishment of the Yemen General
Electricity Corporation (YGEC), which has already received two IDA credits.
IDA involvement in the urban sector was expanded in 1979 when the Government
requested assistance to carry out a sector review (para. 2) to identify major
urban development issues. The review concluded inter alia that:
(a)  the Government urban development programs should be
directed towards the development of urban land rather than
the delivery of bousing units, an activity best left to
private initiative;
(b)  the Government programs should be targeted to the lowest
income groups;
(c)  the Government should sponsor specific programs to
strengthen the capabilities of local building contractors
and encourage the use of low-cost building materials and
construction techniques; and
(d)  the above activities would require the development of an
institutional capacity to define and implement appropriate
urban development policies, rules and regulations; to
acquire and register land; and to implement integrated
urban development projects.
A review of the construction industry was also initiated in 1980 under the
UNIDO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The findings of this review and of the
Urban Sector Report have been incorporated in the formulation of the proposed
project.
37.       The site of the proposed project is the capital city, Sanaa.  It
was chosen for two main reasons: (a) as one of the fastest growing cities in
YAR, Sanaa is experiencing a range of urban problems, most of which are
typical of other major cities in the country; and (b) as the headquarters for
the central Government and urban-related agencies, the potential close
monitoring of the project may ensure its success and consequently facilitate
urban policy formulation.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was identified by a World Bank sector mission
in 1979.  It was prepared by the YAR Government with assistance of consul-
tants and IDA. It was appraised in June 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington from December 8 to December 11, 1981. The YAR delegation was
headed by His Excellency Mohamad Jaghman, Minister of Municipalities and
Housing (MMH) and included a representative of CPO. A staff appraisal
report, entitled "Yemen Arab Republic: Sanaa Urban Development Project"
(No. 3642-YAR, dated December 30, 1981) is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the credit and the project are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project is the first urban development project to be
undertaken by YAR. It aims to establish a basic model for urban development
schemes that would be replicable in otber urban areas of YAR, and focuses on
providing services to the lowest income groups; to develop the institutional
capacity of the Government to effectively address critical urban problems,
particularly in the fields of land registration, shelter and related ser-
vices; and to promote the use of cost effective building materials and
construction techniques. The project would be implemented over the 1982-87
period and would comprise the following components: (i) infrastructure
upgrading and site and services; (ii) pilot shelter and housing finance
scheme; and (iii) institutional development.
Infrastructure Upgrading and Site and Services.
40.       Upgrading of Urban Infrastructure.  Under the project, a settlement
(Muzaik) inhabited by about 3,400 households and extending to about 70 bec-
tares, would be provided with improved drainage, sanitation, street lighting,
and roads and footpaths. Refuse collection services now in operation in
Sanaa will be extended to this area (Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 4.03).
41.       Site and Services.  One site (Sawad Sawan), covering 25 hectares,
has been selected for development under the project on the basis of its prox-
imity to employment opportunities and off-site infrastructure links, which
make it particularly suitable for residential use. The land is owned by the
Government and was officially transferred from the Land Department to MMH
during project preparation. Plots would be provided with access roads and
footpaths, water supply and sewerage, street lighting and electricity. Areas
have also been reserved for commercial purposes and community facilities.
Improvements to these sites bave been designed with a view towards minimizing
costs by using an efficient layout and tailoring infrastructure to the needs
and capacity to pay of the targeted population.  About 1,980 residential
plots would be developed and three plot sizes provided--72 sq. meters, 80 sq.
meters, and 96 sq. meters. The demonstration houses are the only superstruc-
tures that would be provided on the site. On entering into contract with MMH
to purchase a plot, beneficiaries will be provided with a choice of standard
house plans and will be given a maximum period of two years to start con-
struction after plot allocation.



- 11 -
Pilot Shelter and Housing Finance Scbeme.
42.       Demonstration Houses.  One-hundred and forty-two demonstration
houses would be constructed at Sawad Sawan on two basic modules and auctioned
off as they are completed. Cost per housing unit, including contingencies,
will range from $10,500 for the smallest type to $34,000 for the largest
type. The houses would be built to different stages of development and are
intended to demonstrate the possibility of reducing current construction
costs by using locally produced low-cost materials and cost-efficient con-
struction techniques. The full development of two basic modules is necessary
in order to provide (i) a building component large enough to influence the
productivity of local contractors through appropriate contract packaging and
technical assistance; (ii) an example of internal space organization within
and between the modules; and (iii) a core of construction which would help
stimulate construction on the remaining plots. Typical construction costs of
the proposed demonstration houses are expected to be up to 50 percent below
current market price, while retaining to the fullest extent possible the
basic characteristics of traditional Yemeni architecture. Project benefici-
aries are expected to build similar cost-efficient houses over time and in
stages. A building construction specialist, financed under the credit, would
be made available to MMH to assist in the implementation of the demonstration
houses and to provide advice to contractors and individual home builders on
the use of low-cost building materials and cost-efficient building tech-
niques. This expert is expected to join the project unit in January 1983.
43.       Credit Facilities.  In order to assist Muzaik residents and the
beneficiaries of the Sawad Sawan area in making improvements to or in con-
structing their dwellings, the project provides a line of credit to the Hous-
ing Credit Bank (HCB) amounting to $5 million for construction loans, mainly
to finance the purchase of building materials. The size of this component is
based on the potential demand for home extension improvement or construction
in the two areas, the capability of HCB to process and administer loans, and
the ability of beneficiaries to pay. Construction loans would be optional
and priority would be given to the lowest income households. Individual
borrowers may borrow a maximum amount of about $6,700 and $4,500 equivalent
in Sawad Sawan and Muzaik respectively. These amounts correspond to the cost
of building a house with two to three-rooms of 10 square meters each, using
low-cost building materials and cost-efficient construction techniques. It
is expected that about 1,300 people will benefit from these loans. A housing
finance expert would be made available to HCB to assist its staff in process-
ing such loans and to strengthen HCB's capabilities to provide mortgage
financing to low-income groups (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
The expert would also prepare a report, for the Government's consideration,
to introduce organizational and management reform in HCB. The Government has
agreed to consult with IDA prior to introducing these reforms (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.08). This expert is expected to join HCB in July
1983.
Institutional Development.
44.       To facilitate the implementation of the proposed project and to
strengthen the Government's capacity to implement similar urban development
schemes, the project would finance the services of internationally recruited



- 12 -
experts under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to provide technical
assistance to MMH in (i) training and preparation of future projects; (ii)
project management; and (iii) formulation of land registration policies and
procedures (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). This latter com-
ponent is of great importance since it is expected that under the project a
land registration system will be designed, tested in the project sites, and
if successful, extended to other areas of the country. Land registration
procedures would be developed with the assistance of a land registration
specialist who is expected to join the MMH in July 1982. These procedures
would meet the requirements of a modern land registration system, while at
the same time respecting some features of the current traditional system
(e.g., identification of property through botb coordinates and adjacent
properties). Property rights in Sawad Sawan and Muzaik would be recorded
according to the new system and new title deeds delivered to plot owners once
they have fully paid for the improvement charges. On the basis of experience
gained on these two sites, appropriate legislation will be drafted to expand
the land registration system on a national basis (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 4.05).
Project Implementation
45.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of five and
one-half years. The execution of the project will be the responsibility of
MMH and HCB. The MMH bas already established a project preparation and
implementation unit, within its Housing Department, to implement the proposed
project. This unit, which prepared the project, is headed by an expatriate
project manager, and it will be staffed with internationally recruited tech-
nical experts, including a chief engineer, an implementation engineer, a
financial analyst and a socio-economist. All experts are expected to join
the project unit by March 1982. The appointment of the two engineers would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The project manager will be retained by MMH for
the duration of the project (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05) and
Yemeni counterparts would be assigned to all experts.
46.       The project unit would be responsible for letting all contracts
under the project and for supervising the work. However, to ensure a high
level of quality control, the supervision of all water supply, sewerage, and
electricity works would be carried out with the assistance of the respective
utility companies: National Water and Sewerage Authority (NWSA) and the
Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC). Civil works are expected to
start in January 1983 and to be completed by March 1985. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1987. After project completion, MMH will
transfer responsibility for operation and maintainance of the corresponding
infrastructure provided under the project to NWSA and YGEC. Agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, between MMH and NWSA, and MMH and YGEC, on the admini-
strative arrangements for (a) providing technical supervision during the pro-
ject execution and (b) operating and maintaining the relevant infrastructure
after project completion, have been signed prior to the negotiations of the
Credit.



- 13 -
47.       The proposed project would extend construction loans to the bene-
ficiaries through the HCB. The HCB is one of three Government-chartered,
specialized financial institutions (including the Agricultural Credit Bank
and the Industrial Bank of Yemen). It was established in 1977 for the pur-
pose of mobilizing individual savings and providing mortgage credit. Whilst
it bas since become the main source of housing finance in YAR, its loans have
benefitted mainly public sector employees and relatively higher income
groups. Its ability to expand its lending operations to low income groups is
constrained by a shortage of long-term funds (HCB has relied entirely on
Government budgetary contributions for its operations), inadequate financial
and operating policies, and an absence of expertise in bousing finance. The
credit component provided under this project (para. 43) is intended both to
provide the necessary funds for the financing of construction loans as well
as the impetus for strengthening HCB's institutional capability. In close
consultation with the project unit, HCB would be responsible for reviewing
loan applications for the beneficiaries of this project, determining appli-
cants' eligibility, and monitoring the status of the construction loan
activity under the project.
48.       A Selection Committee with suitable composition and adequate staff
arrangements will be set up under the chairmanship of the Minister of MMH to
identify project beneficiaries of the site and services development in Sawad
Sawan. It would likewise be responsible for preparing eligibility criteria
(e.g., income level of beneficiaries) for construction loans which should be
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $26 million equivalent, of which about 56 percent, or $14.6
million equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These esti-
mates, adjusted to reflect November 1981 prices, are based on prices quoted
in current contracts of goods and works of similar infrastructure projects.
The project is exempt from taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of
10 percent for infrastructure costs and of 15 percent for demonstration
houses were assumed in developing the cost estimates. Price contingencies
for the period 1982-85 have been applied to all items (except the line of
credit) at rates varying between 17 and 22 percent per year for items locallv
procured, and between 7.5 and 8.5 percent per year for items subject to
foreign procurement. The price contingencies for local procurement items
reflect the high rate of inflation projected in light of recent experience,
particularly in construction and wages. The base cost related to the prin-
cipal components are $7.8 million for infrastructure upgrading and sites and
services; $2.1 million for the demonstration houses; $5.5 million for the
housing finance scheme (including the cost of the services of the related
experts); $3.1 million for institutional development; and $1.5 million for
project preparation and administration. Experts' services of about 19
man-years have been costed at about $12,200 per man-month, including travel,
subsistence and overhead. All experts would be hired by the Government.



- 14 -
50.       An advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility of $480,000
was made to cover project preparation costs and start-up expenditures for the
project unit. This advance will be refinanced under the proposed credit.
Retroactive financing for a total of $670,000 would be required under the
project to cover the cost of detailed engineering and the salaries of experts
expected to join the project unit prior to the signing of the credit.
51.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 12.8 million (approximately $15.0
million equivalent), represents about 58 percent of total project costs. The
credit will finance the foreign exchange requirement of all project compo-
nents and the local costs of the technical assistance component. The Govern-
ment would finance the remaining local costs of $11 million equivalent, or
42 percent of the total project costs. The IDA credit would be made to the
YAR Government under standard IDA terms and conditions. The Government would
pass on part of the proceeds of the credit ($12.5 million) to MMH for the
implementation of the upgrading, sites and services and demonstration houses
components, and for related technical assistance. The Government would on-
lend the balance ($2.5 million) at 8 percent per annum interest (plus
1 percent service charge) over 10 years to HCB for the provision of construc-
tion loans under a subsidiary loan agreement, the signing of wbich is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01(a)). The Government will advance $250,000 equivalent to HCB as
soon as needed and not later than June 30, 1984, to initiate the construction
loan program.
Cost Recovery
52.       Strong emphasis has been placed on cost recovery under the proposed
project in order to ensure the long-term replicability of such schemes.
overall, project costs related to site preparation, on-site infrastructure,
on-plot development, project administration, and design and supervision,
would be fully recovered (in nominal terms) through down payments and im-
provement charges to be collected by NWSA on behalf of the MMH. This arrange-
ment appears the most cost-effective way to ensure collection of improvement
charges under the prevailing circumstances, given the serious shortage of
skilled manpower in YAR. NWSA bas the administrative and staff capability
for this purpose and would be collecting water bills from project benefici-
aries anyway. It would collect the improvement charge simultaneously, keep a
percentage of the collection proceeds to meet its collection costs, and remit
the balance to the MMH. The MMH would be responsible for the enforcement of
the payment of the improvement charges. An agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between the MMH and NWSA on the procedures and administrative arrangements
for the collection of improvement charges has been signed prior to the nego-
tiations of the Credit. Plots with commercial potential in the site and ser-
vices area and demonstration houses are to be offered at market price, while
other plots and reserved areas for community facilities would be transferred
to the relevant ministries at cost.
53.       About 79 percent of total project costs (in nominal terms) would be
directly recovered from project beneficiaries. The remainder is accounted
for by off-site infrastructure and by technical assistance. The cost of
off-site infrastructure would be partially recovered tbrough electricity and



- 15 -
water tariffs (2 percent of total project costs). The balance of the cost
would be borne by the Government (19 percent of total project costs) and
includes mainly expenditures for tecbnical assistance, office supplies and
equipment, and site preparation and infrastructure for plots reserved for
primary schools in the site and services area.
54.       The costs for the residential plots would be repaid by benefici-
aries to the MMH at an interest rate of 11 percent per annum over a period of
20 years. A downpayment of 20 percent would be required for the purchase of
residential plots in the site and services area. Construction loans would be
repaid to HCB at an interest rate of 12 percent per annum (inclusive of a
1 percent service charge) over a period of 10 years. This allows a satisfac-
tory spread to HCB. Furthermore, the terms and conditions for onlending to
beneficiaries for construction loans are consistent witb those discussed
between the YAR and IDA for specialized institutions in connection with the
recently approved credit to assist the Industrial Bank of Yemen (Cr. 1122-
YAR). It was agreed with the Government that terms and conditions for the
recovery of costs from beneficiaries will be as described above, and that the
onlending rates would be periodically reviewed by the borrower in consulta-
tion with IDA in the light of the financial viability of HCB and the prevail-
ing market conditions (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
55.       An affordability analysis based on detailed surveys of household
incomes and housing expenditures in the project area was conducted by consul-
tants to MMH in the course of project preparation. The analysis showed that
households are willing to spend about 30 percent of their income for hous-
ing. Accordingly the cost of improvements in the upgrading area of Muzaik
would be affordable to at least 90 percent of the residents, with monthly
payments of about 9 percent of household incomes. As regards the Sawad Sawan
site and services area, including construction loans, the study shows that
they would be affordable to about 80 percent of the Sanaa population. The
20 percent down payment will not exceed 2.5 months' income equivalent, and
corresponds to the amount that households have declared they would be willing
to contribute. Nonetheless, emphasis will be placed on the importance of
sensitizing the target population to the rationale and procedures for cost
recovery. In this connection, a public relations expert will be provided
under the project to assist the project unit in organizing suitable
information campaigns.
56.       To prevent speculative sales, plot beneficiaries would be given a
lease-purcbase contract in exchange for their monthly payment. Resale of
plots would not be permitted until 1990 (except through MMH). Upon full
payment of the improvement costs, beneficiaries would be given by MMH a fully
secure land title, the characteristics of which are to be defined under the
land registration component (para. 44).
57.       The cost recovery arrangements described above will provide the
Government with a steady inflow of funds. These funds will accrue to a
revolving fund to be established with the Central Bank of Yemen and would be
administered by the MMH. They would be utilized exclusively for financing
similar operations in YAR's urban sector (Development Credit, Section 4.07).



- 16 -
Procurement
58.       Civil works for the upgrading and site and services components
(about 11.6 million) consisting of roads, footpaths, water supply, sewers,
stormwater drainage, electricity and street lighting, and preparation and
servicing of plots at Sawad Sawan, would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Civil works
contracts for demonstration houses (about $3 million), for relatively simple
structures which are not expected to attract foreign bidders, would be pro-
cured on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA and do not exclude foreign bidders.
Procurement of contracts for goods costing less than $200,000 each, whose
aggregate value will not exceed $500,000 (i.e., equivalent to all equipment
to be procured under the project), would be permitted in accordance with
international limited tendering by inviting quotations from at least three
international suppliers. A 15 percent margin of preference, or the prevail-
ing custom duties, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufac-
turers in evaluating bids under ICB.
Disbursement
59.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against (i)
50 percent of expenditures for civil works procured through international
competitive bidding; (ii) 40 percent of expenditures for civil works on
demonstration houses; (iii) 50 percent of HCB subloans extended under the
line of credit on the basis of statements of expenditures submitted by HCB;
(iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, 100 percent
of local expenditures ex-factory, and 70 percent of other local expenditures
for equipment and materials; and (v) 100 percent of expenditures for consul-
tants' services including PPF advance.
Accounts and Audits
60.       Separate project accounts and appropriate accounting procedures
would be established within (i) MMH not later than December 31, 1982; and
(ii) HCB not later than December 31, 1983, to record all project-related
financial transactions for which MMH and HCB are directly responsible.
Independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, would audit these accounts and would
submit their reports to IDA through the project unit not later than eight
months after the close of each fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.07 and 4.02). The HCB auditor's opinion would also cover
reimbursement claims by HCB against statements of expenditures.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to redirect
public investment in shelter toward low cost, replicable programs of land
development which would benefit low-income groups, to spearhead efforts in
reducing construction costs, and to expand the capacity of MMH to execute and
expand such programs on a cost recovery basis. The average rate of return on
those investments of which the benefits are quantifiable (representing



- 17 -
77 percent of total project cost), is estimated at 25 percent. The upgrading
component would provide secured tenure, improved shelter and infrastructure
services for about 22,000 people. The site and services component would
provide secured tenure, shelter and infrastructure services for about about
11,000 people with incomes within the bottom balf of the Sanaa income distri-
bution curve. In addition, the pilot shelter and housing scheme will demon-
strate the feasibility of reducing current construction costs by as mucb as
50 percent. This, combined with the credit component provided under the pro-
ject, should substantially increase access to housing for low-income groups.
62.       The major risks associated with the proposed project are (i) the
shortage of qualified Yemeni administrative and technical staff; (ii) the
possibility of higher income groups obtaining urban services targeted to
lower income population; and (iii) higher construction costs than forecast.
Because of the institutional weaknesses in the sector, including a serious
shortage of qualified administrative and technical staff, the project could
experience delays in execution and important coordination problems. These
risks have been minimized by (a) basing the implementation arrangements on
existing institutions which will be strengthened by advisors and consultants
as necessary, and (b) providing for staff training.
63.       The current demand pressures resulting from the shortage of afford-
able serviced land in Sanaa could lead to a sbift in target beneficiaries in
the site and services area and to higher income groups obtaining urban ser-
vices targeted to the lower income population. While this risk cannot be
totally eliminated, it has been reduced by (a) requiring the establishment of
detailed eligibility criteria and procedures for beneficiary selection
(paragraph 48), and (b) allowing for about 15 percent of the plots to be
allocated to medium-income group, thus releasing partly pressures in demand.
64.       High construction costs in YAR, combined with the difficult nature
of upgrading works could lead to cost overruns under the project. This risk
has been decreased by the particular attention paid to the estimation of the
unit cost of all elements under the project and by the provision of realistic
price contingencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. Signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and HCB for funds to be made available
for construction subloans and employment of a chief engineer and an implemen-
tation engineer to the project unit bave been made additional conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).



- 18 -
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 4, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-19 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
YEHN. AJUB 3BLIC OF - 1¶AL InICATORS DATA SuNE!
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF              RCFERZNCZ GOUPS (WEIGHTED AVEES
LAMU AREA (THOUSAN) SQ. KM.)                                                            - H      CENS ESTIMTE)
IbAt             195.0                                                      MEDDLE lico        `      N
AGRICULTURAL      85.7                                MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6          MIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIHATE /b          NIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    ..          ..      420.0 *              865.5                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       7.4        17.8      73.1                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, M4D-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4039.0       4835.0    5693.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.4          6.0       9.8                  45.2                    64.2
POPULAT1ON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.1
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        22.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                       20.7        24.8      29.2                  36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     48.0        56.8      65.1                 442.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4        43.0      45.6                  44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         54.4        53.9      51.2                 52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         3.1       3.2                   3.4                     4.0
PUPULATION GRO4TH BATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.8       1.8                   2.7                     2.4
URBAN                              7.8         7.5       7.2                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.6        48.7      47.1                  41.5                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.7         26.4      23.1                  12.8                     8.4
GRSS R4EPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5       3.2                   2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTU4R, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FPO0 AND NUTRITION
'NDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         119.0        84.0      95.0                 96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.0        78.0      91.0                 110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAmS PEI DAY)          69.0        57.0      68.0                  73.4                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        15.0      19.0                  17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     53.9        47.9      40.6                  14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        38.6      42.1                  55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..          ..        ,.                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..         4.0       4.0                  59.4                    65.7
URBAN                               *-        45.0      30.0                 83.9                     79.7
RURAL                               .,         2.0       2.0                 40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATIUN)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                    .,                    59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..     22126.1   12459.8               4174.5                   1728.2
PUPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..          ..   5656.2                 1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2901.0      1552.0   1994.3                 647.4                    471.2
URBAN                               ..          ..     255.6                547.2                    558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..  30136.1                 3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HUSPITAL BED           ..          ..      16.2                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                               ..          ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.2.                          
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMHBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                               ..          ..       2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..       1.8.
RURAL                               ..          ..       3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS )
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..      56.5..
KURAL                               * --



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA  S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA S            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         12.0      29.0                   85.1                    101.7
MALE                  14.0         23.0      50.0                  10U.5                     103.0
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0       7.0                   67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1          1.0       4.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                    ..          2.0        8.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       5.0/d                 11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         51.0      38.0/d                 34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0      i8.o7l                 23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0         10.0/e    13.0                   43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POFULATION                            ..          ..         ..                   18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         14.0      18.3                  121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                   37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     *-         11.6        ..                   35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.0                   3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1225.7       1361.8    1439.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7          4.5       5.2                   10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0      76.3                   43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0         9.0       10.9                  27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2      25.3                   26.4                     31.8
MALE                                  57.7         55.0      50.2                   47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5       2.5                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6        1.9                   1.8                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 271.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..     100.                  144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      83.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatioo-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends oo availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   In the major cities of Sanaa, Tai and Hodaidah; /d 1975; /e 1973.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $460 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5812
thousand.
May, 1981



-21-                                                     ~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEPISNITIONS OF SOCIAL. IND1CATORS
Mote.:  Although the data see dract  fron .ou. e  generally judged the   et authoritative end reliable, ito ehoold alec be   td that they  ey not ho inte-
nationally noepseahib he.eo.. of the lath of etsoniadioed deinitions  od nnor  send by difteree   --ntioe In nollutiog tho data.  The detna a.. none-
thelsee,.. ucfol to desorihe orders of segnitodo, leinato  trends, aud Ch-uteo fter        .tomat  najon dlffer.osesb- h        -ee .nrtrie..
The eofceno  gr.upe er. .i) the eostountrgrop of the eubjent n-try sad (2) Aoro...rt  group vith soehat Ighraoee  noeoa  the no...tty group
of sh  nahint nontry  esoot fr aIto  Surlu   I  RoPoreore" group chor  'Kitddle In-n  North Aftrire ud RIddle fE-`"i te  h-eo hena,,e  of et-ooge
.cooriae   filis. It the ref eno... geou.p date tho s-ergee ore populatIon weIghted aritheetin  en  f. or.eeh Jodin-no  ed sh-e  only oh-
majority of tha  onne  is a go...p h.e date for that todi-ior.  Sist. the ororgs of ooetrlo- og  he indIcato,,depend. on the avilability of date
and ie  or aifone, neio        -ne  ho eu-rre   is  olatitog        S..age  of.on  indintor. toevother.lIeergeneoy usfuAnlnpntog the  -e1ue of
one idirotor et o ti.a  -.0  rho ..uotry end eefoenoe Sloupe.
LAND( AREA (theue..od sqlk..)                                                                    P2uainpnOoyrhBd-toto, urban, sorrl -. Populaion  (rtsi.,
ttl- Total enrfatoseaopteioglad see  ad inlan   aoe                                           uho   n  rrl ld              b   ho    epnietae fhopia  bed
Aoninntoto-I - E tiasto of ogninltorl   ae   edtaveiyo   enotI_:ona-lablo  in pohlil aod private   aeo   n   ynaedhsia   n   e
fryrofs  peeta-, nokhet aod kitnheo g_rdeo or no ho. fls;1970 data.                            hbhilittatonetere   lopitol  are A           btaltob-t  permstoy etafn
by at lnoet nor phyalian..  Estebltehaunte proiding pot"tipally n-ts-
IMP Pt  CAPIA Iri) -GIP per n-yita aetinree at --rn  market poinne, nai-                     dia1l non  ano lor i-ulodod.  ural1 hospitals, toaste, innide health
nuienad by .e   ....s-too method es W-nld Oath Atlee 71977-79 haste): 1960,                      so  ndlne1  _t_oen  lot P.nanoty-tffed hy a phyi.tI- (hot hy
1970,.en  1979 dato..                                                                                     ..d.alosiat-t, nuse   idwife,yeto.) ohith offeri-oineers
ddtnino end provide a limited range of endical fanilitine. Pot tatie-
tpRiY CONSUMtPTION Pit CAPITA- A-uol ...n..npti- of nomarialonergy (noel                           noel ytpoaee urhan- hoepitale iso1ade WOldeptIplgnelhsias
adlignite. patoleo,  utno  ge   n   yda,nna   n   etherma  o1-                                 and _lorlhatag  oa   rrrl hoepital  no!'id eadinal-ae  eoPtsnty
erioty) in  norus0 of        l eqIaln  ra   eia 90, 1970. sod 11979                              etr.nSn-OIitedtepas are  otdod only  nderrorsl.
data.                                                                                          Odisin  p Hopta  Ned -Total nubho  of ad.Lenio.e to o  disabngee
froe hpitols divided  y the nohnof beds.
POPULATIONo AND VITAL. STATISICSC
Total Population. Mid-Tao(oaeod             A.-b  of July 1; 1967, 1970, -vd i979            HO01191
dor.                                                                                         neooSeof IOoehld (aEnoane te   eehil     os.oha,edrn
Orhen Ponnlatiao (rernoot of ntal.) -Otia of orhat to nona  poyolattao:                          A ha...eboldnoetevegnp of              individooa  tt  ehr   lnngqutr
different definitLoen  of unIon a.;Renny offont orparahility of duto                           nod their naoi eae   A hrerdet or odoer may or nay not ha tinladed ie
a_og   onle   90  17..sd 1979 dano.                                                            rho.onhl  for I  "t eIta "'parpoe
Poua ionn  year 2000 - Curen  papoIlarno  peujetelons are heed an 1980                   heb o  pnen  pen tasin allurban, so  nno  ontpid nneto
totalpolni b y og  ed ... ned rhale mronli ty and ftortlity ltene.                           do  line   rv     rlvtip.Iceligo   n.uson-p.......n.Iean
Projtorio   peantor  for eartailty rates  . noprie  of these lenoesann-.oontpia  pai.
leg life ..pont-ny or birth i-n.oeulog with tanotnyt  e  npt   oann                        Anone.. t   ietlirin  (pne of doeliee  -  totl, orh,e. -d tona  -
levo, so  tamle lre ePototy .. iehtiliaiag en771pears.  Th  petCnetionl  doellogs i t%'h  elontrity t  ItieLg  qurer   e  energ
netore far fertility nat  also. hone three lni. onoio  denlioe in                            at total, o-bo, sod totl1 dwelling'. toepenitnly.
fertility .....diog to itonn   level sod poet fenily PI.e onig ptonn
tonh tu..ntoy is then Aeeigned aov of theae ninel aboutosof earraity                     tDUCATION
o-d fertility treodsI forPl1l1 proeria   pup.n...    th    i      g-h                      Adjusted Eln..lln..t RAtioc
tho bIrth raeis   oe  t  the dtoh ltare  and also the  g setoaasnroenofalogsn the privacy leve  Lom p ..ne ISg   of eepentins
nsie  ontut.    l  t i  shievod only efton fertility rates denline to                     nor.oolg    ouuto;nnal  sldstide   gdhi
the relne     -t ee  a0 unit net -oprodooriu-tote   non math fer-iot                           years but adjoeted for different leagthe of pnisoop ednation;for
of coen velooneirsoi  soatly.  The e    ...neny population em    atuonion with univon..oI edsnatiae soo                             -et y senend 100 po..tan
t'riaod  n  h  boats  Ifteonetdtoorosi thth   oploneee  aeportle e   belo o  above the off.int1 ethool as.
It the year 2000, aod tho rate of denlioe offetlyroso repplete-1                             Sonoodany snboo.l-ttal   aeedf l- Creputed as gbo-;eenoo.do
soot level.                                                            e~~~~~~~dotoiaorleqoires  len   on  ee f aPprovd prinary toeteu_tian;
Taeteoanpvtaioireted-Teyuchtatiinar                                 apleioprovides ge...ral, notloal,7 or   ohe- toeleing letruottos. foe popilv
sian hoe host -tchnd.                                                                          usually of 12 to 17 yoare of age; tctrespondeottoueear  genera lly
P.caIati.. DI...ity                                                                                _onoded.
Per a. he. -HSid-yos  population pen aq.a.. kiloster (lIt hentares) of                         toaiolar eti  pretof ea-odar   -  ..natiosal instironion
ttlan;160, 1970 and 1979 d-n.                                                          ittlad   tenhanl, inotril   r  te   rorv hinh oporen. indeped-
Per en  ..In.-a-rtriuai lend - Conp-nd so shone far nrita1tonl1 land                             etly or asdepotatte  fi-snoderyt istutte
only;.1,960, 197) aod197 lpldora.                                                            Po) irnhar ratio  - pri-ay  and esnoodenoy   Total etdsete   -11n d in
.Poplaion bee  _s tn  (content)_-Cttldnso (0-14poe)  cnlgas(15-                                    piry eod  enondeay I...ele divided by nonhena of teet.her. in the
64 yesre),. ad  -ninnd (65 peaes and ove) as pero..ssogee of nid-yaso  opop-                     -oropuedieg lenele.
leIan; 160, 197), a.d 1979 data.                                                               Odolt li teesoy nets_ .torret) - Ilterate edulte (ahie to tend sod -it.)
Populaion treth ki   (portent) - total - Aveaul gowth ltats  or  otetl nid-                   Aeponreetege of rote1 edolt popnitttoo  ged 15 yeara andoee
psarpapletaseIon1910_61. 1960-70, nod 1070-79.
Pouain  ot.as,   enc                 ubn   Aanual growth rate. of uhet -pop-                 CrtONSUMPTION
lation. for 1950-hi   96-0,     an   9079.ense  Care  nOr thousan.d papulation) - Peesan-eo                                                              t neerpriee sotor
Crode Birth   no(nt :rhuead) - doul_  live hinthe per rhoosa..d of aid-yearI'l rae                        Isaing lees than aight persona; eoldaabolsain, hearse. osd
pvpolatio; 1960.1970. ed 1979 dera.                                                     sitta     -nhirlo.
Cod   cibRt  per thou...od 9- Avusa  doths pe  tho...aode of mdya                      ai Wi ntiRr...   pe  thou....nd . oalartue  -d ofl iYpyo f rosi-ere for radio
ppltion   19h0  1970  toO- 1979 iota.                                                       hroedoeete no geerl publia Per eh...uo  ofPoponin  erldesam
Gnoes RneroduntiasRl ae-AvnSge oabee of dngie...anwil  etoi                                      lirsedeeier  i  tontita sod in year  nhcrgitero   o   Adi
henanlnpduIlne  ootd if abs neperi-no  P                   _an  Ago-ponif in for-              ses Ia in effen; date ire renosi year  ny ant be  ospeable elne
tilityraien;u Ioly fiv-year avraeseding In 1960, 1970, sod 1979.                               eat  untis  hllhed linone.ing.
Faily Pleniao-A:n.aone  An..oos  l (ninuods) - Aoo.oIob) nhoft.at  nnpoore                     TVOReinnre (per t7h.ossd ponutlauan  - TV renevet  fothrodo... tlo
of birth-nootrl1 innne  under oueio    of nsioo   fanily pluPoi'g pr...n.g.ura  publi  pe   huod   .popotiot;  atodo  onin...e  TV  ..n.lner
Pesil' PltointSeer   (noPeneof mariad wnt  -Preneoatoritd                                   inno..strine and is years rhoretrrt    of TV sore  -o  is  r efs.t
wonco' o. oild-bOsrn   ag     4104 poor e) who use binth-`onottrol d-ninos to                 laeae   iooain(e  tboen   ouaio     ioeteoeaent
oi mriod wae  in sane ago group.                                                             nuatETon  fl"daily geenrl intenont tamtpioper": dhf 'i,todh:aeoperiodiaa1
Pohl iotiot devted primarIly to re.trdiog gooara  tam.  It Is nooe.idorod
FOOD ANDO NUTRITION                                                                                to be "daily" if it appear. at lose  fon  ti.ossene..k
loden of rood Prodo nnr Captet (1969-71-100) - isdsoo  ye .tpi                   ..etu         C~i_o  A.Au1 Atteedaine eon Capita oar Soon - hee.d onthe nhet of
produottonofall fodvooitte. .Pvodant ious..ldneeod.2cod fedndotkoel   uigropu.isldn    dieoot   oei   tee
is on  alondu- year haeis.  Cos_sdities tone  primary goads (e.g. eenaaad mabiluo.ire..
ineesad af ongac) chi.h are dihls atd nosnolsi sutntite (e.g. noffes and
tea so aude),. Agg..egote produntio  of eath nvontrpi to  oed 00o1.00CR PORCi
nationl  neag   pedunn  pnito woighte; 1961-60, 1970,ed1979 dora.                            Totol Labor Por.o (thno....de  - Eoononirolly soti-n p.re.. *. lorladiag
perl oapits  -urly ofreats(tnt of routne..              r) - Caputd fl. ronsted fnnee sod uneployed hutoidgbaswos  atodeste,e,
otErg  aql    -lo  of toofod supplinalhlisaony 'pr  ait.                                   -onnlsf papnlania  of all  ero   Dntfniti.ne in  -art.o. notrtos on
prda.   A      Mtel  splo  ropien d=amebtir ip-rorritn  teparne1 I...                     lott -op-blo; 1960, 1970 o-d 1979 dea
ooporta. ai thangee io stank.  Not nopplioeex-lode onfoo  food, erode,                     Psae  nnon)      asl  labonfros  preeg f ta tol 1hoo fame.
qoonittisused i  fod Proonel..    an1  d  assin dintibuno.Rqio                       Agrinotar  (p toner) - Lsor for. in fnoiog, f-orotey, hooting sod
metswre  _tird' by FAO based on physialogino,  -t,.d  for "oIa anti-                 fishingus patro ge of total lebor fort; 1960, 1970 and 1959 dora.
viny ae  hath-totaidnleenlo             tetl1emertue,bdy wtteagInory(eoo)-Labor form  in ninieg   t..nootruntlon. nsfantor
sdend iotnihooo  population, aod e11niog 10 petn   a   oe  e                                 n   l nnt, ente  and goe on pern...stgn of ltotllbo   ote190
househo,ld.p. lord, 19,61-65. 1970, ood 1977 dan-                                             1970 so  1979 data.
P  'osit.eur  of prtei  (NEr   erdy) - Prtelin  _nto   fpr  aio                           Pririrotto  n tt  frorteu- toal   al,  n  fsa - Partinipetion o
it  spply of food por day.tn  supyo  food ie dnfioed ae  toe.Ot                            onnivtyro.tesstonlaspaid es rol,  oo,ndfoaeleo   arsa
qoitnaote foral  oounree teraliehed by USDA ponida fla niti-u                                panen.tefee of uta1, male aod fea1l  popolatiot of all ogoete-p-ti-vly;
all._o-  of tO erea  of totelI -ootl pan day aed 20 Sn_n  of e-i-  and                       19610,1975, aod 1979 daso    h.. bsat  baedo   It's p-tltipattlonnat
plepoeoof.chinh 10 gtane ohoold he anima-      rrno   Tbheso sead-                  rfleotig oge-son Aoun           of ropapultin  AM ln  tinstred 
endears lae  thenthoes of 75 g-tn  of tota  proei  un-d 27 ou-o  of                          few estimates are frn nnni ...uIo..    -.
aoioal prateit  as aanergs for the norld, 'tpoaon  by PAO to the Third                     Euoonnir Dnrendenon lt-in  - Ratio of pupulatiae noder 15 ned 65 en  ae
,orId road   oney.; ,196Y1-01, 1970 and 1977 darn.                                           to  the tato1 1abnn forta.
Pe  npita nootin          S_el  fa   -nou  ad rulse - Prarin   ,i nuply   ftoad de-
rIedfrm ni alsnd puleon ta g-n  yen day: 1961-hI  1970 or  1977 data.            tCOon  ISTtItUTION
Child (gs b   fttolity Rate (           t hon-ed) - A--la deathe per tho....od it                _Drnaru   rrr    try)nbi  ahodknd       oendh   th
o8.ge  ro   -,yas,n   hlrti Soh   000' groap; far  1atonlaing tttloon  lirheer 20 perreor, p.oo...r 20 pernot. ard poo.n.    1 0 porten
trtes don  derived fron lire  -ehire; 19h0, 175 sad 1979 data                                  of hb.u.eholdo.
HEALTH                                                                                         P1VE150 TACGET GRLOUPS
Life E.orett-Y at Blth Ornate) - A-etugetuoba  of years of life tenining                      Thu follacn g     toroanreyapo lmeens nfprrtlnoe
anbirth; 1965, 1970 and 1979 data,                                                           and1hiu   be  rorprr            y  ppib rono terbl  rarofn.    -y1-
Isfen  MortlityRate  rontheu...nd) - Annua  deathe of inftone under our year            -nr--rdubnouePvmroaoItl_  (,Si oS                     ort)-,rs   n   ,a
of 000700 roneen  lIve hir..                                                           tbnal1-  puvrnIro   nnlt   b,irm   loveS helm  whith a  ininal
Anuses o left arer (rmote oforaolaio,- ttl, urba, and rua  -N'.                          orila l  odquan  dirt plu  -toorrut            o-adtqonnotI  o
her of peoplo (total, uran`ad  url)Sthoeothhc  tre  n                                                                                    i-eofnreh-
eaten enhe that fran prontrold hoeholno, epriogo, and soot itory cele) noOri-role ti- rontrptore  lne   oot-hr                                         -o)nru  per to_pt1
P.M.t.g..    thtil l--liv.   1. ..  lb..  l. . p.blit                  pereonalt inrae  f rho r--ny.  OnIon lno  Is derived fine the totl1
..oal  an e:tedpoet lonte d eternte  20  ises          _ro       s  map be-eve  with odjuonont far hisbo- root of hymn in unbarar
re....oble  c.tt.n...old iply thtr the h..sn-if. or nebee of the   . bochalo                   ad rurldP -. Perea  of- pbpolanto  (ottheyn   ual h r  "absolute
do  oot hav   pa'.d Anddieproootioosto  part o  l th  day in foithint the                      .o0.dl 1    .       tofp,.i.(tb                  .d .)h. .
f..ily'. enteede.
AnnesonntotEra.l SieroeI (pR-neo  of ....ulatioo - -to.1 _rhaa, an.drurl-
Nfblue  of people (total, urha, aod rura) seined by  ootedispoa .. se.
pern..otages of their  epetv   Eooeis . onrto disposal ma-y ittludo
the ollninad  ipol   ith  noi o  tretat,o   baeeorr                                                                                 Euaonn-oeod Sncial Ions Dl~iioio
rod enst-wetar bpetrhosyyteao hhueo   i piisad aiic-nrair Aoslyeis and P-oj-tion. Dpltporen
.poaltiO rpr Physinan   Papolatioo dIvided by  .ombor of prautiniog physi-                                                                           Rp06
ti.es qualified fra  nsdtoal enheo  en nivositry Itn-l.
P-otai- .. r .r.torion  _srenn-FPopltioo dtntdad hr nua- of prooriolog
male And fema  le  rdonnnonno,pra-tlool o-.... and e..alotatnus.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1973-79      FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                  3810                    11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                  2800                     8            9
Gross Domestic Investments             900                    19           10
Gross National Savings                 524                    13          -40
Exports of GNFS                         56                    -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                    21           24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         %       us$      7
Agriculture             1000      38        1450        76          690       50
Industry                 350      14         150         8         2330      170
Services               1250       48         300        16         4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2600      100        1900       100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1978/79
Current Receipts                1293      1985      2161      2692         13
Current Expenditure              841      1250      1847      2430         11
Current Deficit/Surplus          452       735       314       262          2
Capital Expenditure              603      1167      2618      2426         15
External Assistance, Net         606       691      1904       976         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRIs Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    3516      5081      6273      7382
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -939        -990      -609      1199
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1474      1555      2199     2830
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          30        33        37       n.a.
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  73        45        23        18
Consumer Price Index          26        17        22        11
l/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts
series has recently been revised by the Government, and will be
reported on in a forthcoming CEM.
2/ Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (us$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob             14       12        19         7         3
Imports of Goods, cif          -194      -382      -730     -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                  -180      -370      -711     -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net          14       21       -10      -21         19
Factor Income, net               117      479       896     1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)         (898)
Investment Income, net         (5)      (22)      (54)     (70)      (109)
Balance on Current Account      -49       130       175      240       -376
M & LT Capital, net               62      153       146      165        435
Official Grants                33       114       104      103        312
Official Loans, net 1/         29        39        42       62        123
Disbursements               (32)      (42)      (46)     (68)      (133)
Repayments                  (-3)      (-3)      (-4)     (-6)      (-10)
Otber Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10        -11       133      -32        144
Increase in Reserves (-)        -23      -272     -454      -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 2/       150      520       974     1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1979                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding           1,603          Cotton and Cotton Products       31
of wbich disbursed            727          Coffee                           13
Hides and Skins                  14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1980 3/                 Biscuits and Confectionary        9
All Other Commodities            33
%                                             100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                   I
1/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/  Includes workers' remittances and transfers.
EMIDB
January 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1981 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits I/
Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                        55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                   2.3        0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                  10.0        0.8
559   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage           8.1        0.04
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                        8.0        1.0
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2            1.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0            1.0
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          10.0        3.4
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                    6.0        1.5
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                       11.5        6.2
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II              10.5        6.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                 10.0        5.3
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III             15.0       14.9
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                      10.0        8.2
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          12.0       12.0
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV               5.5        5.5
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development              17.0       16.6
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                  17.0       17.0
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                    12.0       12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                    12.0       12.0
Total                                                242.3 1/  126.04
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                242.3
Total undisbursed                                               126.04
1/ Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979, and the fourth education credit which is
being simultaneously processed.
2/ Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                 -                -
Total commitments now beld by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to belp finance,
jointly witb the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidab are underway and the Government is seeking further
assistance in this area from the World Bank.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy tbem. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation has been
encouraging.  Project implementation has been delayed by managerial, staff-
ing, and financial problems, some of which still remain. Nevertheless,
these problems are somewhat mitigated by the momentum and scope of the
agricultural extension and credit programs, and the progress in well drill-
ing, and completing the village water supply components. Problems of cost
escalation have been met by an increase in the contributions of the Govern-
ment and beneficiaries, a reduction in the number of loans that can be made
to farmers, and to the extent of the feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water supply and sewerage works is underway,
and the sewage treatment plant is complete. Transfer of the existing water
system assets from the Port Authority has been effected. The Government is
currently shortlisting consultants for the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete. All twelve institutions are operational. Technical assistance and
staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from Arab
countries and some progress is now being made in the utilization of the
Basic Training Scheme.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for
Development and the Government. The training program is underway.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm bas been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouse and animal
health components, in particular, are achieving their aims, and the live-
stock fattening, dairy production, and village development components will
provide valuable research information and development experience for the
livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems encoun-
tered last year are on the way to being resolved, and project implementa-
tion is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded. The draft report of the
tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by the
consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works have now been awarded and construction
is expected to be substantially completed in October 1981, about nine
months behind appraisal schedule. The chief engineer and the electrical
engineer have been appointed. Other technical staff provided for under the
credit are still to be appointed. The Government is continuing its efforts
to recruit qualified staff in order to strengthen the technical services
department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance
to the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance
practices. Other objectives of the project include the implementation of
vehicle loading controls, planning future highway development and the in-
ception of an overlay program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project
implementation is underway and substantial progress is being made on all
project components.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads, village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority Head-
quarters at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test struc-
tures, and funds for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the central
Agricultural Research Service. Project implementation has been slow but
now shows signs of improvement. The agricultural extension service is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway, and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification in-
terim study has been completed. Problems facing YGEC are managerial and
financial. YGEC has secured sufficient funds, from external sources, to
meet the foreign exchange requirements of its current development program.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal health services,
and agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
managerial, engineering and aricultural fields. After a delay in declaring
the credit effective, implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livestock secondary school and two regional banches of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 7
and related training, and of post secondary educational development. Insti-
tutional support to the Ministry of Education and the scbool building unit as
well as related technical assistance have also been included under the pro-
ject. Construction of the agricultural secondary school is completed.
Construction of the livestock secondary school and the two NIPA branches is
underway. Fellowship programs have been drawn up and progressing
satisfactorily. The pre-investment studies relating to post secondary
education have been completed.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project assists in the construction of water supply and waste-
water systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It would also provide tech-
nical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing arrangements have
been finalized. Final designs have been prepared by the consultants, and
hydrogeological studies for Ibb are completed.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourtb Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation is underway. Contract documents for the construction
of the diversion weirs and canals have finalized. The forestry expert and
the sand stabilization expert bave been appointed, and about 800 ha of dunes
have been selected for afforestation.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
After a delay in declaring the credit effective, progress on project
impelmentation is underway. Soil investigations at Hodeidab and Khawbab have
been completed. Contract documents have been prepared for construction of
fisberies facilities at Khawbab, Hodeidah, Mokha, and Kokha.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is an expansion of the successful experience of the
first rural development project in YAR (Credit No. 545-YAR). It aims at
improving farm incomes and the quality of rural like in the rural bighlands
of Ibb and Taiz Governorates, and at establishing the regional services of



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 7
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Credit Bank in the project
area. Co-financing arrangements have been finalized. Project implementa-
tion is underway.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrificaton Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SANA'A URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare           Fourteen months
project:                                 (April 1980-June 1981)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the            Ministry of Municipalities
project:                                and Housing (MMH) with
assistance of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:         March 1979
(d)  Date of Departure of appraisal mission: June 9, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        December 11, 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             May 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds amounting to $350,000 and
$130,000 were approved on November 14, 1979 and June 9, 1981 respectively,
to expedite preparation work. Retroactive financing for a total of
$670,000 are provided under the project to cover the cost of detailed
engineering and the salaries of experts expected to join the project unit
prior to the signing of the Credit (para. 50).
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA
between the Government and the Housing Credit Bank (HCB) for
funds to be made available for construction subloans under the
credit facility component of the project (para. 51); and
(b) Appointment of a chief engineer and an implementation engineer
to the project unit (para. 45).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
B. Measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a) Signing of contracts for the services of specialists to
provide technical assistance to MMH and HCB (paras. 42-44,
and 55); and
(b) Establishment of a Selection Committee to identify project
beneficiaries of the site and services development (para. 48).



I6RLO 16031
ARAB-
YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC                                                                 EGYPT v\                 \UAT '
--   O " AUD I ARAI
SANA'A  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              -20'
LOCATION  OF PROJECT SITES                                                                  SUDTAt , V
I/    SerrOU>TI5
LAreas to be developed under project                            \        7b AZparE jA                                             5
Reserved proiecl area for sites                                                                                       (3
and services
Built-up Area
- Mojor Paved Roads                                                                            NO
Proposed Paved Roads (No, project)                            /                                                         SA  -A   V.
SAWAN
- - -  Unpaved Tracks                                                                                                        SITES A`N-,D
SER V §ES,;
MtETERS                                                                                                                               4
0          500        1000
0      I000   2      '00   2000   400^2
FEcET                                                                                                                /
Ring  Road                                              ,
>                                    \                            .---.   ~~~~~~   ~     ~     ~~~~~~~GERM^AN\
U P(GRADING
\ \ ~~~~~~~~Low    Income 
_vOvv,evt v tDevelopment 
ro 0\                                              Medium                                         \          ~
\            \ De~~ve opment                                                                         J
Tlde;,  .,dl - 1o.1 11"                                   Ring  Road \
l,ord  I't3dr    s                                      r
OCTOBER 1981






-RVAl      /                                                                  '4                                                                                        46-
-50 \ ,J0RtN \         OE    A c   -N
>  NELTROL'                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
-OO)> r e,,,.RV,,  -IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
- SJDI ARAB A   e,                          A    UI                A R A 3  A                                                                         PROJECTS
*0~Z56~                                                                                                                                          RJ - DUE,EOUE ,OEE -tFam
AoSs So                                                                                                                    t       Go SEt .  gra
o  P2510TH  .                                                                                                  5:     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fish MarkeEs
f6'  a  \  ,  4 , ; \ ' -_- PWadis 1bs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  J
A       Edocati-r
H ighways
-   H,ghway Mai,,sasassce
: -r                                W       aJ S S 0  EsEVATI Staios
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR,is   IddsZ,,1
I,>                                          N     t                   SUPEOPLoEf,.                      S                    DEMC  REE Troososissass tnes
>     ~         ~~~~~ Wae Sopply0XX                        t
.5                                                                                  ±5~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Go--asooaE  CapiEciS
®   NaE.Iasa CapiTals
Os                      iPsiaay Roads
E r H  I D    ' A          -      Mudeb9t,-         --                                  "         ' ~ A                                      S- ., EMAYA#9P-d  9EEE        II
Ais,pos.,S
& ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-Wadis
I   X 5                                                               _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURPE I Boodaie
ELEVATION fMe,tes)
khaohah  f-to   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~300
K                                                     0.gr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ;.-~~~~~~~~~~~ ~1500
S,sdodX  I                                                                                                        0- 
AEDL   SEA                       'ai                         t     ZsM'                  $        M~7
ER'  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
PE OPLE'S  DEMOCR/A"    REP  rQF  05E MEN
-~~~                                 -~~~           RRROLS IJRMM5~~~~~~-A-WE-PROSZ REZ  555Z
Babel                                                                      MUON USUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~     ~~~~~~~~~SMRAE RE MP5M  MRE
to T P. I r) P i A                      7       Meodc.b(       --AEN                                                                                  -UMESZUZE5UESOU?
Z"IERAREUOLOWNTIR                 ER
EZ_.RRZOUEZMZTRE SM               MR7
0/iLF  CT   AVE/V                                                      555&  IA MZSOS5 MURUM EZOSWEUASS    OU
UMAMAMUMEOUTSR  M                 R,  R            -
AMOERSE FPENRETOERV I             M.               a
o    2 B 0  u  T I                                                                                                                 --ZER /L,,O    o ooZOsLRSsSSo. EM O 05505 LLEMSMZFRSSSZRM  Ml5 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                   T j-S



