F~IAL
OCUTSJCREDIT 'NUMBER 1202 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Sana'a Urban Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1202 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      > , 1982, between YEMEN
ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the   rrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "HCB" means the Housing Credit Bank established under
Presidential Decree No. 86-77 of 1977;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and HCB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "MMH" means the Ministry of Municipalities and Housing
of the Borrower;
(d) "NWSA" means the National Water and Sewerage Authority,
established under the Borrower's Law No. 13-73 of 1973;
(e) "Corporation" means the Yemen General Electric Corpora-
tion; and
(f) "Project Preparation Advances" means the two advances
provided by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated October 20, 1979 and April 30, 1981
from the Borrower to the Association, and dated November 14, 1979


﻿-2-
and June 9, 1981 from the Association to the Borrower f)r the
preparation of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.   The
unwithdrawn balances of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1992, and ending October 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through MMH, and Part B of the Project through HCB, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 out
of the proceeds of the Credit to HCB under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HCB under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, and which shall, without limitation to the foregoing,
provide that HCB shall pay to the Borrower: (i) interest at
a rate of 8% per annum on the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by HCB and outstanding from time to time, and (ii) a
service charge of 1% per annum on the principal amount so relent
and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants or experts: (i)
to advise on project management and execution, including, without


﻿-4
limitation, a chief engineer and an implementetion engineer, and
a housing finance expert to HCB; (ii) for the development of land
registration policies and procedures; and (iii) for training of
Project staff and the preparation of future projects, *whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purpose of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name And nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Unit in the
Department of Housing in MMH with such duties and responsibilities
as shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall appoint and
retain a Project Manager therein, for the duration of the Project,
with such terms of reference, duties and responsibilities as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that in respect
of the sites and services to be developed in Sawad Sawan under
Part A (ii) of the Project and construction loans to be made
under Part B of the Project, beneficiary selection criteria
shall be applied that shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The beneficiaries under the Project shall be selected
by a ,election committee that shall be established not later than
September 30, 1984 or such other date as the Association may
agree, and the Borrower shall provide adequate staff for said
committee.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of establishing and maintaining
separate accounts for the Project pursuant to Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall establish in MMH not later than
December 31, 1982 and shall cause HCB to establish not later than
December 31, 1983, accounting procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-6-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall make appropriate arrange-
ments for the recovery of the cost, including land cost where
appropriate, of the execution of civil works and the installation
of equipment and materials under Part A of the Project, in
accordance with pricing and cost recovery principles satisfactory
to the Associationf,
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause M.H and HCB to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordancF with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project;
such records shall include, without limitation to the foregoing:
(i) a separate account to be kept by MMH reflecting all expendi-
tures under Part A of the Project; and (ii) a separate account to
be kept by HCB reflecting all expenditures under Part B of the
Project, including separate sub-accounts reflecting all expendi-
tures under Category (3) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause HCB to retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Crefit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause MMH and HCB to: (i)
have the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement: for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
eight months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which


﻿-7-
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take the necessary measures
to extend the current solid waste collection and disposal services
in Sana'a to the area of Muzaik, with a view to extend said
collection and disposal services to that area not later than
December 31, 1982.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes that the sale of plots
of land developed under Parts A (i) and (ii) of the Project shall
be made under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
including, without limitation to the foregoing, that if financing
is sought by beneficiaries from MMH for the acquisition of such
plots, MMH shall: (i) charge, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, an interest rate including service charge of 11%
per annum for loans for the acquisition of such plots; and (ii)
stipulate for such loans a repayment period of not more than 20
years; the interest rate in (i) above to be reviewed periodically
by the Borrower in consultation with the Association in the light
of the prevailing market conditions with a view to determining the
most appropriate interest rates to be applied.
Section 4.05. The Borrower indertakes to implement, promptly
after their development and in consultation with the Association,
the land registration policies and procedures developed under
Part A (iv) (a) of the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause HCB to grant the
construction loans under Part B of the Project on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, without
limitation, the following: (i) except as the Association may
othtrwise agree, interest including service charges shall be at
the rate of 12% per annum; (ii) the repayment period of such loans
shall be not more than 10 years; and (iii) said interest rate
shall be periodically reviewed by the Borrower in consultation
with the Association, in the light of financial viability of HCB
and prevailing market conditions, with a view to determining the
most appropriate interest rates to be applied.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1984, establish in the Central Bank of Yemen, Sana'a, a
revolving fund for the purpose of depositing therein the amounts


﻿-8-
received from beneficiaries in repayment of acquisition financing
of plots included in Part A (i) and (ii) of the Project pursuant
to loans in accordance with Section 4.04 of this Agreement and
received from the sale of demonstration houses included in Part A
(iii) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the revolving
fund referred to in paragraph (a) above only for the purposes of
financing further urban development schemes in its territories.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall consult with the Association
prior to introducing organizational and management reforms in
HCB based on the recommendations of the housing finance expert to
be employed under the Project in accordance with Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
Section 4.09. (a) For the purposes of technical supervision
during execution of the Project, and operation and maintenance
after construction, the Borrower shall enter into agreements
satisfactory to the Association, with NWSA in respect of the
water and sewerage schemes component of the Project, and with
the Corporation in respect of the household electricity component
of the Project.
(b) For the purpose of the collection of charges for upgrad-
ing under Part A (i) of the Project and development of sites and
services under Part A (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall
enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Association with NWSA.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agree-
ments referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend or waive said agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 4.10. The Borrower undertakes to carry out the civil
works included in Part A of the Project in accordance with design
standards satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower or HCB of any of their respective obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of HCB or for the suspension of
its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and HCB; and
(b) contracts for the employment of a chief engineer and an
implementation engineer referred to in Section 3.02 (i) of this
Agreement have been signed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
HCB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HCB in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date           7       is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Municipalities and Housing
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Municipalities and Housing
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Ministry of Municipalities and Housing
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /3/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/                 CL       f
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) demonstration              762,000         40%
houses
(b) others                   3,910,000         50%
(2) Equipment and                   380,000         100% of for-
materials                                      eign expendi-
tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory)
and 70% of
other local
expenditures
(3) Construction loans            2,120,000         50% of amounts
disbursed
(4) Consultants' services         3,170,000         100%
(5) Refunding of Project            420,000         Amount due
Preparation Advances
(6) Unallocated                   2,038,000
TOTAL        12,800,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $670,000,
may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿- 14 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   MMH
(i) Upgrading:
The upgrading of about 70 hectares of land in
the area of Muzaik (about 3400 households) through
provision of improved drainage, sanitation, street
lighting and roads and footpaths; and the provision
of financing to acquire developed plots of land.
(ii) Sites and Services:
The development of about 25 hectares of land,
including, inter alia, provision of access roads and
footpaths, water supply and sewerage connections,
street lighting and household electricity, and refuse
collection and street cleaning services, in the area of
Sawad Sawan, to accomodate about 1980 low-income house-
holds; and the provision of financing to acquire deve-
loped plots of land.
(iii) Pilot Shelter:
The construction of about 140 demonstration houses.
(iv) Technical Assistance:
Provision of consultancy and advisory services to
assist MMH in: (a) the development of land registration
policies and procedures; (b) project management and
execution; and (c) training of Project staff and the
preparation of future projects.
Part B:   HCB
Housing Loans and Assistance to HCB
Provision of construction loans, by HCB, to low-
income beneficiaries of the execution of Part A (i)
and (ii) of the Project; and provision of a housing
finance expert to HCB for two man-years.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.    Bidders for works, except demonstration houses, under the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to their place of use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Yemen
Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison ci bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in Yemen
Arab Republic equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if,
as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 18 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the ci.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Contracts for the construction of demonstration houses
included in Part A (iii) of the Project may be let on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.       To the extent
practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 to $500,000 each.
(2) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 each or less may be let on the basis
of limited international tendering by inviting quotations from at
least three manufacturers or suppliers, provided, that the aggre-
gate of such procurement shall not exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
D.   Review of P.ocurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to each contract for civil works or for goods
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $1,000,000 and
$200,000, respectively:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 19 -
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or
price quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


