SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGIINEERING( CONSULTING COMPANY 4
ISO90012
RP287
Project No.: 13 - 02  VOL. 3
QUY NHON - TUY HOA 220kV TRANSMISSION LINE
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
Khanh Hoa Province - 2005



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
ISO 90012000
PROJECT: 13 - 02
QUY NHON - TUY HOA 220kV TRANSMISSION LINE
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
Head of Department  Nguyen Kim Dong
Head of Project Design: Nguyen Thanh Hai
Khanh Hoa Province,  2005
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF
POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
PHAM MINH SON
DIRECTOR



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
The staffs participating in RAP establishment including of:
No.        Full name             Content prepared           Signature
In charge of presiding RAP
1    Tran Van Luyen        establishlment
2    Mai Thi Hop           Establishing RAP
Resettlement Action Plan



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
CONTENTS
ABBREVIATIONS                                                            4
SUMMARY                                                                  5
1. Policy framework                                                   5
2. Project impacts                                                    6
3. Resetlement policy                                                 6
4. Public consultation                                                6
5. Grievance                                                          7
6. Management organization                                            7
7. Implemetation schedule                                             7
8. Cost estimate                                                      8
9. Information dissemination                                          8
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL INTRODUCTION                                          9
1.1 The basis of the report                                              9
1.2 Objectives                                                           9
1.3 Validity of RAP implementation                                       10
1.4 Description of the project                                          11
1.4.1 Characteristic of the project                                      11
1.4.2 Project impacts                                                   12
1.5 Project impacts minimizing measures                                  12
1.6 Implementation cost estimate                                        13
CHAPTER     2: IMPLEMENTATION        ORGANIZATION      AND   LEGAL      14
FRAMEWORK FOR COMPENSATIONAND RESETTLEMENT
2.1. Institutional arrangements                                          14
2.2. Organizational responsibility                                       14
2.3. Staffing organization and responsibilities                          19
2.4 Legal framework                                                      20
CHAPTER 3: ENTITLEMENT POLICY                                           25
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)                                         1



Quy Nhon - 2uy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
3.1 Definition of PAP and limitation to eligibility                    25
3.2 Resettlement and compensation principles                           25
3.3 Eligibility to get compensation entitlements                       27
3.4 Entilement policy                                                  27
3.5 Impacted categories                                                31
CHAPTER 4: SOCIO-ECONOMIC SITUATION OF PROJECT AREA                    32
AND THE PROJECT IMPACTS
4.1 Survey work, inventory of project impacts                          32
4.2 The socio-economic condition of project area                       32
4.2.1 Binh Dinh Province                                               32
4.2.2 Phu Yen Province                                                 33
4.3 Project impacts                                                    34
CHAPTER 5: PUBLIC PARTICIPA TIONAND CONSULTATION                       36
5.1 Objectives of infonnation campaign and consultation program        36
5.2 Consultation and infonn to people                                  36
5.3 Infonnation dissemination and PAPs'consultation                    38
CHAPTER 6: COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCE                                    41
CHAPTER 7:SUPERVISION AND MONITORING                                   43
7.1 Internal supervision                                               43
7.2 Independent supervision                                            43
CHAPTER       8:   IMPLEMENTATION          ORGANIZATION        FOR     45
COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
8.1 Measures for the project implementation                            45
8.1.1 Announcement to PAPs                                             45
8.1.2 Compensation and Resettlement deadlines                          45
8.2 RAP implementation process                                         45
8.3 RAP implementation schedule                                        47
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)                                       2



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                      Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 9: COSTSAND BUDGET                                               48
9.1 Budget                                                               48
9.2 Compensation price determination                                     48
9.2.1 Land                                                               48
9.2.2 Impacted trees and crops                                           49
9.3 Compensation cost estimate                                           49
9.3.1 Cost for RAP establishment                                         49
9.3.2 Compensation cost                                                  50
9.3.3 Management cost                                                    50
9.3.4 Supervision cost                                                   50
9.3.5 Reserved cost                                                      50
9.3.6 Total compensation cost for project                                50
CHAPTER 10: CONCLUSIONAND PROPOSALS                                      51
10.1 Conclusion                                                          51
10.2 Proposals                                                           51
APPENDICES                                                               52
Appendix 1: Entitlement Matrix                                           53
Appendix 2: Table of compensation quantity for Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV T/L  61
Appendix 3: Inventory of Project Affected People                        64-65
Appendix 4: Entitlements of Project Affected People                      69
Appendix 5: Socio-Economic Household Data Sheet of Project Affected People  73
Appendix 6: Minutes of public consultation                               77
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)                                         3



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                       Feasibility Study
ABREVIATIONS
i
- RAP              Resettlement Plan
- PAP              Project Affected Person
- PAPs             Project Affected Persons
- WB               World Bank
- PC               People's Committee
- EVN              Electricity of Vietnam
- LC               Land clearance
- PMB             Project Management Board
- PECC4            Power Engineering Consulting Company 4
- ER               Environmental Resource
- VND              Viet Nam Dong
- SC               Safe Corridor
- ROW              Right-Of-Way
- CPPMB            Central Power Projects Management Board
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                     4



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
SUMMARY
The national industrialization and modernization make contribution to the
country development with purposes of rich people, strong country and a equitable,
democratic and civilized society. In order to strenthen the capacity of supplying
power source, a vitual infrastructure, Electricity of Vietnam (EVN) has established
the project "Transmission, distribution and overcoming natural disasters" (3034-VN)
financed by World Bank (WB). One of its component is "Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa
220kV transmission line" project with total route length of 88,704m going through
the territory of Quy Nhon City, Binh Dinh Province; Tuy Hoa City, Song Cau, Tuy
An and Phu Hoa Districts of Phu Yen Province.
The purpose of this project is to increase the transmission capacity on the line
and get reliable and continuous power supply for the region as well as have condition
to receive energy source from power source of Song Ba Ha hydropower project. In
line with Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line, 220kV Tuy Hoa Substation
will make 220kV grid connection between the Central region and the Southern
region. It makes the capacity distribution to support for electricity supplying ability
in the national electricity system safer and more flexible.
1. Policy framework
The plan on project compensation and resettlement is established based on Decree
197/2004/ND-CP dated December 3, 2004 of the Government regarding the
compensation, resettlement support when the State takes back the land; Decree
1982004/ND-CP dated November 16, 2004 of the Government regarding the method
to determine the land price and the price framework of land kinds; Decree
1812004/ND-CP of the Government regarding the implementation of Land Law,
etc... and guideline on RAP establishment of WB (the policy framework of
unvoluntary resettlement OD 4.30). According to this policy, PAPs are people,
households, entities with or without juridical personality for their assets on project
impacted land and inventoried before the cut-off-date (June 18th, 2004) are entitled
to compensation and resettlement.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                               5



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 22OkVtransmission line                    Feasibility Study
2. Project impacts
The project causes impacts to the followings:
- Perpetual land acquisition at tower foundation positions, ect
- Causing damage to trees, crops and other assets at tower foundation
positions and within ROW.
- Temporary land acquisition under project construction
Results of project data collection show that there are 58 impacted households,
whereas:
+ No household loses over 25% area of agricultural land
+ No affect to cultural relics area, preservation area, pagoda and sensitive
areas
+ No ethnic minority household among impacted households.
During public consultation process, impacted households were agreed to select the
compensation procedure on land and assets in cash.
3. Compensation policy
The cut-off-date is June 18th 2004. The price for making compensation on land,
assets and crops is based on the compensation unit price of Binh Dinh and Phu Yen
Provinces.
All impacted households are entitled according to the policy framework and Vietnam
Decrees such as displacement support, support for production stabilization, etc... Up
till now, the survey result and damage inventory shows that no remarkable impacts to
people, the community and the public assets. As a result, it is unnecessary to have
economical recovery measures.
4. Public consultation
PAPs consultation to get feedback comments will restrict the contradictions and
delay when implementing the project. The resettlement plan will be implemented
following to the reference comments from the authorities and people in order to
maximize their participation in the resettlement plan and imnplementation as well as
socio-economical benefits. The authorities and people are consulted in line route
location, the resettlement policy, implementation of resettlement plan, grievance
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                6



Quy Nhon - TuyHoa 220kV ransmission line                    Feasibility Study
mechanism and the checking, appraisal towards the recovery of life of impected
people after project implementation.
5. Grievance
During project implementation, grievances of impacted people will be solves based
on Vietnam law. All grievances will be solved equitably and the grievances
procedures will be guided by related authorities. The griever will pay no cost for this
grievance.
CPPMB and the local authority are responsible for monitoring the RAP
implementation process. In addition, an independent consulting agency will be
assigned to supervise independently and appraise the compensation and resettlement
implementation process in accordance with the policy stated in this dossier. This
agency can be selected and awarded the contract by the PMB after the approved
resettlement plan or selected and awarded the contract by WB. The supervising
activities are implemented from the beginning of project implementation stage. This
independent supervising agency will report to PMB or WB about its results of
supervising activities.
6. Management organization
CPPMB is the project coordinating unit and cooperates with other agencies such as
the Provincial People's Committee, the local authority, Power Company of Binh
Dinh and Phu Yen provinces and WB in implementing detailed works of project,
especially the RAP implementation plan.
7. Project implementation schedule
Contents                               Time
Establishing and approve the technical design  Quarter I, 2005
Ask for land acquisition, compensation work and May 2005 .September 2005
land clearance                       __    _
Establish and submit bidding document         July 2005  September 2005
Preparation of construction drawings          September 2005  December 2005
Procurement of equipment and materials        December 2005 . August 2006
Construction, revising, testing and hand-over  January 2006 . November 2006
Commissioning and put the project into service  December, 2006
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                7



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
8. Cost estimate
Total project compensation cost is about VND 2,295,371,139 (or USD 145,277).
9. Information dissemination
The draft RAP will be disclosed in Binh Dinh & Phu Yen provinces and the
Information Development Center of WB (VDC) at 63 Ly Thai To, Ha Noi. CPPMB
will send copies of entitlement statement form to the project district authority. All
feedbacks from the local authority and people are considered and supplemented into
the RAP.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                  8



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL INTRODUCTION
1.1 THE BASIS OF THE REPORT
Implementing the Vietnamese Communist Party's policy on the national
industrialization and modernization program, EVN decided to use the loan of WB to
invest in Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line project.
EVN have directed the project implementation step by step.
- Pursuant to Official Letter No. 1127 EVN/AMT - KH dated March 25, 2004
issued by CPPMB regarding the FS establishment of power grid projects.
- Based on the above instruction, CPPMB has made a contract with PECC4
for preparing Feasibility Study Report, RAP and ETA of the project.
Carrying out the contract (with CPPMB), PECC4 has been gathering data,
surveying at sites and preparing RAP report for the project.
1.2 PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
This report is set up with the purpose:
+ Study on policies of compensation, resettlement for households having land
acquisition for construction of substation, foundation, tower, temporary road for work
execution, etc... according to Viet Nam laws and VB guidelines.
+ Proposing the alternatives of compensation, resettlement and the most
efficient way of implementation to the households affected.
+ Helping to choose the right design alternative, minimize the degree of
damage at the implementation of project and ensure the highest socio-economic
interests of the project. During FS stage, carry out to make livelihood-socio-
economic damage survey of project area and work with local authorities concerning
the compensation and resettlement policy for affected households. The survey and
data collecting work focuses mainly on the right of way. Where resettlement is
unavoidable, the program will set out provisions to ensure and help affected
households improve or at least maintain their pre-project conditions.
.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                9



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
The principle objective of the Policy Framework is:
All PAP's residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of way
(ROW) of transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower foundation, the
substation areas, in the service roads under the Project as of the date of the baseline
surveys are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist
them to improve or at least maintain their pre-Project living standards, income
earning capacity and production level. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not
bar the PAP from entitlement to such rehabilitation measures.
During RAP preparation, Decrees and Circulars of Vietnamese Government
such as Decree 197/2004/ND-CP, Decree 181/2004/ND-CP, Decree 188/2004/ND-
CP, etc and Decisions about compensation unit price issued by The peoples'
committees of provinces are applied. The entitlement policy in this RAP are
suggested as follows:
+ Apply a compensation rate according to the market price or replacement
price: Compensation of land and crops (short-day trees) at market price.
Compensation of houses and trees (perennial trees) at conversion price.
+ All affected properties are legible from the cut-off-date (June 18th, 2004).
The affected households who have been registered will be compensated.
This RAP will be furnished to GOV and WB for concurrence.
1.3 VALIDITY OF RAP IMPLEMENTATION
Resettlement and compensation program for PAPs, policy and provisions on
resettlement and compensation entitlement in RAP will only be applied after
approval of WB and Vietnamese Government.
To meet RAP's objectives such as minimizing the resettlement and land
acquisition, PAPs will be supplied the information on project, compensation and
resettlement, the compensation costs will be paid at replacement cost or market cost.
Thus, before implementing resettlement and compensation program, the project
owner and local authorities should check and revise the applied compensation costs
in this report. If there is any compensation unit price non-conforming at the time of
program implementation, the local authorities and Resettlement and Compensation
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 10



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
Board (RCB) need to revise them to ensure sufficient compensation payment for
PAPs according to principles stated in RAP.
Survey data in this report base on feasibility study of the project. If there are
any changes in design, at most the adjustment on affected assets, it is necessary to
revise and update them as per the approved alternative.
1.4 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1.4.1 The project characteristics
Quy Nhon-Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line is planned to be constructed on
the area of Quy Nhon City - Binh Dinh Province; Song Cau, Tuy An Districts - Tuy
Hoa City; Phu Hoa District- Phu Yen Province.
Main characteristics of the line route:
- Voltage level: 220kV.
- Number of circuit: 01 circuit
- Starting-point: 220kV busbar of 220kV Quy Nhon susbtation (exsting) belonging to
Quy Nhon City - Binh Dinh Province.
- End-point: 220kV busbar of 220 kV Tuy Hoa substation (design) belonging to
Phu Hoa District - Phu Yen Province.
- Total length: 88.704km.
- Conductor: Aluminum steel reinforced conductor, symbol ACSR-330/43
with neutral grease for anti-erosion.
- Ground-wire: Using composite optical fiber overhead ground-wire on line
route, for incoming section and outgoing section of 220KV substation suspended another
ground-wire TK-70, length of each section is about 2.5km.
- Insulator and accessories: using glass insulator or equivalent standard. Electro-
mechanical load of suspension string is 7000daN and tension string is 16000 daN. The
creepage distance of suspension disc is 295mm and tension disc is 340mm. Accessories
for suspending conductors and ground wires comply with their sizes, ensuring the
erosion condition and durability reserving coefficient as per norms.
- Towers          : steel tower with hot dip galvanizing, linked by bolts,
manufacture in country
- Arms            : Manufacture arms with towers all-in one block
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                   11



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
- Foundation: + Raft foundation for weak soil
+ Pier foundation for good soil
+ Pile foundation for crossing spans of Ky Lo river
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line, Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV
transmission line, 220kV Tuy Hoa substation, when being constructed, will make
much contribution to the transmission of power system, creating the 220kV grid
connection between the Central region and the Southern region, resulting the national
electricity system safer and more flexible, contributing to the speed hastening of
country industrialization and modenization and supply electricity for people life and
economy in the future.
1.4.2 Project impacts
Impacts on land and properties:
a Permanent impacts:
- -               - Permanent land acquisition for tower foundations
b. Temporary impacts:
- Trees, crops in ROW and temporary service road
- All trees and crops surrounding the tower foundation areas
The safe corridor of the above-mentioned line route is not regulated in Decree
th
54/1999/ND-CP dated July 8 , 1999 of the Government regarding the safe protection
of high voltage power grid and Decree 118/2004/ND-CP of the Government
concerning the amendment of some articles in Decree 54/1999/ND-CP.
With the above-mentioned characteristics and scale, land acquired for the project
construction as follows:
- Number of tower on the whole route   : 217 towers
- Land acquisition for tower foundations  : 21,762m2.
-Temporary acquisition land area in safe corridor of power grid: 1,664,363m2.
On the whole Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV line route, there are 58 households whose
houses and architectural works are within the safe corridor of the line route.
1.5 PROJECT IMPACTS MITIGATION MEASURES
Selection of logical line route and tower location: For the investigation and
design of line route completely avoid passing:
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                12



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
- Market areas, densely populated areas.
- Airport, military areas.
- Near or parallel with communication system
- Temple, pagoda
- Protection forests, natural preserved areas
- Historic and cultural heritage etc.
Technical solutions thoroughlv exDloited:
Rational design of tower span, foundation structure is designed with different
measures in conformity with the chosen site.
Design a rational work execution alternative, choose time for work execution
at periods of harvest and complete work when next crop is not yet cultivated (land is
at rest). If the cultivated period cannot be avoided then manual construction measures
are used in order to diminish the surface of land acquired for work execution, road
for big trucks are not constructed, organize work according to many shifts at high
productivity, reducing the time of lay-out acquisition. During the process of stringing
conductor, make scaffold and pull conductor neatly on belt of land about Sm to avoid
causing damages of trees and agricultural crops. Make defmetely each item of work,
each part of route line to reduce the time of land appropriation. Make full use of the
existing roads for transportation of equipments and for other puoses during the time
of work execution, limiting the construction of new road.
During investigation and work execution process, the workers's camps are set
up on vacant lot, on communal office area, not on private land or cultivated land.
The result of these minimizing measures is that affected houses on the line route
are the least.
During the stage of operation management, when making repairs and
overcoming incidents, following safety measures must be applied:
- Safety measures when making contact with electrical equipments
-Safety measures when carrying out operation management works, repairs of
electric grid.
1.6 PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Total investment capital (In round)  : VND 163,516,043,000
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 13



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 2
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
FOR COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT
Project Management Board and Local Authority of all levels will be responsible
for imnplementing RAP. It should be on schedule, suitable with approved schedule for
the project. The coordination between the project owner and local authorities will be
made closely in order to implement RAP smoothly and effectively and to avoid the
interruption or delay of RAP implementation.
2.1 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The following institutions/agencies will be involved in implementing RAP:
- PCs of 02 provinces: Binh Dinh and Phu Yen
- Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
- Project Management Board - Central Power Projects Management Board
- Consulting Company - Power Engineering Consulting Company No.4.
- Departments of Finance and Goods Price of the above project provinces
- Land Clearance Boards of the above project provinces
- People's Committees of Quy Nhon City, Song Cau, Tuy An Districts - Tuy
Hoa City, Phu Hoa District.
- Land offices of the above project city and districts.
- Land clearance Committees of the above project city and districts
- People's Committees of project affected communes such as Tran Quang
Dieu, Bui Thi Xuan Wards; Xuan Loc, Xuan Binh, Xuan Phuong Communes; Towns
of Song Cau, Xuan Tho 1, Xuan Tho 2, An Dan, Chi Thanh, An Dinh, An Cu, An
Hieo, An Hoa, An My, An Chan, An Phu, Binh Kien, Hoa Kien and Hoa Quang Bac.
- Project affected persons
2.2 FUNCTIONS, TASKS FORCE AND RESPONSIBILITY
* Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
EVN is the owner of the project and is responsible for managing and organizing
of investment policy, investigation, design, construction as well as supervision for
RAP implementation. EVN controls the project preparation and implementation via
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                  14



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
professional agencies, approving decisions concerning resettlement work submitted
by PMB; assigning Central Power Projects Management Board (CPPMB) to directly
manage the whole process of project implementation.
* Project Management Board (PMB)
Central Power Projects Management Board is assigned by EVN in directing
the whole project including the implementation of RAP from impact survey,
inventory, making plans for RAP implementation. Main tasks of PMB will be:
+ Making Master Plan, management and supervision of land clearance
implementation to ensure full determination of relating PAPs, set out satisfied
entitlements as per land clearance policy.
+ To ensure that all PAPs are announced of applied policies for RAP
preparation. Entitlements of PAPs, project information and site clearance plan are
popularized under announcement form. This is considered the proof of their
entitlement towards interests of RAP work.
+ Disseminate project information to PCs of all levels
+ Send RAP to Resettlement Committees, explaining applied models and
entitlements in the project.
+ Supervision/monitoring for compensation payment, coordinate to implement
land acquisition and site clearance.
+ Independent monitoring for RAP implementation, assigning an experienced
and competent agency to do this.
+ Report the implementation process on land clearance work to EVN and WB.
To meet this responsibility, PMB needs to establish a department or a group
including experienced officers to monitor RAP and environment implementation.
*: Provincial People's Committees (PPCs): Binh Dinh, Phu Yen
PPC is the agency approving and directing matters concerning the RAP within
the provincial area. The Project PPC are responsible for:
* Directing departments, branches and local areas in province related to RAP
preparation and implementation such as Land Department, Construction Departnent,
Department of Finance and Goods Price and project affected DPCs.
* Approving the costs of compensation in provincial area.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                15



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
* Approving dossiers of land delivery and recovery in provincial area.
* Establishing Provincial Resettlement and Compensation Committee and
directly manages the activities of this Board.
* Directing and managing the coordination between Branches and local
authorities in RAP implementation.
D Departments of Finance and Goods Price of Binh Dinh and Phu Yen
Provinces
To be responsible for issuing detailed compensation unit prices applied in the
provincial area. During the implementation process, Department of Finance-Goods
Price needs to make cooperation with other departments such as Construction
Department, Land Department, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
and People's Committee of District where the project constructed in order to
establish the compensation unit price for premises, land, trees and crops.
*: Provincial Compensation Committees: Binh Dinh and Phu Yen
PCCs are consulting institutions for provinces about RAP approval and RAP
implementation management according to the provincial approved plan. Provincial
Resettlement Committee will be headed by a Vice Chairnan of Provincial People's
Committee. Provincial Resettlement Committee is mainly responsible for:
* Assisting owner and compensation committees of districts in preparing
detailed plans for compensation and resettlement.
* Checking all inventories of project impacts and detailed implementation
plans prepared and submitted by Compensation Committees of districts. Approval for
implementation plans within 10 days after receiving the plans submitted by District
Resettlement Committees.
* Checking and submitting RAP implementation plans in provinces to PPCs
for approval.
* Solving outstanding problems due to the unsatisfied solution at the district
level.
* Compensation payment for PAPs via District Resettlement Committees.
Provincial Compensation Committees will consist the representatives of:
- Department of Finance and Goods Price
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                16



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
- Construction Department
- Industrial Department
- Department for Agriculture and Rural Development
- Department of Natural Resources and Environment
- Chainnen of People's Committee of related districts
- Representative of Provincial Project Management Boards.
Staffs of Provincial Resettlement Boards will be work concurrently and get
allowances according to PPC's decisions. Assistants work during the project
implementation and get salary during the work period.
*: People's Committees of Quy Nhon City, Song Cau, Tuy An Districts, Tuy
Hoa City and Phu Hoa District.
Being responsible for guiding compensation and resettlement activities in
district and city areas. People's Committees of Districts and Cities are responsible
for:
+ Creating good conditions and coordinate with relating agencies in survey,
inventory of project impact; organize community consultation activities, information
dissemination on the project implementation policy and land acquisition plan to
people of commune (ward) where project constructed.
+ Establishment of Resettlement Committees of Districts (Cities)
+ Directing and monitoring RAP implementation in districts (cities)
+ Solving relating matters during RAP implementation together with
Resettlement Committees of district (city).
* Resettlement Committees of Quy Nhon City, Song Cau, Tuy An Districts,
Tuy Hoa City and Phu Hoa District
These are key institutions being mainly responsible for implementing RAP in
district (city) area. Resettlement Conunittees of districts consist of experienced
officers of the data-gathering inventory. Resettlement Committees of districts (Cities)
are mainly responsible for:
* Checking all survey documents concerning affected households and assets,
making Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) for each household including of
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 17



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                     Feasibility Study
affected assets, total compensation cost based on entitlement policies regulated in
RAP.
* Checking the unit prices of compensation stated in RAP, suggest adjustment
to comply with market prices at the plan implementation period.
* Co-ordinating with PMB, consultant agency to organize RAP meetings in
local section and organize community consultation together with project owner.
* Summarize and submit data affected in local section to Provincial
Resettlement Committee.
* Based on the policy and approved schedule in RAP, preparing the detailed
implementation plan and submit it to Provincial Resettlement Committee.
* Directly make payment on compensation and allowances to PAPs in a
timely manner.
* Settling the complaints and grievances of PAPs, solving any difficulties
during the implementation period, and suggest the solutions for the outstanding
issues to Provincial Resettlement Committees and Owner.
* Making monthly report and send them to PRCs, Owner and Chairmen of
DPCs.
Resettlement Committees of districts (city) will be headed by Vice Chairmen
of districts (cities) and consist of following members:
- Representative of Economic Office
- Representative of Land Office.
- Representative of Agricultural and Rural Development Office
- Representative of Statistic Office
- Representative of Industrial Office
- Representative of affected Commune.
- Representative of PAPs
Staffs of Resettlement Boards of Districts (cities) will work concurrently and
enjoy allowances according to decision of District or City 's decision. Assistants
work during the project implementation and get salary during the work period.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 18



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
*4 Commune (ward) People's Committees
* Contributing to Overall Detailed Measurements Surveys.
* Co-ordinate with Resettlement Committees of districts for classifying
impacted assets, determine the legality and legibility of assets.
* Certify affected assets in general survey for compensation dossier of each
household (in the survey note).
* Assisting local people in overcoming the difficulties during the process of
construction or rehabilitation of damages caused by project implementation. Making
public information about the project and disseminating policies in RAP.
* Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
* Directly participate in the general survey, consider thoroughly their
entitlement and responsibility policy. After getting full entitlements, PAPs should
transfer the construction surface on time.
* Propose expectation, requirement for the above mentioned institutions and
monitor their implementation.
PMBs of Binh Dinh and Phu Yen provinces will arrange full experienced
staffs to ensure that the RAP will be implemented smoothly as the schedule accepted.
2.3 STAFFING ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBLES
Table 2.1: Responsibilities of RAP implementing Institutions
No.             Activities                      Institutions
1 Organizing meetings with PAPs to Compensation Committees
disseminate information about RAP
Monitoring    and     certifying Project  Management  Board   and
impacted  households  and  their Resettlement Committees of district
2
assets                         (city)  coordinate  with  Commune
People's Committees
Project Management Board, Land
Clearance Committee coordinate with
3 Detailed measurement survey
Commune People's Committees and
relevant Units of local authority.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                19



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
4   Infonming for PAPs             Project Management Board
Decision    on     compensation Compensation Committees
problems
6   Compensation payment           Compensation Committees and Project
Management Board
7   Internal Monitoring            Project Management Board
Department of Natural Resources and
Environment or provincial socio-
8   Independent Monitoring
science Units selected by Project
Management Board.
2.4 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
This is a project with loan from World Bank so the legal grounds applied will
be a combination of Vietnam and WB policies.
a. The Legal Documents of the Government of Vietnam
According to Vietnam Law on land passed by National Assembly Term XI,
Session IV on November 26th, 2003 and come into force from July Ist, 2004.
Article 5: Land Tenure
1. Land is subject to the ownership of all people and the State is the owner's
representative.
2. The State carries out land decision right as follows:
a. Deciding the land using purpose via the decision, approval of land using
plan (hereinafter called plan, land using plan).
b. Regulating land delivery limit and land using period.
c. Deciding land delivery, land leasing, land recovery and permit the changing
of land using purpose.
d. Fixing land price.
3. The Stated carries out the regulating right of income sources from land via
financial policies about land as follows:
a. Collecting land use charge, land leasing charge.
b. Collecting land use tax, income tax from land use right transfer.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                20



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
c. Regulating on the value added part from land not due to investments of land
user.
4. The State grants LUR for land user via forms of land delivery, land leasing,
acknowledging LUR for stable land users; stipulating right and responsibility of land
user.
Article 7: The State carries out the owner representative right of all people
about land and implements common state administration about land.
1. The National Assembly passes law on land, decides the plan and land use
plan of the whole country, carrying out the supreme supervision right towards the
land administration and use in the whole country.
2. The Government decides the plan and land use plan of provinces, Central
cities and the plan, land use plan on the purpose of defense, security; implements
common state administration about land in all country.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Enviromnent is responsible with GOV
concerning the state administration about land.
3. People's Councils of all levels carry out the supervision right on land law
implementation in local section.
4. People's Committees of all levels carry out the representative right of land
owner and right of state administration about land at local section as per the
competence stipulated by law.
In addition, other legal documents are also applied such as:
* Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP issued by GOV on December 3rd, 2004 regulates
compensation, resettlement support for recovered land by GOV.
* Circular No.1 16/2004/TT-BTC issued December 7th, 2004 by the Ministry of
Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No. 197/2004fND-CP issued
by GOV on December 3rd, 2004 regulates compensation, resettlement support
for recovered land by GOV.
* Decree No 188/2004/Nd-CP of November 16th, 2004 on the stipulation of
method to determine the land price and the frame for the price of land types.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 21



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
* Circular No.1 14/2004/TT-BTC issued November 16t, 2004 by the Ministry of
Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No 188/2004/Nd-CP of
November 16th, 2004 on the stipulation of method to determine the land price
and the frame for the price of land types.
. Decree No. 181/2004/ND-CP issued by the GOV concerning the
implementation of Land Law.              X
!  The Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8t, 1999 on the protection of
the high voltage networks.
* Decree No. 118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding the amendment
of some articles in Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8i, 1999.
. Law on Petition and Accusation approved by National Assembly on
December 02, 1998
* Decree No. 67/1999/ND - CP, issued by GOV on 7/81999 regulates in detail
the Law on Petition and Accusation.
b. World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
* The primary objective of this policy is to ensure that PAPs who have lost
assets are compensated at replacement cost and are provided with recovery measures
to help them improve better or at least maintain their standard of life and their income
capacity as in pre-project conditions.
* The policy framework is established based on the principles and objectives,
selection criteria for PAPs, entitlements, legal framework and institutions, mode of
rehabilitation and compensation, the participation of people. Furthennore, procedures
of grievance will be guided in the process of compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation for PAPs.
c. Comparison between Government of Vietnam and World Bank
Approaches
* There are a number of ways in which the approaches of the Vietnam
Government - both in policy and practice - are compatible with World Bank
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 22



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
guidelines so that PAPs can have legitimate entitlements. The most important
compatibilities are:
* Vietnam has a process whereby most people without legal land rights may
meet conditions of legalization and receive compensation for losses.
* Permanent residents are provided with options that include relocation to an
improved site, or cash, or a combination of the two.
* Resettlement sites offer not only better-improved infrastructure and services
but also represent a higher standard of living.
* Allowances are provided to help the PAPs in the transition period and there is
an institutional structure through which people are infonned, can negotiate
compensation, and can appeal.
* Differences between the approaches and measures that need to be addressed
within the program also exist. However, in this context, procedures exist
within national and City governments that allow the granting of waivers of
domestic law on specific projects that may be in conflict with that of the
funding agency.
d. Required Waivers
In order to meet the requirements of the World Ba-nk OD4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement a number of articles in various Vietnamese laws and regulations which
do not ensure compensation at replacement cost or set eligibility provisions which do
not extend the right to rehabilitation and or assistance to households without proper
land paper, will be waived.
The articles of law and regulations that will be waived are mentioned below:
* Price of Land for Calculation of Compensation
According to Vietnam regulations, the calculation of land price for
compensation will be based on Decree 188/2004/ND-CP, Decree 181/20041ND-CP,
etc and Circulars No. 116/2004/TT-BTC, No. 114/2004/TT-BTC.
To ensure that the objectives of the project resettlement policy are met, unit
price for land compensation established by the Project Provincial/City People's
Committees will be adjusted to meet at replacement costs.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 23



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
The Item 4, Article 2 of Decree 17/2001/ND-CP dated May 04, 2001 to guide
on the ODA management stipulates that "in the case of the international agreements
on ODA have been signed between GOV and sponsor stipulates other contents, then
that international agreements will be followed".
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                   24



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 3
ENTITLEMENT POLICY
3.1 DEFINITION OF ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATION TO ELIGIBILITY
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) including people confirmed by data collected
from the survey and investigation process as follows: .
- PAPs have houses which are partially or totally affected (temporarily or
permanently) by the project.
- PAPs with partial or total impacted residental land or agriculture land by the
project, temporarily or permanently.
- PAPs with businesses and related income which are partially or totally
affected (temporarily or permanently) by the project.
- PAPs have crops (annual and perennial) and trees which are partially or
totally affected by the project.
- Encroachers who settled into the proposed affected area after the cut-off date
(June 18th, 2004) will have no entitlement to compensation and resettlement. They
will be required to demolish their structure and cut the trees or harvest their crops for
land clearance to the project. In the case necessary, they will be forced to be removed
out of the proposed project area. Nevertheless, they do not have to pay any fine or
sanction.
3.2 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION PRINCIPLES
The compensation and resettlement plan is established based on fundamental
principles, i.e conforming to laws, decrees, policies regulated by Vietnamese
Government and WB's guidelines consisting of:
1. Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be
minimized as much as possible.
2. All DP's residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of
way (ROW) of transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower
foundation, the substation areas, in the service roads under the project as of
the date of the baseline surveys are entitled to be provided with
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 25



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                      Feasibility Study
rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist them to improve or at least
maintain their pre-project living standards, income earning capacity and
production levels. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost should not bar the
DP from entitlement to such rehabilitation measures.
3. The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) compensation at
replacement cost, without deduction for depreciation or salvage materials for
houses and other structures; (ii) agricultural land for land of equal productive
capacity acceptable to the DPs or in cash at replacement cost according to
DP's choice ; (iii) replacement of residential/premise land of equal size
acceptable to the DP or in cash at replacement cost according to DP's choice;
and (iv) transfer and subsistence allowances.
4. Location of resettlement and relocation should be as close as possible to
existing residential area of PAPs.
5. The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the rehabilitation
means will be provided to the PAPs not over one month prior to the expected
start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
6. Plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation
measures wIll be carried out in consultation with the PAPs, to ensure minimal
disturbance. Entitlements will be provided to PAPs not over one month prior
to the expected start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
7. The standard of life, the infrastructure of community must be maintained or
improved better than their prior place.
8. Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitation will be
made available and as where and when required.
9. Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design, planning,
consultation and implementation of RAP.
10. Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP will be carried out.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                    26



Quy Nhon - TuyHoa 22OkVtransmission line                     Feasibility Study
3.3 ELIGIBILITY TO COMPENSATION ENTITLEMENT
Legitimate PAPs are all the affected households and institutions included in
the inventory with or without legal title included in the RAP inventory or able to
demonstrate with other means that prior to RAP cut-off date they owned, rented or
used land, and properties associated with land as defined in 3.1 item.
3.4 ENTITLEMENT POLICY
DP's will be entitled to the following types of rehabilitation and assistance
measures as per the policy framework OD 4.30:
* PAP's losing agricultural land and crops
(i)   The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land
will be through provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal
productive capacity, satisfactory to the PAP.
However, if the PAP prefers to receive cash compensation then
the following applies:
-     if the portion of the land to be lost represents 25% or less
than 25% of the total area of the landholding, and the
remaining land is still a viable economic holding, cash
compensation, at full replacement cost, may be provided to
the PAP; or
-     if more than 25%  of a villager's agricultural land is
acquired and the remaining holding is not viable then the
Project will acquire the entire landholding and provide cash
compensation at full replacement cost.
(ii) PAP' s will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit
or industrial trees at market price. Productive trees will be
compensated  at replacement cost.    Fruit trees will be
compensated for the remaining harvests.
(iii) PAP's whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the
each sub-Project will be compensated for their loss of income,
standing crops and for the cost of soil restoration and-damaged
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 27



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                      Feasibility Study
infrastructure. Land will be rehabilitated after the project
construction by PMB.
* PAP's losing residential land and house/structure
(i)   The mechanism for compensating loss of residential land and
structures will be: (1) the provision of replacement residential land
(house site and garden) of equivalent size, satisfactory to the PAP
or cash compensation at replacement cost according to PAPs'
options; and (2) cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost
of the house/structures, without deduction for depreciation or
salvage materials or compensate in kind according to PAPs'
options.
(ii)  If residential land is only partially being affected by the Project and
the remaining areas are not sufficient for reorganizing PAPs' then
at the request of the PAP, the entire residential land will be acquired
at full replacement cost.
(iii) If house/other structure is only partially being affected by the
Project and the remaining areas are not convenient to using, the
house/ structure will be acquired at full replacement cost, without
depreciation.
* PAP's will also be provided compensation at full replacement cost, without
deduction for depreciation and salvage materials for any other fixed assets affected in
part or in total by the project, such as tombs and water wells, etc.
Pursuant to Decree 197/2004/ND-CP issued by the GOV concerning compensation,
resettlement support for recovered land by GOV, then PAPs will be supported as
follows:
- As per Article 27: Transportation allowance
Households getting land recovered by GOV must relocate within the province, city
are entitled to a maximum of 3 million VND, relocating out of the province are
entitled to a maximum of 5 million VND. The level of allowance in details will be
regulated by the Provincial People's Committee.
Plan on cormpensation and resettlement                                  28



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
Entities getting fully conditions to be compensated on land and assets when
being recovered, however they must change the location then they will be supported
completely the actual displacement cost, dismantling and installation.
People who are recovered the residential land, having no other residential place then
within tirme waiting for rehabilitating the new place, will be arranged in the
temporary houses or supported with money for house renting; the time and the
support level in details are regulated by Provincial PC in accordance with the local
reality.
- As per Article 28: Restoration allowance
Households, people directly make agricultural production, when being recovered
more than 30% area of assigned agricultural land, will be supported for stabilizing
the life within 3 months without relocation and within 6 months with relocation; in
case relocate in areas with difficult or especially difficult socio-economical
conditions then the support time is maximum of 12 months. The support level in cash
for one person per month equivalent to 30 kg of rice calculated as per the average
price in local region.
When the GOV recovers land of economical entities, registered business households
and causes business pausing, the maximum support level is 30% of an annual income
after tax, according to the average income of three subsequent years before confinned
by the tax agency. The support level in details are regulated by Provincial PC in
accordance with the local reality.
-    As per Article 29: Support for changing the career and creating
employment.
-    As per Article 30: Support for the hirer not belonging to the state
ownership
Households, people who are renting houses not belonging to the state ownership,
when being recovered the land by GOV and must dismantle the house and relocate
then will be supported with the displacement cost equivalent to the level regulated at
Item 1 Article 27 of this Decree. Pursuant to the local reality condition, the Provincial
PC regulates the support level to stabilize their life and production.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 29



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
-    As per Article 31: Support level when recovering the public land of
communes, wards or towns.
-     Other support such as beside the support regulated in Articles 27, 28,
29, 30 and 31 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP, pursuant to the local actual
situation, the Chairman of Provincial PC decides the other support
measures to ensure the life and production stabilization for people who
were recovered the land; in special cases, this will be submitted to the
Prime Minister for decision.
Forms of subsidy and bonus for PAPs
Type of subsidy                        Amount
- Monthly subsidy for relocated PAPs  30kg rice/month for each person in 6
months, subsidy granted at one time for
each household with total or partial land
area that impossible to substitute:
- Displacing subsidy               1,000,000 - 3,000,OOOVND for inside
province; 3,000,000 - 5,000,OOOVND for
outside province.
- Displacement subsidy             Maximum of VND 3,000,000 for inside
province and VND 5,000,000 for outside
province.
Supporting for the whole cost for
dismantling, installation.
Supporting the house-renting money (due
to the decision of the Chainnan of
Provincial PC)
- Subsidy for life and production 30 kg of rice/month/person within 3
stabilization                      months if not displace; within 6 months if
displacing the accommodation and within
12 months if displacing to the difficult
accommodation.
Supporting 30% of the income in one
year if affecting to the business.
- Subsidy for changing career and The impacted household losing over 30%
creating the employment            area of the agricultural production land will
be supported for changing career.
- Other subsidy levels             Due to the decision of the Chairman of
Provincial PC.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 30



T
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
3.5 IMPACTED CATEGORIES
By the nature of the project impacts as described above and based on the
survey of the PAPs the impacted categories are classified into 7 categories.
Category 1: Temporary acquisition of productive land in ROW.
Category 2: Temporary acquisition of residential land and garden land in ROW
without houses or structures in ROW.
Category 3: Temporary impact on residential and garden land. Partial
house/building within ROW (the impacted area is less than 25% but not affect to the
common structure. Residential and garden land outside of ROW is sufficient for re-
organizing (over 60m2 in urban area and 100m2 in rural area).
Categorv 4: Temporary impact on residential and garden land. Impact more
than 25% or less than 25% of total house/building area and impact to the common
structure. Land outside of ROW is sufficient for re-organizing (over 60m2 in urban
area and 100m2 in rural area).
CateeorV 5: Temporary impact on residential or garden land in ROW.
House/structure is partially or totally affected. Land outside of ROW is not sufficient
for re-organizing (less than 60m2 in urban area and 100m2 in rural area).
CateeorY 6 : Permanent land acquisition for tower foundation.
Cate2ory 7: PAP impacted on business or other services
Refer to Appendix 1 for details of impacted categories.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 31



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 4
SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITION OF PROJECT AREA &
PROJECT IMPACTS
4.1. Inventory of project impacts
Inventory of project impacts is implemented by PECC4 with coordination and
assistance of project local authorities. The content of inventory focuses on:
- Overall survey of project affected households
- Survey of affected public assets, enterprises, collective farm,
afforestration yards,...
- Survey of land acquisition area for project construction.
The survey is implemented by Survey Group in coordination with project
affected local sections. Each survey group consists of 3 or 4 people. General survey
votes concerning the socio-economical condition as well as impacts on land, trees,
crops, etc... are established for 100% households with houses affected by project.
Socio-economic survey was implemented with households for so as to
determine characteristics of affected community, evaluating the population condition,
premises, main economic activities, income of households,... The data of
this socio-economic survey are used to orient the resettlement and compensation
policy and to make base for measurement of life rehabilitation level in the process of
resettlement implementation later on.
4.2. Socio-economic condition of project area
4.2.1. Binh Dinh Province
Binh Dinh is a province on the coastal area of the Southern Central Region,
adjacent in the North to Quang Ngai province, in the South to Phu Yen, in the West
to Gia Lai province, in the East to the Eastern Sea. The natural land surface of the
whole province is 6,076km2.
In administrative structure, Binh Dinh has Qui Nhon City and the districts
namely An Lao, Hoai Nhon, Hoai An, Vinh Thanh, Phu My, Phu Cat, Tay Son, An
Nhon, Tuy Phuoc, Van Canh. Quy Nhon city is the political, economic and cultural
Plan on comnpensation and resettlement                                32



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 22OkVftransmission line                 Feasibility Study
center of the province, with many ethnic groups and the total population of the
province is 1,055,372 inhabitants till 2000. There are many ethnic groups living in
Binh Dinh province: The Kinh people occupies 98% of the population, the remaining
are some other ethnic minorities such as Ba Na, Hre, Cham etc.
Binh Dinh is situated on the important communication lines of the country:
National Road IA and national railways along the province, National Road 19 to Gia
Lai and highland provinces. The Seacoast has 134km length with many islands, gulfs
and bathing seashores. Quy Nhon port has favourable exchanges with Phu Yen
province, the Highlands, Lowee Laos, Northeast of Cambodia. These areas have
great potentialities of goods, specific forestry products, industrial crops,
minerals,etc...
The topography of Binh Dinh province is complex, divided into 3 areas. The
mountainous area occupies 70% the total surface, situated in the west, belonging to
the east side of Truong Son Range, average altitude 500m. The hilly area between the
mountains and the plains occupies about 10% the total surface. The plane on seacoast
occupies about 20% the total surface.
4.2.2. Phu Yen Province
Economy: Phu Yen Province gets low point of departure in economy but in the
period 1991 - 1995, GDP has increased in average 9.4% each year, in 1995 - 1998
increased correlatively 1,037 milliards VND, 1,168 milliards VND and 1,355
milliards VND
Society: Phu Yen is divided in 8 administrative units: Tuy Hoa City and 07
districts: Tuy An, Song Cau, Dong Xuan, Son Hoa, Song Hinh, Phu Hoa and Tuy
Hoa. Tuy Hoa City is the socio-economic and cultural centre of the province. Phu
Yen has many ethnic groups among which the Kinh people occupies 95.5% of the
total population, the remaining ethnic minorities are Ede, Bana, Cham Hroi and others
living mainly in mountainous districts: Song Hinh, Dong Xuan, Son Hoa with irregular
distribution. The population living in countryside is 81.1%, city is 18.9%.
Socio-economic development objectives in the period 2000 - 2010
- GDP growth rate on average annually 12 -13%.
- GDP per capita on average in 2010 reaching 700 -800 USD.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                               33



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
- Export turnover striving to reach 30 millions USD in 2010.
- Budget revenue striving to reach 12% GDP in 2010.
- Population increase rate will be reduced to 1.7% in the period 2001 - 2010.
4.3 PROJECT IMPACTS
Categories of Project impacts:
Safe corridor for the line route is defined on the Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP
dated 8 July 1999 by Gov on security protection for high voltage power network and
Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May 10h, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
articles in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8 , 1999.
Project impacts including of:
+ All houses and public structures in the safe corridor are required to moved.
+ All high trees over 4 meters high in the safe corridor of T/L will be cut.
+ All structures out of the safe corridor but it is supposed to impact to the
project or be affected by the project such as bomb and mine warehouse, gas station,
stone mine, communication centers, etc will be removed. It should avoid these
structures during process of investigation; if it is impossible due to difficult
topography, removal of these structures must be considered and discussed.
+ Permanently acquisition land for the project consists of: Land permanently
acquired for construction of tower foundation.
+ Temporary impacted land for the project consists of:
- Areas of safe corridor of T/L and land area during the process of pulling
conductors, etc... The impacted land area will be expected temporarily acquired from
01 month to 18 months, the affected time depends on weather and project
construction schedule.
Results of survey
Inventory survey work for project impacts was carried out from 2004. Results
are as below tables:
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 34



!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                     Feasibility Study
Table 4.1: Inventory ofproject land impacts
No.       Kind of impacts       Unit     Binh Dinh    Phu Yen    Remarks
1   Crops                      m2          0         522,686
2   Paddy                        2         0\         68,300
3   Eucalyptus                 tree      21,037       31,664
4   Fruit Trees                tree        0           648
5   Cashew                     tree        32         1,006
6   Natural forest              m2       19,101      188,362
Permanent land acquisition
for tower foundation
7   Forest land                 m2        3,048       8,728
Agricultural land           m2                    9,067
Residential land            m2        265          654
8   Affected households      household     17          41
On Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV line route, there are 58 affected households
in which 29 households must be compensated. These households are allowed to be
stayed, however the grounding system will be improved to ensure and maintain their
lives in the safe corridor of the line route. For the temporary impacts on paddy and
crops, only make compensation on the area due to conductor pulling is of 5m (the
safe corridor of the line route is of 21.2m). There is no affected ethnic minority
household then the impacts on ethnic minorities are not mentioned in this RAP.
Categories of affected households
Due to the specific characteristic of the T/L development project, affected
households are classified as per Appendix 1.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 35



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
5.1 Objectives of information campaign and consultation program
Information dissemination to consultation with and participation of the
affected people and involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts (ii)
minimize the risk of project delays and (iii) enable the project to design the
resettlement and rehabilitation program as a comprehensive development program to
fit the needs and priorities of the affected people thereby maximizing the economic
and social benefits of the project investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and PAP Consultation
Program are as follows:
* To share fully information about the proposed project its components and
its activities with the affected people.
* To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and
communities required to be undertaken for resettlement planning and
implementation.
* To ensure transparency in all activities related to land recovering,
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation for PAPs.
* To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the affected people
as well as information about their reaction/feedback to proposed policies and
activities.
PAPs will be entitled to participate in different stages during the process of
investigation, survey, RAP preparation and implementation. They will be invited to
participate in meetings organized by the owner and local authorities in order to offer
opinions on replacement alternatives, entitlement policies, listening to procedures,
process of grievance implementation, responsibility of competent institutions and
responsibility of PAPs during the process of RAP implementation.
5.2. Information campaign, PAPs & agency consultation
There are two phases of the public infornation campaign and RAP
consultation:
Plan on comnpensation and resettlement                                36



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
Phase 1:
During RAP planning and survey, make interviews with PAPs for their
expectation and selection of compensation measures. During the process of
investigation, make coordination with local authorities for agreement on line route
selection.
Phase 2:
After RAP's approval, PMB and local authorities will organize meetings with
PAPs to announce information of project, compensation policy and entitlement,
replacement solutions, allowances, subsidy mentioned in RAP plan.
To ensure that PAPs, their representatives and local governments of the
affected areas fully understand on the details of RAP, PMB will also announce to all
PAPs the compensation and rehabilitation policy applied in the project before making
compensation and resettlement payment for PAPs.
The RIB will contain information on the followings:
Part I      - Project description.
- Project objectives
- Implementation schedule
- Project impacts
- Eligibility to compensation and rehabilitation and entitlements policy
for the project affected people
- Institutions are responsible for resettlement
Part 2      - Specific entitlements of PAPs
- Description of the detailed impact of the project on the specific
household
- Compensation rates for each type of impact
- Legality and Eligibility to compensation
- Resettlement and rehabilitation alternatives.
- Implementation schedule for compensation and resettlement
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                  37
m  -                    -         m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
5.3. Information dissemination and PAPs' consultation
According to policy applied in this project, all PAPs are entitled to project
information, entitlement to compensation. All PAPs have the right to take part in
RAP implementation to ensure that they enjoy proper compensation.
PAPs will be informed and consulted through the following stages:
+ Staffs of PMBs and Resettlement Committees of provinces, districts (town)
and commune (ward) authority confirm the land acquisition part and make inventory
of all structures, land, crops and trees affected by the project with the help of PAPs as
well as the public structures affected.
+ PMP and Resettlement Committees of provinces, districts, commune
authority will organize meetings with participants of land recovering process,
announce the project information to them, discuss on their suggestion and opinions.
All PAPs and people are invited to participate in this meeting.
The meetings schedule and participants are expected as follows:
The first time:
It is expected to organize after the project's approval with the above mentioned
content, but the project impacts and resettlement and compensation policy are
pressed in order to take advantage of PAP's participation in the inventory and survey
work
Participants are:
- Representative of PMB
- Representative of Provincial Resettlement Committee
- Representative of District level authority
- Representative of Commune level authority
- PAPs or representatives of PAPs
The second time:
It is expected to organize before resettlement and compensation payment, with
the same content of the 1st time but compensation policy and schedule are pressed to
ensure the fair and give favorable condition for site clearance work.
Participants are:
- Representative of PMB
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 38



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
- Representative of Provincial Resettlement Committee
- Representative of District level authority
- Representative of Commune level authority
- PAPs or representatives of PAPs
- Representative of PECC4
The meetings are organized with following content:
+ Cadres of PECC4 state the project objectives, make detailed description of the
project impact on land, agricultural crops, the policies, principles of implementation
as well as inform the policies of compensation on properties, land, agricultural crops
of the project Compensation Committee.
+ Reference to opinions during the project execution stage
+ General infonnation on the project
Right after signing credit agreement and preparation for project
commencement, the Project Management Board will organize meetings with
involved Provincial People's Committees of Binh Dinh, Phu Yen, and Quy Nhon
city; District People's Committees of Song Cau, Tuy An, Tuy Hoa, Phu Hoa and PC
of affected communes in order to inform local authorities of all levels on project
policy, suggesting them to coordinate their activities concerning the site clearance
work.
+ General information on RAP
When carrying investigation on project impact, a campaign of information and
reference on opinions about RAP must be taken including: socio-economic
documents, investigation sheet on statistics of land, properties, agricultural crops
being affected; giving instructions on filling all necessary information in the available
investigation sheet, organize people meetings to inform the policies of compensation
price applying, the progress of project for affected households and local authorities of
all levels.
+ Information spread on local multi-media means
The PMB works in combination with the local authorities for information on
multi-media means such as local radio system about the project such as the stages of
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 39



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
project development, information on RAP and project impact on the community in
the project area.
After obtaining the public comments, summarizing the results collected with
the agreement of local inhabitants in the project area and RAP is approved,
compensation measures will be carried out, and from then implementing the site
clearance work and preparing for work execution.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                   40



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 6
GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS
The main objective of RAP implementation is to ensure the fair and adequacy
during compensation payment for PAPs. The resettlement and compensation program
should be implemented in such a way that satisfies both partners: the owner and
PAPs. Grievance, complaint and solution are the process related to the owner and
PAPs during the process of RAP implementation. To solve them timely and
effectively, relevant institutions such as PMB, DRC, PRC need to respond to the
complaints of the PAPs speedily and sensibly, avoid project delays and difficulty for
PAPs. The solution should be agreed by PAPs.
During the project implementation, PAP's complaints and grievances will be
dealt with according to the regulation of Vietnamese laws. PAPs raising complaints
will be treated fairly and guided by related agencies on the order, procedures and
complaints of RAP, in addition no charge will be paid for their complaints.
Since the entire resettlement and rehabilitation program is being carried out with the
participation of the PAPs, to ensure that the PAPs have avenues for redressing their
grievances related to any aspect of compensation and resettlement, detailed
procedures of redresses of grievances have been established for the project. The
mechanism is designed to be easy, transparent and fair.
Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of RAP's, including the
determined area and price of the lost assets, will be handled as follows:
First step:
If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation
program, he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance with commune authorities.
Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within fifteen days from the
date it receive the complaint.
Second step:
If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she can
bring the complaint to the District People's Committee (DPC) or District
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 41



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 22OkVtransmission line                     Feasibility Study
Resettlement Committee (DRC) within fifteen days from the date of the receipt of
the decision in stage 1.  The District People's Committee (DRC) or District
Resettlement Committee (DRC) will reach a decision on the complaint witiin fifteen
days.
Third step:
If the PAP is still not satisfied with the decisiQn at district level, he/she can
appeal to the Provincial People's Committee (PCC) or Provincial Resettlement
Committee (PRC) within 15 days of receiving the decision of the DPC or DRC. The
Provincia] People's Committee (PRC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee (CRC)
will reach a decision on the complaint within fifteen days.
Fourth step:
If the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the Provincial level, the case may
be submitted for consideration by the District Court within 15 days of receiving
the decision of the PPC or PRC.
PAP's will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees.
Coercion for site clearance can not be applied while PAPs are waiting for
solving the complaints.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the commune
and processed. Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within 02
weeks.
In case of PAPs are illiterate persons, they can make an oral complaint with the
representatives of affected households and their representatives will record all queries
to submit to authority levels.
Every authority level will resolve the complaints as per the time regulated
above.
The disputes are organized publicly and implemented in accordance with law.
Detailed procedures for redress of grievances and appeal process shown publicized
among the PAPs during participation meetings and also in the offices of RBs.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 42



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 7
MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Implementation of RAPs will be regularly supervised and monitored by the
respective PCs/PMB in coordination with the respective District and Communes
Peoples' Committees and Communes. The findings will be recorded in quarterly
reports to be furnished to EVN or MOI.
7.1. INTERNAL MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Internal supervision and monitoring include the following activities:
- Verify that the baseline information of all PAP's has been carried out and that
the valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation,
resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in accordance
with the provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective RAP.
- Oversee that the Inventories and RAP's are implemented as designed and
approved.
- Verify that funds for implementing the Inventories and RAP's are provided to
the respective PMBs at local level (provincial/district) in a timely manner and in
amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are used by the respective
PMB's in accordance with the provisions of RAP.
- Record all grievances and their resolution and ensure that complaints are dealt
with in a timely manner.
7.2. Independent monitoring
An independent agency or individual consultant will be retained by PMB of the
MOI and EVN to periodically carry out external monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP's. The independent agencies will be academic or research
institutions, non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) or independent consulting firms,
all with qualified and experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to the World
Bank.
In addition to verifying the information furnished in the internal supervision and
monitoring reports of the respective PMBs, the external monitoring agency will visit a
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                43



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
sample of 20% of household PAPs in each relevant province six months after each
RAP implementation to:
- Determine whether the procedures for PAPs participation and delivery of
compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements has been done in accordance with
this Policy Framework and RAP.
- Assess if the Policy Framework objective of enhancement or at least restoration
of living standards and income levels of PAPs have been met.
- Gather qualitative indications of the social and economic impact of Project
implementation on the PAPs.
- Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of RAPs, as the case
may be, to achieve the principles and objectives of this Policy Framework.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                  44



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 8
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION ON
COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
8.1. MEASURES FOR THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8.1.1. Announcement to PAPs
All PAPs shall be thorough informed about the rights and policies of RAP
including entitlement policies, rate of compensation for every type of impact, the
active participation right in land acquisition process, complaint and grievance. RAP
information will be prepared by PMB and announced to all PAPs or informed at the
meetings in province, district and commune levels; on television, radio, newspaper,
hung in public places such as administrative quarters of communes and schools.
Public announcement tasks shall be implemented immediately after EVN and
WB's approval of project is obtained. The information announced consists of:
+ Schedule of project implementation
+ Eligibility and non-eligibility to compensation and resettlement
+ The compensation principle: only make compensation for households using
land before inventory making and the official announcement about land acquisition
of State.
8.1.2. Compensation deadlines
The project impacts conclude households with areas of residential land,
agricultural land, forestry land, etc... affected permanently or temporarily. PAPs
agreed to receive compensation amount so the RAP is carried out in package to
PAPs. Compensation payment for land, assets, paddy and crops; land delivery for
resettlement should be done at least 02 months before the project land acquisition.
PAPs will receive subsidies at the beginning of months and after their
receiving, they will have to transfer land for Site Clearance Board at least one month
before construction time.
8.2. RAP implementation process
RAP implementation will be included in 3 actions as below:
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 45



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
+ General action: Just at once when beginning the project implementation work
+ Separately action: at several times, once for each component of the project
+ Continuously action: Continuously action for the stages of RAP implementation.
Basic actions of the proiect
Action 1:
After RAP approved, PMB hires qualified agency for independent
monitoring, this agency must be approved by EVN and WS
Action 2:
Provincial authorities and PMB are required to supply Resettlement
Committees with fully costs and declare the tasks for RAP implementation.
Action 3:
District Resettlement Committees carry out the Detail Measurement Survey
of affected assets and socio-economic conditions, determining the compensation unit
price and if necessary, checking and readjusting it in order to make compensation at
market price and conversion price.
Action 4:
Immediately the ends of final inventory survey, Resettlement Committees of
Districts will inspect and define the official number of PAPs, impacted properties and
total compensation amount for PAPs.
Action 5:
Resettlement Committees will officially announce the RAP policy, schedule
of project implementation and information for RAP to PAPs at public meetings
including issues related to compensation, resettlement and land clearance.
Action 6:
It is suggested to give priority to compensation payment for households with
permanent impacts, assisting them in transferring the production mode and
mechanism or with land for resettlement and life stabilizing. After that, making
compensation payment for PAPs affected on other properties.
Action 7:
During the project implementation, Independent and Internal Monitoring
Institutions will supervise/ monitor all actions of RAP implementation, at the same
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 46



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                       Feasibility Study
time giving proposals, discussions or report the changes during project
implementation as well as suggest solutions.
8.3. RAP implementation schedule
RAP will be implemented as per the schedule established to ensure the site
clearance work and schedule on project construction.
Payment of rehabilitation and furnishing of other restoration/assistance
entitlements is made in cash.
Organizational arrangement
Power companies and all project provinces will arrange full experienced staffs
to ensure that RAP will be implemented smoothly as per the accepted schedule.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                     47



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 9
COST AND BUDGETS
9.1. Budgets
Budget for RAP implementation will be from the self-financed capital and
loans from WB. EVN entrusted Central Power Projects Management Board
(CPPMB) with management and directing project 's activities as well as project
finance management.
CPPMB has coordinated with the provinces, districts, departments of Finance
and Goods Price, Resettlement Committees at all levels to implement compensation
payment.
9.2. Determining the compensation price
Compensation price for temporary and permanent impacted cultivated land,
trees and crops based on:
- The Government Decree No 188/2004/ND-CP of November 16th, 2004 on
the stipulation of the frame for the price of land types.
- Decisions on compensation price of Provincial People's Committee,
Departments of Finance and Goods Price of Binh Dinh and Phu Yen
Provinces.
9.2.1. Compensation pricefor land
Compensation unit price of different types of land as follows:
Table 9.2.1. Compensation unit price for land (VND/m2)
No.          Item          Unit Price  Remarks
I Binh Dinh Province
1  - Forestry land             7,200
2  - Agricultural land           900
3  - Residential land        630,000
II Phu Yen Province
1  - Forestry land              600
2  - Agricultural land           900
. a                     3  - Residential land        600,000
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 48



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
9.2.2. Compensation unit pricefor trees and crops
Compensation for trees and crops on the whole ROW.
Provincial Department of Finance and Goods Price in coordination with
relevant local authorities will be responsible for offering the rational compensation
costs for project impacts.
Table 9.2.2. Compensation unit price for trees and crops
No.          Item               Unit price      Remarks
I Binh Dinh province
1 Crops                         2,000 VND/m'
2 Paddy                           900 VND/m'
3 Eucalyptus                   10,000 VND/tree
4 Fruit trees                 150,000 VND/tree
5 Cashew                      150,000 VND/tree
6 Coffee                       80,000 VND/tree
7 Sugar cane                    1,500 VND/tree
8 Forest                         2,000 VND/m'
II Phu Yen province
1 Crops                           700 VND/m'
2 Paddy                           900 VND/m'
3 Eucalyptus                   10,000 VND/tree
4 Fruit trees                 130,000 VND/tree
5 Cashew                      100,000 VND/tree
6 Forest                         2,000 VND/m2
9.3. Compensation cost estimate
9.3.1. Costfor RAP establishment
Cost for RAP establishment consists of:
- Preparation work: cost for document study, translation, preparation of
forns for socio-economic survey and PAPs 'inventory.
- Site survey work: work with local authority for detailed measurement
survey (DMS) of PAPs and collecting compensation price list.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                 49



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
-  Summarize data for establishment of report and RAP report.
-  Making Reports at Binh Dinh and Phu Yen provinces, PMB and EVN
Survey work is carried out in two stages: Preliminary stage and Detailed
Measurement Survey.
9.3.2. Compensation cost
Based on the impacted area of land and crops and extent of impacts (described
in the previous chapters), compensation costs of the project including of:
- Compensation for pernanent land acquisition for construction of tower
foundation.
- Compensation for structures, houses, paddy and crops affected inside the
safe corridor of the line route.
- Subsidy for PAPs as stipulated in law.
9.3.3. AManagement cost
Management cost consists of cost for activities of PMB and local PRCs
including: material base, salary and other allowances for administrative apparatus.
For organizational mechanism of these RCs, staffs often work concurrently during
project construction period, only several members work permanently by labor
contracts.
- Cost for meetings, announce with PAPs or their representatives.
- This total cost is temporarily calculated 1% of total compensation cost for
project impacts stated in item 9.3.2.
9.3.4. Supervision cost
- When implementing the project, PMB will sign contract with independent
supervision organizations. Total cost for supervision is temporarily
calculated as 2% of total compensation cost for project impacts and cost
for RAP establishment stated in item 9.3.1 and 9:3.2.
9.3.5. Reserved cost
Reserved cost for unpredictable problems is calculated as 10% of total
compensation cost for project impacts and cost for RAP establishment stated in item
9.3.1 and 9.3.2.
9.3.6 Total cost for RAP implementation
Total compensation cost for projects is of VND 2,869,748,235.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                   50



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 10
CONCLUSION AND PROPOSALS
10.1. Conclusion
After investigation, summing up data on damages in the ROW, consulting
opinions of the relevant local authorities and community of affected households.
Through the making of RAP, we have the following conclusions:
* Investment for work construction is necessary in order to receive energy
power from Ha Song Ba Hydropower Plant and energy power transmitted on the the
route line, meeting the requirements of energy use for the provinces Binh Dinh, Phu
Yen, and vicinities.
* As the secure corridor of route line and construction site of substation
spreading on the area of 02 provinces, at development of compensation and making
land clearance works of the project, the relevant local committees and services have
to work in combination to ensure favorable results.
* Report on determination of land surface, trees and agricultural crops being
affected by the project.
* Summing up report and calculation on damages due to the project, then
bringing up common compensation price.
* Study and submission of RAP planning for community of affected
inhabitants.
10.2. Proposals
* Detailed investigation of affected items must be carried out so as to supply
detailed c6mpensation price for each affected household.
* Deep and broad propagation of infonnation on the project by multi-media
system, etc.. .to the habitants in order to minimize the negative impact of individuals
profiting of the standpoint, investment policy of the government.
* The Project Management Committee, Resettlement Committee and
Compensation Committee have to inspect closely the execution of compensation and
land clearance works in preparation of work execution.
* Appointment of a standing team to solve in a timely way the complaints and
claims of affected households.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                51



I
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                    Feasibility Study
APPENDICES
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                     52
I



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                          Feasibility Study
ANNEX 1: ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
No      Type of loss   Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
I   Temporary         All PAPs PAPs             - Cash compensation for affected  - Trees have to be cut are regulated by Article 1-
acquisition    of have trees, with/without  trees at the replacement cost plus Item 2 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May
productive land in crops,    land           cost for cutting trees, crops  at 10th, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
ROW                other      certificate   market price. Number of crop      article in No. 54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
assets  in included   in patterns to be compensated  based  on the protection of the high voltage networks.
ROW        the inventory  on the time of temporarily acquired  - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
or   able  to  of land.                         that compensation  for trees will be at the
prove    land - No compensation for land        replacement cost and for crops at the market price.
occupancy      - Rehabilitate land after the project If PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PIIB
pror to cut- construction.                      will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
off date.
using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation at least 01 month before land
clearance. Payment to PAPs will be delivered by
PMB and Resettlement Committees (RCs).
- Affected land in ROW will be rehabilitated by
contractors after the project construction and land
could be used with the restricted purposes.
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
2   Temporary         All PAPs        -do-      - Cash compensation for affected   - Trees have to be cut are regulated by Article 1-
acquisition    of with                      fruit trees and trees at replacement Item 2 of Decree No. 118/2004/ND-CP dated May
residential   and orchards                  cost.                             10th, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
garden   land  in or trees in               - No compensation for land        article in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999
ROW       without ROW                       - Rehabilitate land after the project on the protection of the high voltage networks.
house or structures
*._  ".Tx T                                 construction.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                        53



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                        Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                   Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
in ROW                                     construction.                    - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
that compensation for trees will be at the
replacement cost. If PAP is requested for cutting
affected trees, PMB will pay money for this work.
PAP has right for using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation to PAPs at least 01 month
before land clearance. Affected land in ROW will
be rehabilitated by contractors after the project
construction
- Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
RCs
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
3   Temporary impact  All PAPs       -do-      House/ building:                  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and  have                    - PAP can opt for i) Remain their could be existed are regulated by Article 1- Item 3
garden land. Partial house/buil            houses or building in ROW  with the of Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
house/building    ding   and               conditions regulated by - Trees have 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
within ROW (area  trees/fruit              to be cut are regulated by Article 1- No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
in ROW less than  trees  in                Item 3 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND- protection of the high voltage networks.
25% of total area)  ROW                    CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
and the demolished                         the amendment of some article in house in ROW or move out of ROW.
area does not                              No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
impact to the                               1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be at the replacement cost,
remaining                                  voltage networks.Subsidy allowance without deduction for salvageable materials
house/building.                            for fireproof materials and lightning - PAPs will demolish the impacted part/ room and
Residential land                           arrestors     for  the   existing reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
and garden land                            house/building; or     ii) Cash
outside of ROW is                          compensation   for  the  directly - Full compensation for trees and fiuit trees at least
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                      54



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
sufficient for re-                          affected rooms at the replacement 01 month before land clearance. If PAP is requested
organizing (more                            cost and cost for demolishing  an for cutting affected trees, PMB will pay money for
than 60 m2 in the                           affected room.                    this work. PAP has right for using salvageable
urban area and 100                          - No compensation for land.       trees.
mmintherural                                - Rehabilitate land after the project -  Full  entitlement  to  PAPs  impacted  on
area).                                      construction by contractors.     house/building  at least 03  months before land
Tree and fruit tree               clearance.
- Compensation for affected trees  - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
and fruit trees at the replacement  RCs
cost.                            - land in ROW    could be used with restricted
Allowances:                       purposes.
- Relocating allowance of 30 kg of  - Finance available for compensation and well
rice equivalent per person per month  information disclose/ disseminate
in six months.
4   Temporary impact  All PAPs        -do-      House/ building:                  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and  have                     - PAP can opt for: i) Remain their could be existed are regulated by by Article 1- Item
or garden land.    house/buil               houses or building in ROW  with the 3 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
Impact more than   ding  and                conditions regulated by - Trees have 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
25% or less than  trees/fruit               to be cut are regulated by Article 1- No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
25% of total      trees   in                Item 3 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND- protection of the high voltage networks.
house/building     ROW                      CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding  - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
area but the                                the amendment of some article in house in ROW or move out of ROW
demolished area                             No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
will impact to the                          1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be replacement cost at the
remaining of                                voltage     networks.    Subsidy time of payment.
house/structure.                            allowance  for fireproof materials - PAPs will demolish  the impacted areas and
Land outside of                             and  lightning  arrestors for the reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
ROW is sufficient                           eNisting house/building; or ii) Cash            P
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                        55



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                        Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of      Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PA-Ps
for reorganizing (                         compensation at replacement cost - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to PAPs
more than 60 m2 in  .                      for  full  areas   of  impacted at least 01 month before land clearance. If PAP is
the urban area and                         house/building.                  requested for cutting affected trees, PMB will pay
100 m2 in the rural                        - No compensation for land.      money for  this work. PAP has right for using
area).                                     - Rehabilitate land after the project salvageable trees.
construction by contractors.     - Full compensation for impacted house   and
allowances to PAPs at least 03 months before land
Tree and fruit tree              clearance.
- Compensation for affected trees  - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMIB and
and fruit trees at the replacement  RCs
cost.RC
cllowances:                      - Cleared residential could be reused with restricted
Allowances:                      purposes.
- relocating allowance of 30 kg of  - Finance available for compensation/
rice equivalent per person per month  rehabilitation and well information disclose/
in six months.                   disseminate
5    Temporary impact AU    PAPs -do-          PAPs can    opt for one of the    - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and have                    followings:                      could be existed are regulated by Article 1- Item 3
or garden land in house/build              i) Remain their houses or building  of Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
ROW.     Full or ing     and               in ROW      with the conditions 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
partial          trees, fruit              regulated by Article 1- Item 3 of No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
house/building   trees    in               Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated protection of the high voltage networks.
impacted and land ROW                      May   10th, 2004   regarding  the - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
outside of is not                          amendment of some     article in house in ROW or move out of ROW
sufficient    for                          No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PM]B and local authorities determine and ensure
reorganizing  (less                        1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be at replacement cost at
than                                       voltage    networks.     Subsidy the time of payment.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                      56



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No      Type of loss   Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PA-Ps
60 m2 in the urban                          allowance  for fireproof materials - Replacement land,   and resettlement sites
area and 100 m2 in  4                       and  lightning  arrestors for the development.
the rural area)                             existing house/building; or ii) Cash - PAP receive
compensation   for   the  whole - PAPs receiving compensation will demolish the
residential area which PAP occupied impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
(not only for the impacted areas) and hmaced areasa  r      u/        o   t
properties associated with occupied houses themselves.
land at replacement cost. Impacted  - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
land will be obtained   by local PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
authorities; or ii) "Land for land" PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PNIB
with the same area  PAP occupied will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
and cash at replacement cost for the using salvageable trees.
affected assets associated with land. - Full compensation for land impacted house and
Land occupied by PAP will be allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
obtained by local authorities.    clearance.
- Compensation for affected trees - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
and fruit trees at the replacement RCs
cost.                             - Cleared residential could be used with restricted
Allowances:                       purposes.
.   - Relocating allowance of 30 kg of - Finance/ land  available  for compensation/
rice equivalent per person per month rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
in six months                     disseminate.
- Transportation  allowance   for - PMB   consult with PAP who are eligible to
relocating PAP according to   the rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
Compensation Decree 22/1998 CP for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
dated April 22, 1998 of GOV.      implementation.
- Rehabilitation assistance if  PAPs
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                        57



Quy NAhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
permanently losing business or more
than 25% of their incomes.
- Incentive for relocating in a timely
manner: 5,000,000 VND/HH
6   Permanent          All   PAPs -do-          For PAP losing productive land:   - Consultation  for PAP's options    on  land
acquisition of land occupied                a  Land loss less than 25% of their compensation.
for          tower land   and                  total landholdings             - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
foundations,       properties               - Cash compensation for the lost area that compensation will be at replacement cost at
substation     and associated               if   the   remaining  plot is still the time of payment.
access roads etc.  with  land               economically viable.              - Replacement land,     and resettlement sites
permanentl
y impacted                - Cash compensation for the whole development.
by  towers                impacted plot if the remaining plot - PAPs receiving compensation will demolish the
foundations               is not economically viable.       impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
, substation              - Cash compensation for properties houses themselves.
and  access               associated with land              - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
roads etc.                                                  PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
25% of their total lano oldings:  PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
lPAP   can  opt   for  the using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation for impacted house   and
i)"Land for land" with the same area allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
and productive of impacted area if clearance.
the  remaining  plots  are   still - No award civil work contract before completion
economicviable and  for the whole of   compensation and reorganizing houses or
impacted plots if  the remaining rofcaomn
plots are not economicviable.     relocation.
- Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
ii) Cash for land at the replacement RP r
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                        58



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                           Feasibility Study
No      Type of loss    Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                     Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
cost.                             RCs
- Compensation for trees and affected - Finance/ land  available  for compensation/
fruit trees at the replacement cost.  rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
- Rehabilitation assistance.      disseminate.
.  For  PAP losing Residential and - PMB  consult with PAP who are eligible to
garden land:                     rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
- If remaining  land is sufficient implementation.
for reorganizing (more than 60 m2  _ PAPs will be granted with     Land Use Right
in the urban area and 100 m2 in the     wil         an                 U
rural area): Cash compensation for Certificate
lost area and assets associated with without payment of administrative fees.
land.
- If remaining land is not sufficient
for reorganizing:
PAP can opt for i) cash compensation
at replacement cost for land and
assets on land, or ii) "land for land"
compensation    for   the   whole                   ,
residential.area which PAP occupied
(not only for the impacted areas) and
properties associated with occupied
land. For affected house and building,
the same entitlement to PAP     of
categories 3 or 4 or 5.
7   PAP   impacted  on All   PAPs -do-            (a) Temporary impact on business or - Full compensation for incomes lost to PAPs at
business  or  other impacted                  other services.                   least 0 1 month before land clearance.
services           on business                                                  - PMB   consult with PAP who are eligible to
_tirl anA  r             I Compensation for income lost in the I  .    . r     .   .
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                         59



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
N0      Type of loss     Applicati   Definition of         Compensation Policy                      Implementation Issues
on      entitled PA-Ps
and   other                 affected time                      rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
services                    (b) Permanent impact on business or for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
other services.
Rehabilitation assistance.
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                             60



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                            Feasibility Study
Annex 2:
Table of compensation quantity for Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV
transmission line
TOTAL COST FOR COMPENSATION IN BINII DINII PROVINCE
I. Compensation on land, houses, trees and crops:                   443,243,556 VND
1. Cost for improving houses in ROW:                        =          975,956 VND
2. Eucalyptus:
21.037   tree       x          10,000   VND/ tree =      210,370,000 VND
3. Cashew:
32   tree       x         150,000    VND/ tree =       4,800,000 VND
4. Forest:
19.101    m2        x           2,000    VND/m2 =        38,202,000 VND
5. Cost for LUR transfer at the position of permanent land acquisition tower: 3313.00 m2
- Forestry land:      3.048  m2 x          7,200    VND/ m2=         21,945,600 VND
- Agricultural land:      0  m2 x            900    VND/ m2 =                0 VND
- Residential land:     654  m2 x        630,000    VND/ m2 =       166,950,000 VND
Cost for compensation and
resettlement:                                                              0 VND
Cost for Compensation
II. Board:                           1%x (I)                 -        4,432,436 VND
TOTAI. COMPENSATION
MElSE                                  (I + H)             =     447,675,992 VND
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                            61



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                             Feasibility Study
TOTAL COST FOR COMPENSATION IN PHIU YEN PROVINCE
I. Compensation on land, houses, trees and crops:                   1,852,127,583  VND
1. Cost for improving houses in ROW:                       =         140,776,283  VND
VND
2. Crops:
522.686   m2       x            700     VND/ m2 =          365,880,200  VND
3. Paddy:
68.300   m2       x            900     VND/ m2 =           61,470,000  VND
4. Eucalyptus:
31.664  tree      x         10,000    VND/tree=           316,640,000  VND
5. Fruit trees:
648  tree      x         130,000    VND/ tree =          84,240,000  VND
6. Cashew:
1.006  tree     x         100,000    VND/ tree =         100,600,000  VND
7. Forest:
188.362   m2       x          2,000     VND/ m2 =          376,724,000  VND
8. Cost for LUS transfer at the position of permanent land acquisition tower: 18449.00 m2
-Forestry land:      8.728 m2 x            600     VND/m2 =             5,236,800  VND
-Agricultural land:  9.067 rn2 x           900     VND/m2 =             8,160,300  VND
- Residential land:    654 rn2 x       600.000     VND/ m2 =          392,400,000  VND
Cost for Compensation
II. Board:                         1%x (I)                             18,521,276  VND
TOTAIL COST FOR
COMPE.NSATION*                       (I +  )             =       1,870.648,859  VND
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                             62



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
Total cost for RAP implementation of
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line
No.              Item                 Amount (VND)        Remarks
Compensation cost for Binh Dinh
1  rovince                                443,243,556
Compensation cost for Phu Yen
2   rovince                              1,852,127,583
3 Total compensation cost                2,295,371,139
4 Cost for RAP establishment               246,409,686
Total cost for compensation and
5 RAP establishment                      2,541,780,825
6 Management cost                           22,953,711
7 Supervision cost                          50,835,616
8 Reserved cost                            254,178,082
9 Total cost for RAP implementation      2,869,748,235 
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                63



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                                    Feasibility Study
Annex 3: Inventory of Project Affected People
Name of Head of  No. of                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Loss of  Temporary
Name of_Head of    No. of                                                Loss of Assets                      Loss of Crops        Other          Other Losses          Losses
Ho-uLsehold      persons    Tofti    Land to be Loss  Number and   Structures  Structures  Area of  Fruit trees              assets Eg.,                           (specify)
No.                                  Of Bholding           a%     type of lost  permanent  temporary  residential  lost Type Paddy  Other  Tombs,  Residence Business Income
in        Of Hhold ~~ol~  in mT  by  of  structures  (M2)      (MN)       land lost    and    area  (Specify)  well, etc.  (rented)  Lost  Loss
M2        Type     total                                       (2)      Number   (M2)           (No. &type
Group No11 - Tran Quang Dieu    QU~Y Nncity - Binhi Dinh Province                                                                                                            Reniar____________s___
TIhese   1 4
1-     Hunh Thi By               4        43,86        36    82                                                                                                              households
2      NguyenAn Liem             4        43,86        36    82                                                 _                                  _   _                     are     still
3      Nguyen Van ThAo            1       43,86        36    82                                                                                    _ _  _                    allowed to be
4      Dao Thi La Hang            4       43,86        36    82                                                  _                      1 _                                  stayed so not
5      Doan ThAnh Trung          3        43,86        36    82                                                            = ______make
6      Nguygn Van TA             3        43,86        36    82                                                                                                              compensation
7      Le Dinh Cang               4       43,86        36    82                                                                                                              by     house
level    IV
8      Nguyen Van Dong            5       43,86        36    82                                                            = _  _  _                                         (only  wood
9      Phan Thi                  4         80,5        42    52                                     _                                    _                                   house   with
10     Ho   ic Thang             4         66,1        35    53  _                        _          _                                                                       tile roof)
11     HuSnh Thic Sinh           3        43,86        36    82                                                                                   |,
12     Nguyen Thi Nga            5         43,8        36    82   _                       _          _
13     MaiThamhQuin              4        43,86        36    82 |                                                                                 I        I         L
14     NguyenQuyetTien           3        43,86        36    821                                                           =                      T        I        I
Bui Thi Xuan Ward -Quy Nhon City - Binh Dinh Province
15     BaNg6              |   _    |         1 6       16   100 T Goat-house |          I           I          I         T     I        I         T_I            _T
16     LamVanOuy Q_                |         24         0     0   Warehouse |
17     Lam Tli Ly           _   __           16         0     0 |   Pigsty
Xuan Loc Commune - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
18   | N  yanV6 Hoang            3           24        24 | 100     House    |
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                  ~4 t65



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                              Feasibility Study
19    Ngo Tin Luc              6           12       12   100    House                                               =                        =        =      =
House
20    Vo VanEhoa                4          72        0     0    Howe_  __              _ __  __                            _ _ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ ___           _    _ _ _ _ _
21    Nguyen CA                 8         120        0     0    louse
22    Dug VanThe                7                    0     0      Iouse                                      =       ==              _       =        =      =
23    Nguyen Cong Khanh         8         120        0     0     House
24    NguyenVanCon              3          79       70    88     House                                      =       =       =                 =       =
25     Pam Van Dang             5                    16    0     Pigsty
26    Nguy&e Va-n Phat                              60          cowshed
Xuan Phuong Commune - Song Ca District - Phu Yen Province  _
27    Nguy&eVanThing            4          68       68   100    Kitchen,
_ _ _ __ _ _ Cowshed
28    Vo Vn Chinh               4          24       24   100     House
29     Ong Tien                            24       24   100  Uninhabited
house
So  Cau Town - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
30   | Pham IA Le.                 _          |     40 |        cowshed
31   | Le Thi Mui            _                |     24 | _      cowshed24
Xuan Tho I Cormnune^ - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
32   |N Nguyn Giao _       I                  |     40 |_|      cowshed  |           _          _          _              _       _         _       _
An Dan Commune- Tuy An District- Phi Yen Province  _
33    NguyenC6ngThAnh    |                          24 |     |  cowshed  |          |                                                                          __|
34    Ho Lieu              _20 _|                    O |     |cowshed
35    Do Thi D*c                1          36       36   100     House
36    TrAnLong                  5          40        0     0     House   I          I         I                                                                       _T T  _I 
37    Truang VanThuky           3          56       36    72 |
Cowshed
38     DoVan To                 4          45       45   100 adtchen,
Cowshed
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                                66



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                                Feasibility Study
Chi Thanh Town - Tuy An District- Phu Yen Province
39     Phan Vn Cur              4           76       28    37    Kitchen,
Cowshed
40     Phan Dinh Trung          6           98       50   51     Kitchen,
Cowshed
41     Ong Dung                             36       36   100  Uninhabited
house
An Dinh Comnae - Tuy An Dish ct- Phu Yen Province
42     Phan Thanh D3ng          3           60        0     0                                                         _
43     Phan Thoai               3           65       25    38    Kitchen   _                                   =      -      =
44     Phan Sin                 2           42       12    29     Wall
45     Phan Vin HoAng           3           45       15    33
46     Le ThiNgh1a              3           52       52   100     Wall,
kitchen
cowshed
47     Phan Thinh Long          5           76       76   100    House,
cowshed,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                               ~~~~~~~~~~                                                   ~~~~~kitchen_ _
48     NguyenVaaLu        I                132       132_ 100    cowshed   _                                          =             .        |       |
An Hi Com=me- Tuy An Distrit- Phu Yen Province
49     Nguyen Hoc                            9        9   100    cowshed  |
50     Hu| I ihVanTim      ____12                    12   100 |    hut___.                                                                                             ____ ___
51     VoThiThu                 4           71       36    51    House,
cowshed,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   ~~~kitchen_ _ __                          _ _    _  _ __               __            _  _  _
52     LeThiHoi                 5           49.      25    51    Ktchen,
house
53     Chiu Thi Sum        ___              48        0 |   0 |  Kitchen  |            _         _          _              _                 _       i
Hoa Kien Coommune- Tuy Hoa Town- Phu Yen Province
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                                 67



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                                              Feasibility Study
54    Cao Kim Thlnh            4          94        0     0  hv    class
house
55    Dao Van Hfing            6          20         0    0  TV    class
_ _ _ house                                                                                     _ _ _
56    Nguy nHIu Huan           6          117        0    0  IV    class
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h ou se   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __                                 _ _ _ _ _
IV    clas
57  B| Thi Khoa                6          96         0    0  house
Hoa Quag Bac Commune - Phu Hoa District- Phu Yen Province
IV    classT                                                                               I
58    Nguyen TiPhuang                     64         0    0 |                                                                                            I|u
59    V6Thilihng                          78         0    0 |      class
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                              68



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                             Feasibility Study
Annex 4: Entitlements of Project Affected People
Compensation for Other Assets
Survey      Name of Head of         Compensation for Land         Compensation for Structures     Compensation for Crops & Trees           (Noi dAt)          - ts
SNurvey     Name of Head of                1ntUi                                                                                                                Total in Dong
No.           Household                   Unit                        *1Unit
Quantity   Price  Entitlement in  Quantity  Unit Pnce  Entitlement in  Quantity  Unit Pnce in  Entitlement in  Quantity  Price in Entitlement in
Sq. Meters  Sq.       Dong     Sq. Meters   Sq.        Dong        Unft      Dong        Dong        Unit     Dong      Dong
J M eters  ] _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ 1 M eters   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Group No.11- Tran Quang Dieu Ward- Quy Nhon City- Binh Dinh Province
I       Huynh Thi Bay                                               36         0            0                                                                             0
2       Nguy&n An Liem                                              36         0            0                                                                             0
3       Nguyen Van ThAo                                             36         0            0                                                                             0
4       Dao Thi Le Hang                                             36         0            0                                                                             0 O
5       Doan Thanh Trung                                            36         0            0                                                                             0
6       Nguyen Van TA                                               36         0            0                                                                             0
7       L8 Dinh Cang                                                36         0            0                                                                             0
8                                                                   36         0            0                                                                             0
8   Nguygn V-an Dilng                                           3 
9       Phan Thi                                                    42         0            0                                                                             0
10      Ho Di(c Thang                                               35         0            0                                                                             0
__      Huynh Thic Sinh                                             36         0            0                                                                             0
12      Nguyen Thi Nga                                              36         0            0                                                                             0
13      MaiThanhQuan                                                36         0            0                                                                             0
F14      N~~Q~Ti                                                     36         0            00
P Nguy& Quyet m en     an    r                                                       O6
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                              69



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                    Feasibility Study
Bui Thi Xuan Ward- Quy Nhon City- Binh Dinh Price =  =
15     BaNg6                                                 12   57.680     692.157                                                   141.900     834.057
16     Lm VnQuy Qq                                           24        O           0                                                                     0
17     LIm Thi L1                                            12        0           0                                                   141.900     141.900
Xuan Loc Comnmune - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
18     Nguyen V5 Hong                                        24  446.080   10.705.920                                                            10.705.920
19     Ng8TanLuc                                             12  446.080    5.352.960                                                            5.352.960
20     V5 Van Khoa                                           72        0           0                                                                     0
21     Nguyen Ca                                            120        0           0                                                           |         0
22     D#ngVanTh8                                            66        0           0                                                    141.900    141.900
23     Nguyen Cdng Ksbanh                                   120        0           0                                                                     0
24     Nguy& Vin Con                                         70   492.160  34.451.200                                                            34.451.200
25     Pham VanDang                                          16   70.147    1.122.351                                                             1.122.351
26     Nguyen Van Phat                                       60             3.921.273                                                             3.921.273
Xuan Phuong Commune - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
27     Nguyn Van ThAng                                       32  460.800   14.274.560 |       _          _          _         __    | 7.781.917  22.056.477
28     VoVanChinh         1 _        _  _                    24             3.914.617 |       _          _          _        1      |   141.900   4.056.517
29     OngTi&i             I _       _       _               24             4.260.457 |        _         _           _        1     |   141.900   4.402.357
Song Cau Town - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province  _  _        _        _          _                  _           _         _
30    |PhamL.              I      _      _   _               24    57.680_| 1.384.313 |       _          _           _        I     |   141.900   1.526.213
31    |LB ThiMirbi                                           24 M|___J__ [ 2.969.913 |                  1 _          _        1     |          | 2.969.913
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                    70



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                                      Feasibility Study
Xuan Tho 1 Commune - Song Cau District - Phu Yen Province
32     Nguyn Giao                                            40             3.099.515                                                            3.099.515
An Dan Commune- Tuy An District - Phu Yen Province
33     Nguy&i C8ng Thinh                                      18   57.680   1.038.235                                                             1.038.235
34     HoLigu                                                20             2.119.197                                                            2.119.197
35     Do Thi Duc                                            36        0           0                                                   283.800     283.800
36     Tran Long                                             64        0           0                                                                     0
37     Truang Van Thuy                                       20             4.201.290                                                   975.957   5.177.247
38     Dao Vui T                                              15  103.744   1.156.155                                                             1.156.155
Chi Thanh Town- Tuy An District - Phu Yen Province
39     Phan VaC Cir                                          12    57.680     692.157                                                   283.800    975.957
40     Phan Dinh Trng                                        30             4.550.343                                                   975.957   5.526.300
41     (3ngDung                =       =                      12   57.680     692.157                                                   141.900    834.057
An Dinh Commune- Tuy An District - Phu Yen Province
42     Phan Thanh Dong                                       60        0           0                                                                     0
43     PhanThoi                                              65     -0             0                                                                     0
44     PhanSin                                                121           3.148.711                                                             3.148.711
45     Phan Vgn Hohng                                         1 5  353.920  5.308.800                                                             5.308.800
46     L6ThjNghia                                             25            3.659.315                                                 2.539.818   6.199.133
47     Phan ThAnh Long                                        16            1.960.637                                                   283.800   2.244.437
48     NguyenVanLuu                                           36   57.680   2.076.470                                                   283.800   2.360.270
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                     71



I~~~~~ 
Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                       Feasibility Study
An Eep C   e  Tuy An Distdrict - Phu Yen Province 
49      Nguygn HQc                                              9             1.643.517                                                               1.643.517
50      Huinh Van 'am                                          12  223.479    2.681.752                                                              2.681.752
51      Vo Th Thu                                              36 0                 0                                                     283.800     283.800
52      L Th Hoa                                               25             5.446.429                                                              5.446.429
53      Chau Thi Sum                                           48        0            0                                                                      0
Hoa Kien Commune- Tuy Hoa Town - Phu Yen Province_
54      CaoKimThinh                                            94        0            0                                                                      0
55      DaoVAnHibng                                            20        0            0
56      Nguy&n Hfru Huan                                      117        0            0                                                                      0
57      BeziTAiKhoa                                            96        0            0                                                                      0
HoaQa Bac Comnune Phu Hoa District - Phu Yen Province
58      NguyLnThiPhuang                                        64        0 |          0 |                  J _          _         _      _   _  _            0
59      V5Th,Thing                                             78        0            ol                _ j         _        ._     _           _            0 
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                       72



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                       Feasibility Study
Annex 5: Socio-Economic Household Data Sheet of Project Affected People
Occupation and                Estimated Total
Address of          Name of Household Member                                                  Sources of    Employment     Income per
No. Household                                            Sex    Age    Ethnic Group  Education      Income                         Year
N r.oup                                                               Kinh         High        State officer                      8.700.000
No.l11-     Hu'mh Thi Bay                                                     school
2    Dieu Ward-                                                        Kin         Secondary    State officer                    10.000.000
QuyNhon     Nguyen An Linm                                                    school
3    Cainh                                                             Kinh        Secondary    State officer                     6.000.000
Dinh        Nguyen Van Thao                                                   school
4                                                                      Kinh        High         State officer                    12.000.000
DAo Thi Le Hang                                                    school
5                                                                     Kinh         High         State officer                     8.400.000
Doan Thanh Trung                                                  school
6                                                                      Kinh        High         State officer                    12.000.000
Nguyen Van Ta                                                      school
7                                                                      Kinh        High         State officer                    12.000.000
Le Dinh Cang                                                       school
8                                                                      Kinh        Secondary    State officer                    13.200.000
NguynVn Dung                                                       school
9                                                                      Kinh        University,  State officer                    24.000.000
Phan Thi                                                           college                             .
10                                                                    Kinh         Unversity,   State officer                    24.000.000
Ho Dhrc Thang              .                                       college.
11                                                                    Kinh         Secondary    State officer                    12.000.000
Huynh Thuic Sinh                                                  school
12                                                                    Kinh         Secondary    State officer                    10.000.000
Nguyen Thi Nga                                                     school
13                                                                    Kinh         Secondary    State officer                     9.600.000
Mai Thanh QuAn                                                     school
14                                                                    Kinh         Secondaiy    State officer                    12.000.000
15 _______  Nguyen Quyet Tien                                                  school
Bui    Thi Bi Ng6
16 Xuaa Ward-
(-'IV Nhon  LAm Via Qu_
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                        73



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                       Feasibility Study
17   QuY3  Nh-    mTh L
City - Bnmh  Lam Thi Ly
Dinh
Province                                                          _   _    _  _    _   _   _   _   _    _  _    _   _
18              Nguy& V6 Hoang                                        Kin          Secondary   Agriculture                        8.000.000
school
19              NTaL                                                  Kinh         Secondary   Agriculture                       13.500.000
__ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _sch            o o l_                      _ _ _ _ _ _
20              V5 Van Khoa                                           Kinh         Secondary   Agriculture                       10.800.000
school
21              Nguyen Ca                                             Kinh         Secondary   Agriculture                       28.800.000
_______         ~~school
22              DangVanTh8                                                         Secondary   Agriculture                       15.000.000
Ding Vin M8                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~school
23              Nguy&n Cong Kanh                                      Kinh         High        Agriculture                       18.900.000
school
24              Nguy Va Con                                           Kin          Secondaiy   Agriculture                        7.200.000
school
25              Ph#m Va DaL                                           Kinh                     Agriculture                       30.000.000
26              NguyeVaa Phit                                         Kinh                     Agriculture
27XuanNn\- 1~n                                                        Kinh        High         Agricultuire                      10.000.000
27  Phuong  Nguyesn Van Thang                                                 school
28   Song Caa   Vo Vm    hKink                                                     High        Agriculture                        6.000.000
Diict-Pha      . Phuschool
29   Yen                                                              Khng Ti8n  Ki            Agriculture
Province                                                         __  _ __ _
30   Song Caa                                                         Kinh
Towyn- song  PhozIi Le                             __
31   Cau District  LZ Thi Muri                                        Kinh
- Phua Yen
Province
Xa    Xuan  NguyGAo                                              KinG
Thg     I-
H,uy,n Song
Clu - Tnh
33   An    Dan  Nguy&n CBng Thinh                                     Kink
34   Commune-                                                         Kinh
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                        74



Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kVtransmission line                                          Feasibility Study
35   TDY An-                                                           Kinh                                                         7.000.000
District   -  D6TjD"                                                                                            _____
36   Phu    YeVn on                                                   Kinh         Secondary    Agnculture                        15.000.000
Province                                                                       school       Agnciiliiire                      10.000.000
37               Trong V9n Thus                                        Kinh         Secondary    Agnculture                        10.000.000
38   TC6rDislraic-Dio VPhn   K8 Kinh                                               Heigh        Agncultiure                       10.000.000
81                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~school
39   Ch    Thn    hnV- i                                               Kink         Secondary    Agriculture                       15.000.000
Town - Tuy                                                _   __school
40   An District-                                                      Kink         In-service   Agriculture                       20.000.000
Phu    Yen  Phan Dinh Trung                                                    Wain.
41   ProViice    <3ng Ding                                             Kinh                      Agriculture
42   An    Deinnh Wm                                                   Kinh                      Agricultiure                       1.500.000
Provmnce  han Tanh Hoang
4    T       A    e Thoui N                                            Kinh                      Agriculture                        1.500.000
44   District- Phu  PhnSnKink                                                                    Agriculture
45   ron                                                                Kinh        High         Agrculture                         1.000.000
Province  Phan Tnh Hocng                                            school
46               Ny Th    Lw                                           Kinh         High         Agiculture                         1.000.000
school
47               Phan Thnh Long                                         Kink        High         Agricultuire                       1.000.000
____ _  __ ____ ___ school
48               Nzuv_n Va-n Luu                                        Kink                     Agriculture
49   An    Hiep  Nguyen Hgc                                             Kinh                     Agriculture
50   Co=mune -                                                          Kinh                     Agriculture
District Thy  HShV- i
51     n - Phuy V5T     n Thum                                          Kinh        Secondao y   Agriculture                       10.000.000
yen ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~____school
52   Province                                                           Kinh                     Agriculture
53   Chiu  Sum                     =      =__ Kinh                       Agriculture
54                                                                      Kinh        High         Agriculture                       12.000.000
Hoa   Kien  Cao Kim 'Thhnh                                                     school__         _   _  _  _  _ _  _  _ __    _ _  _  _  _
Cominune-      -sho
55   Thy    Hoa  Dao Van Hfig                                           Kinh        Secondary    Agriculture                       30.000.000
Towvn -Phu                                                                     school______
56   Yen                  H                                             Kink        Universit,   Agriculture                       34.000.000
_Province   Nguyen EIih Huan                          .                        college _t__
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                         75



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
Quy Nkhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line                                        Feasibility Study
57               Bfii Thfi Khoa                                         Kinh        sHcigh       AgIiculture                       13.000.000
_________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~school
58   Hoa Quag    Nguyen TlNi Phuang                                     Kinh        Secondary    Agriculture                       14.000.000
Bac                                                                            school
59   Coummue-    V   Thi lbng                                           Kinh        Secondary    Agriculture                       17.000.000
Phu    Hoa                                                                     school
Distict  -
Phu    Yen
Province
Plan on compensation and resettlement                                                         76



CQNG IIOA XA HQ1 CIIU NGH1IA VlJiT NAM
DQc Iflip'- Tu (lo - HaInhI pl)hIc
-oOo-
,tf. .a  . 4, C., nga, 2g. th(ing. .f . n 200 200f
BlitN BAN TJ-IAM VAN CQNG D(5NG
VE J<fe,IIOACI1 DEI N BIO VA TAi DINI-I CU'
Til;'lil pliAlit llhaml du:  
1. Dai dieni UBND :.Jc-%J .(J.... 1Q.-0l. {8( ....C..x.{ .. qW .. TLCc&< At
2. Nlhirng nguiii lnh1t lig : .............................. Nain ... . ..... N Ur.. 
3. Dai dhiC Cty TVXI) Dieii 4: ...         .r..........    .      .     .
A                                         T.A 
Cfic va  de tl i.ai vaol cQig dong:
A  iAl  Ii
1. Plio bien nlbiiIg cl 'IC,,l such li'i quan dn diku1 bf', tai difll cu.
- Nliiuig kilu vurc tltrnig dkinig dat clio dkr aiti.
-  Itr kiel tlHri gian lien hanhii clho dkr an.
-  I'llo bieii cac chliiih saclh c,,a Vie.t Naii vua WB.
-  Cac quy dlljnlh 1 ph6p) luat ViEt Narn va clijoli saIclh WB co lien quail.
-  Caic clinilVsacl den bu clho Dtr an.
-  Cac klnu tai dili cur (iieu cO).
2. Y   eici cuia dil juluieuug y e  aliacl dnen biu vi thii dljlui cir:
- Kh d it aidg xty ia dnth h liraoirg bat 44i cria dir dI,I
D-O i v6ii uiii cfra:. .  '              .2l.  c..ll   ..            . ....
+\?DOi  VOl d2  dai:..'.;O.r .....  .... ..f ...       ......................... ...............
........................................................ i.... .......................... . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
j<. v... . . -. .. .. .... . . . . . ..... . .. . .. . ...........lt,...(.......  .......4D tgiC z } }   PT , .   ...... ..  ..........
D ;oi voi cay c6i:.! ...-        .... A1 t       ,.
...........................................................................................................  .........................
.........................................................................................................I...........................
D- Di. v6i m116i rluf'llg ir lllielC, x.l I joi ....I JL;... (J.   c.
* - C(ic4w~~ie^li phtfi'i gialml thiel{[:
l        -4l                                                                                . 



C~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 'lYonig giai dlo~i-n tliiet kc0.^                                                              .j     CL...i2          ~      q
*   U Z7 ...                                                                             ....................................
II,
-I- 'I'r ong giai dloaii (hIieke. .C..!l u..A                                               {. ge..;(. cOng:..g.                                    ..      .
..................................................... ..I.......................................................  ..............................................
J- i'ronig       giai doam          i     COn llgh: .........................................................................................
....................................................................................... ................................................... 
...I.r.ong       giai...........................         ........................................................................................
.................................................................. ( I 4............................
.........................................................................................................................I.............
   G;ia    deln    bu;, hinhl thilc           deii             .                   .    ............................. . ' ..Q . ....
...............................................          ......I   .............................................................................
-    IQlyi        gian kih  rc   haien cg     i sra ...        b..  :............................................................................
~~  Quy cile kieu naii giami sal::
......................................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................... I....................................................................................................... 
Xfic nilnl eia dai diei                                                                          Mc iiliiii ciua ngguoi sand                       lu6iig
Cong ty Tu vaii Xay dunig Die.ii 4
I/Wl
xflic- 11b-.                             q -yei dia p i-r



CQNG HioA XA 1191 CIIU NGI-IIA VWET NAM
Wc Ia'. p- Tuy (1o - Ilanhi plIiic
----- ---- 00-----------   .t1aa..X11lz     00P
...YI L.        ng~iy -tih (Mug ...  ndmdi 200.1/-,
1UIFEN BAN TJIAM VAN CQNG DOING
Vk Kft 1-1OACI-I Di N BU VA TAI DjNH CU
Thii'inl phiaii thiamil (u1:
1. Dai divin UBND :..O';s'i;.. i         .- ,                                                  >e&.
2. Nhltrng ngtrfi mlh ilhr&ing: .(L.S........             Nani ..    .   ;    Nrr
3. DE)i di8n Cty TVXD Dieni 4: .............................7...&.
CAc valll (le tlianii van cunlg ilulig:
1. Ph( Mtnl Itlilii-lig Ciiiiii sicii li'eii quand.li dACe (ii bil, tati dililb Cll-.
-   Nlirng kliu vkrc trung   hutig dcat cho dir in.
- Dur kie.n tlii gian tie&ii IiAnh clho dtr in.
-   Pho^ bi8n cAc chfiln sAch cua Viet Naim vA WB.
-   Cac quy diilih phAp   uhit Viet Naim vA chinlh s6ch WB c6 Ii8n quaii.
-   Cic chinhfslAch dcn bCi clio Dtr aln.
-   CAc kI1U tai djili cu (nieu c6).
2. Y kie"n efia din a pihtuolig VAe Ie lioacli den bii vA tai diiin cur:
-      nim naug xay ra dihtlh /ul'OIg bit lyi clia dli' dii
+   lD 'i v6yi jili'a  c;ra: .... :(~.... .... :...... A,e  ......e OiLk .. ...  I.  g....{m. t1  v .. A-
..... . . . . ... ,                                           ................... .  .
................................................................ ......................................................................
+ Doi v&i dat dai: .....   ...... Qi, ...... ..  .'.  . A,.
....................................................................... ":............................................. . .. . . .. . .
..............................................................................................................I........................
+ DE)i v6i caiy coi: . ............'  . I^t.  ;..... L       1 ;..'.2  ...av
....................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
-D- D)oi vci m6i rt1rrnig lt nhi8in, xa Ft.ii: ........ T.4.&
- Cdc Wim'I ph(il) gidin: 1tie'II:
11111  11111_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
+ Trong giai doaf] tiliei                    ke&  : ......                                         .... F.L                                      ....... .
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
1- Trong        giai doai          liii cOng:.........................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
................................................................................. .              .....  . .  . . ..  . . .  . .. .  . . .  .. . .  . .
+    rrong      giai dooani        van    liciIi:.........................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
- Cdc ph,tI         o'tg on digit bit, quty irlith c/ti ird deln bit:
+   Gia     den     biT,, hinh       (li[rc d<el       bfi: ....Pe       .      ......                           ......      ...... en.A-... tt .....
............. I.........................................................................................................................
+   l  li'i gian       thlrc    WiPMn     chi til     dlel     bit: .............                                                    ...         .........,
...,2:...th............................. I......................................................................................
........................................................................................I.............................................
1- Quy       clhe   kie^u     niai giimn       sal:........................................................................................
"~~~~~~~.                 .  . . .  . .  .............................                            ........................ .....................       .. ..  .. .. ..  .. ..  ..
......................................................................................................................................
Xac nil'aii cuia dai d                    jie.nC 11ac                                                 Ilil       l ca nguo&i Anil hilol-6g1
Cong ty Tt vain Xay dulig DiCii 4
C>-
C-
g~o



:n1diyj mlY)~ d4)iJd mj?1'I !)J -
1 7 .       1I       1 
......................................................................................................................................
Z ................. I.............  .......  .......................................................................... ................... ,. jr
*.*741?-7.              7-:P0P 41333 !MA !,C1 -
.............. ...................... .............I............................... ....................................................
.. . ......................................................... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
......              .      .   ....      ...                          ...............  ~  .......... -  --l. .   . . .. r:113.n  !P T !QA 10( +
.......................................................................................................................................
....~ ~~~~. ip                                                     Ltt LOA lo
up .hp inp 0.1 ~pqgai~n~qm     p alii  fpx,ux  ii'p')j-
ljlllp!t-,)V.A iqtial^) q3*01 O'll 3A1, 2110.1( 1-}V Ji f)v 1-11vl "')"I A-Z
:.i13 qutip !1,' I'A lIys "a?~  tlet aj aA St.o.ltiq1:> t'4!) '1!w Z~IA.
-(go nall).110 Itill?l IL] ''1p1 -),'D 
*tlB, i lCl(o'  nq   tiop  I!1s Ilulilp v, -
wnlb tLiil 9o3 fIPA 113yS IlUIljO LA tlueN 161A Alnl ciVtIcI tjlull Xnbu o,   -
*fJp 1iA 1H13N 1t!A 'nP 1PV,E t11lt143,B tl'P ! H wOt9   -
*       *tBU, ilp 01j3 1tIlEt1 upTl UB2T TL.tp} 1w3P1 'i  -
'tie Alp ot4o Wi) SH1p  unl.lq 3AA Illp &I.1l1N  -
*.na) tgtl,p  qIy ilq uiap iiap  munb llail qlaus tItiila 2unq  tt. iilqla   oldc 't
:2tlQp 21163 tIUA ItUIq ?lap IUVA 31c
......................................... \.. >g% <: laGax. 1 3! c 
,M~~~~yjy7 ~~~~~:v 111j C1XAI, XID "16P PkI           '
..............IlN---             - --7-   - ......  ........  ............ -:2u.0jll lit{sE   !Q lBtl 2tl.11tlq  -Z
............................q                                            !      
. ~ ~   4*~~~Jitfr') ~~~~~j7V~~~1//A1~~ ....      U....:NiIfl IrM       11c. 
:.np iuuqj 1piu(ld ilinll
.n lD HNia lylj VA flit Ntl(J l    C-13VOI I 3X   IA
ONQOG fN()D NYA WVIlVL NyU NL31H
-ooz  -000 -------7
3N11V(4 1  1111-N  - i1) I6I  -  (1 you 1N6
WVN.LtIIA VII-I:9N MU 1611 b- vx VOI- ONOO3



-I.~~~~~~~~
Sllo..lilud uip        p aXiqb quip  U ba tiqpju   upX :lI      -
* p  Sll(t S1!.hp SUX  !IA!1 X1IO   21103
211.0*1111 i0ll  BLI93 PPBIg1 U                               lflO l) ]II3 Ulla 116111O1 +
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
...................................................................................................................................... 
...................... ..........................  .------------------I--..................................................... ....... .............. ................. -' 
tZ)  S  ss  M>7t7  nt;  rml     :n~~~~~~~~~~~~~W q tla  s.l  Y,l u'1l? uOuitl qtpeO  Xn6. +
......................... .................................................................. ................................................................................... 
;                          vs aga jWS      lstS nL     S                          IX
;  f          2  ----v-7---w7          - :n1q liop  !ttlo titx I witiq l? 11,Iw + 
......................................................  ............................................................................ 
..................................................................................... ........................ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....l ---- 'jtl -i                            ' -  -- '- 0'-*'  IVDSiq tlop SeSwt,)I + 
..................................................................,;.., . .   . ^ . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
........................................................IEL  ft~-    I O !'V  2 1 .j  
,... ............   .....                                                      t 2   (01 ,+



...:]IFL. ikkJI.S1 ,LNes lKiJiwSt. i .oc_ _-
..
I



