SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
SO990012O
RP287
Project No.: 14 - 02   VOL. 4
TUY HOA - NHA TRANG 220kV TRANSMISSION LINE
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
Khanh Hoa Province - 2005



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
ISO 900 2
PROJECT: 14 - 02
TUY HOA - NHA TRANG 220kV TRANSMISSION LINE
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
Head of Department : Nguyen Kim Dong
Head of Project Design: Le Hoang Thuong -
Khanh Hoa Province,  2005
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF
POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
DEN HUU TAP
DEPUTY DIRECTOR  |



Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
The staffs participating in RAP establishment including of:
No.        Full name             Content prepared           Signature
In charge of presiding RAP
1    Tran Van Luyen        en
establishment i
2    Mai Thi Hop           Establishing RAP
Resettlement Action Plan



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
CONTENTS
ABREVIATION                                                            4
SUMMARY                                                               5
1. Policy framework                                                5
2. Project impacts                                                 5
3. Resetlement policy                                              6
4. Public consultation                                             6
5. Grievance                                                       7
6. Management organization                                         7
7. Implemetation schedule                                          7
8. Cost estimate                                                   8
9. Information dissemination                                       8
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL INTRODUCTION                                       9
1.1 The basis of the report                                           9
1.2 Objectives                                                        9
1.3 Validity of RAP implementation                                    10
1.4 Description of the project                                        10
1.4.1 Characteristic of the project                                   10
1.4.2 Project impacts                                                 13
1.5 Project impacts minimizing measures                               13
1.6 Implementation cost estimate                                      14
CHAPTER    2: IMPLEMENTATION        ORGANIZATION AND        LEGAL     15
FRAMEWORK FOR COMPENSA TIONAND RESETTLEMENT
2. 1. Institutional arrangements                                      15
2.2. Organizational'responsibility                                    15
2.3. Staffing organization and responsibilities                       20
2.4 Legal framework                                                   21
CHAPTER 3: ENTITLEMENT POLICY                                         26
Resettlement Action Plan                                               1



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
3.1 Definition of PAP and limitation to eligibility                  26
3.2 Resettlement and compensation principles                         26
3.3 Eligibility to get compensation entitlements                     27
3.4 Entilement policy                                                28
3.5 Inpacted categories                                              31
CHAPTER 4: SOCIO-ECONOMIC SITUATION OFPROJECTAREA                    33
AND THE PROJECT IMPACTS
4.1 Survey work, inventory of project impacts                        33
4.2 The socio-economic condition of project area                     33
4.2.1 Phu Yen Province                                               33
4.2.2 Khanh Hoa Province                                             34
4.3 Project impacts                                                  34
CHAPTER 5: PULICPARTICIPATIONAND CONSULTATION                        36
5.1 Objectives of information campaign and consultation program      36
5.2 Consultation and inform to people                                36
5.3 Information dissemination and PAPs'consultation                  37
CHAPTER 6. COMPLAINTSAND GRIEVANCE                                   40
CHAPTER 7: SUPERVISIONAND MONITORING                                 42
7.1 Internal supervision                                             42
7.2 Independent supervision                                          42
CHAPTER       8:   IMPLEMENTATION          ORGANIZATION       FOR    44
COMPENSA TIONAND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
8.1 Measures for the project implementation                          44
8.1.1 Announcement to PAPs                                           44
8.1.2 Compensation and Resettlement deadlines                        44
8.2 RAP implementation process                                       44
8.3 RAP implementation schedule                                      46
Resettlement Action Plan                                              2



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                      Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 9: COSTS AND BUDGET                                             47
9.1 Budget                                                              47
9.2 Compensation price determination                                    47
9.2.1 Land                                                              47
9.2.2 Impacted trees and crops                                          47
9.3 Compensation cost estimate                                          48
9.3.1 Cost for RAP establishment                                        48
9.3.2 Compensation cost                                                 49
9.3.3 Management cost                                                   49
9.3.4 Supervision cost                                                  49
9.3.5 Reserved cost                                                     49
9.3.6 Total compensation cost for project                               49
CHAPTER 10: CONCLUSIONAND PROPOSALS                                     50
10.1 Conclusion                                                         50
10.1 Proposals                                                          50
APPENDICES                                                              51
Appendix 1: Entitlement Matrix                                         52
Appendix 2: Table of compensation quantity for Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV T/L  59
Appendix 3: Inventory of Project Affected People                       62
Appendix 4: Entitlements of Project Affected People                    75
Appendix 5: Socio-Economic Household Data Sheet of Project Affected People  87
Appendix 6: Minutes of public consultation                             96
Resettlement Action Plan                                                3



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
ABREVIATION
- RAP             Resettlement Plan
- PAPs            Project Affected Persons
- WB              World Bank
- PC              People's Committee
- EVN             Electricity of Vietnam
- LC              Land Clearance
- PMB             Project Management Board
- PECC4           Power Engineering Consulting Company 4
- ER              Environmental Resource
-GC               General Company
- VND             Viet Nam Dong
- SC              Safe Corridor
- ROW             Right-Of-Way
- CPPMB           Central Power Projects Management Board
Resettlement Action Plan                                              4



l
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                Feasibility Study
SUMMARY
Pursuant to the Government policy, the power energy develops in advance of
other sectors to serve as the engine for development with purposes of rich people,
strong country and an equitable, democratic and civilized society. In order to
strengthen the capacity of supplying power source, a vitual infrastructure, Electricity
of Vietnam (EVN) has established the project "Transmission, distribution and
overcoming natural disasters" (3034-VN) financed by World Bank (WB). One of its
component is "Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV transmission line" project with total route
length of 131,528m going through the territory of Phu Hoa and Tuy Hoa districts, Phu
Yen Province; Van Ninh and Ninh Hoa districts, Nha Trang City of Khanh Hoa
Province.
Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV transmission line project is constructed in line
with Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa 220kV transmission line and 220kV Tuy Hoa Substation
projects targeting to combine the local 110kV, 220kV power grid, to receive energy
source from power source of Ha Song Ba hydropower project, etc.. .into power grid
and to upgrade the reliability in supplying power, the quality of power energy of the
local power grid.
1. Policy framework
The plan on project compensation and resettlement is established based on Decree
197/2004/ND-CP dated December 3rd, 2004 of the Government regarding the
compensation, resettlement support when the State takes back the land; Decree
198/2004fND-CP dated November 16th,2004 of the Govermment regarding the method
to determine the land price and the price framework of land kinds; Decree
181/2004/ND-CP of the Government regarding the implementation of Land Law, etc...
and guideline on RAP establishment of WB (the policy framework of unvoluntary
resettlement OD 4.30). According to this policy, PAPs are people, households, entities
with or without juridical personality for their assets on project impacted land and
inventoried before the cut-off-date (September 9th, 2004) are entitled to compensation
and resettlement.
2. Project impacts
The project causes impacts to the followings:
Resettlement Action Plan                                          5



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
- Perpetual land acquisition at tower foundation positions, ect. (the
perpetual acquisition area of 47,345m2).
- Causing damage to trees, crops and other assets at tower foundation
positions and within ROW.
- Temporary land acquisition under project construction
Results of project data collection show that there are 135 households whose houses
and structures are impacted within the safe corridor of the line route, whereas:
+ No household loses over 25% area of agricultural land
+ No affect to cultural relics area, preservation area, pagoda and sensitive areas
+ No ethnic minority household among impacted households.
During public consultation process, impacted households were agreed to select the
compensation procedure on land and assets in cash.
3. Compensation policy
The cut-off-date is September 96, 2004. The price for making compensation on land,
assets and crops is based on the compensation unit price of Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa
Provinces.
All impacted households are entitled according to the policy framework and Vietnam
Decrees such as displacement support, support for production stabilization, etc... Up
till now, the survey result and damage inventory shows that no remarkable impacts to
people, the community and the public assets. As a result, it is unnecessary to have
economical recovery measures.
4. Public consultation
PAPs consultation to get feedback comments will restrict the contradictions and delay
when implementing the project. The resettlement plan will be implemented following
to the reference comments from the authorities and people in order to maximize their
participation in the resettlement plan and implementation as well as socio-economical
benefits. The authorities and people are consulted about line route location, the
resettlement policy, implementation of resettlement plan, grievance mechanism and
the checking, appraisal towards the recovery of life for impacted people after project
implementation.
Resettlement Action Plan                                           6



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                Feasibility Study
5. Grievance
During project implementation, grievances of impacted people will be solved based on
GOV law. All grievances will be solved equitably and the grievance procedures will
be guided by related authorities. The griever will pay no cost for this grievance.
CPPMB and the local authority are responsible for monitoring the RAP
implementation process. In addition, an independent consulting agency will be
assigned to supervise independently and appraise the compensation and resettlement
implementation process in accordance with the policy stated in this dossier. This
agency can be selected and awarded the contract by the PMB after the approved
resettlement plan or selected and awarded the contract by WB. The supervising
activities are implemented from the beginning of project implementation stage. This
independent supervising agency will report to PMB or WB about its results of
supervising activities.
6. Management organization
CPPMB is the project coordinating unit and cooperates with other agencies such as the
Provincial People's Committee of Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa, the local authority, Power
Company of Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa provinces and WB in implementing detailed
works of project, especially the RAP implementation plan.
7. Project implementation schedule
Contents                              Time
Technical investigation, technical design and 03/2005
approval
Ask for land acquisition, compensation work and 05/2005 - 09/2005
land clearance
Establish and submit bidding document       07/2005 - 10/2005
Preparation of construction drawings        10/2005 - 12/2005
Procurement of equipment and materials      12/2005 - 09/2006
Construction, revising, testing and hand-over  01/2006-11/2006
Commissioning and put the project into service  12/2006
Resettlement Action Plan                                          7



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
8. Cost estimate
Total project compensation cost is about VND 13,805,670,307 (or USD873,777)
Total investment cost of the whole project is VND 345,455,973,050 (or
USD21,864,302)
9. Information dissemination
The draft RAP will be disclosed in Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa provinces and the
infonnation Development Center of WB (VDC) at 63 Ly Thai To, Ha Noi. CPPMB
will send copies of entitlement statement form to the project district authority. All
feedbacks from the local authority and people are considered and supplemented into
the RAP.
R esettle m entlA cti o n
Resettlement Action Plan                                           8



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL INTRODUCTION
1.1 THE BASIS OF THE REPORT
Basics for project establishment:
- Pursuant to Official Letter No.1127 EVN/AMT - KH dated March 25, 2004
issued by CPPMB regarding the FS establishment of power grid projects.
- Based on the above instruction, CPPMB has signed a contract with PECC4 for
preparing Feasibility Study Report, RAP and EIA of the project.
Carrying out the contract (with CPPMB), PECC4 has been gathering data,
surveying at sites and preparing RAP report for the project.
1.2 OBJECTIVES
This report is set up with following purpose:
+ Study on policies of compensation, resettlement for households having land
acquisition for construction of substation, foundation, tower, temporary road for work
execution, etc ...according to Vietnam laws and WB guidelines.
+ Propose the alternatives of compensation, resettlement and the most efficient
way of implementation to the households affected.
+ Help to choose the right design alternative, minimize the degree of damage at
the implementation of project and ensure the highest socio-economic interests of the
project.
+ Making livelihood-socio-economic damage survey of project area and work
with local authorities concerning the compensation and resettlement policy for affected
households. The survey and data collecting work focuses mainly on the right of way.
The principle objective of the Policy Framework on involuntary resettlement
OD4.30 is:
All PAP's residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of way
(ROW) of transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower foundation, the
substation areas, in the service roads under the Project as of the date of the baseline
surveys are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist
them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project living standards, income earning
Resettlement Action Plan                                           9



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
capacity and production level. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not bar the
PAP from entitlement to such rehabilitation measures.
During RAP'preparation, Decrees and Circulars of Vietnamese Government
such as Decree 197/20041ND-CP, Decree 181/2004/ND-CP, Decree 188/2004/ND-CP,
etc and Decisions about compensation unit price issued by the provincial peoples'
committees are applied. The entitlement policy in this RAP are suggested as follows:
+ Apply a compensation rate according to the market price or replacement
price: Compensation of land and crops (short-day trees) at market price. Compensation
of houses and trees (perennial trees) at conversion price.
+ All affected properties are legible from the cut-off-date (September 9th 2004).
The affected households who have been registered will be compensated.
This RAP will be furnished to GOV and WB for concurrence.
1.3 VALIDITY OF RAP IMPLEMENTATION
Resettlement and compensation program for PAPs, policy and provisions on
resettlement and compensation entitlement in RAP will only be applied after approval
of WB and Vietnamese Government. To meet RAP's objectives such as minimizing
the resettlement and land acquisition, PAPs will be supplied the information on
project, compensation and resettlement, the compensation costs will be paid at
replacement cost or market cost. Thus, before implementing resettlement and
compensation program, the project owner and local authorities should check and revise
the applied compensation costs in this report. If there is any compensation unit price
non-conforming at'the time of program implementation, the local authorities and
Resettlement and Compensation Board (RCB) need to revise them to ensure sufficient
compensation payment for PAPs according to principles stated in RAP.
Survey data in this report base on the technical design report and is updated as
per the approved alter'native.
1.4 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1.4.1 The project characteristics
Main technical specification and scale:
- Voltage level:  220kV.
- Number of circuit: 02 circuits
Resettlement Action Plan                                          10



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
On the route, most of the I OkV and 220kV trnsmission lines go on double circuit
.       tower row. Especially for the section about 0.9km away from Nha Trang substation, the route
goes with two (2) single circuit tower rows for each transmission line. For the section about
1.5km away from Tuy Hoa substation, the route goes on the single circuit tower row with
220kV transnission line and on both double circuit and single circuit tower row with  lOkV
transmission line (only one circuit is suspended at the 1 lOkV double circuit tower section, the
remaining circuit is blank for redundancy of 1 1 OkV tansmission line to Son Hoa in the future).
- Number ofturning angle: 91 angles whereas:
+ 220kV T/L goesjointlywith 1 lOkVT/L: 81 turning angles
+ 1l OkVT/L goes separately: IO turning angles
-  Total route length: 131,528mwhereas:
+ 22OkVT/L goes jointlywith 1 lOkVT/L: 128,755m
+ 1 lOkVT/L goes separately. 2,773m
The sections which the line route goes through namely: Phu Hoa and Tuy Hoa
Districts (Phu Yen province); Van Ninh and Ninh Hoa Districts, Nha Trang City
(Khanh Hoa province).
- Staring-point: 220-1 lOkVkV busbar of 220/110kV Tuy Hoa susbtation (will be
constructed ) belonging to Phu Hoa District - Phu Yen Province.
- End-point: 220-lOkV busbar of 220/llOkV Nha Trang substation (existing)
belonging to Nha Trang City- Khanh Hoa Province.
- Conductor:
+ 220kV transmission line: ACSR - 400/51
+ 11 OkV transmission line: ACSR-240/39, for the section crossing Da Rang
river: ACSR-400/51
According to the direction looked from the starting-point to the end-point, the
conductor of 220kV T/L is arranged on the right (to the Western direction) and the
conductor of 11 OkV T/L is arranged on the left (to the Eastern direction).
- Ground-wire:
+ 220kV TAL: composite optical fiber overhead ground-wire OPGW-70. For
the incoming section of the substation suspended another galvanized steel wire
GSW-70.
Resettlement Action Plan



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
+  lOkV T/L: galvanized steel wire GSW-70. For section from the starting
tower and ending tower of the incoming and outgoing section of the substation,
suspended another galvanized steel wire GSW-70.
- Insulator:      glass insulator or equivalent standard is used.
+ 220kV T/L: 7OkN insulator type is used for suspension string; 160kN, 2lOkN
for tension string. For the accessories, the type with 7OkN durability is used for
suspension string and l6OkN for the tension string.
The suspension insulated disc gets the creepage distance of 295mm, the tension
insulated disc gets the creepage distance of 295mm (for 12OkN type), 340mm (for
16OkN type) and 370mm (21OkN type).
- Eartiing: as per ray type and ray in combination with pile type, 4 types are
used: TD4x4O, TD4x6O, TD4x6O-16 and TD4x6O-16a.
- Towers: galvanized steel tower with 2 circuits, 220kV structure. Especially for
the incoming section of Nha Trang substation, the single circuit steel tower is used for
each 220kV and   lOkV T/L; for the incoming section of Tuy Hoa substation, the
single circuit steel tower is used for each 220kV T/L and the double circuit, single
circuit steel tower for I1 OkV T/L.
- Arms:      anns with towers all-in one block are manufactured
- Foundation: there are 4 pier foundations cast in place for each position; the
raft foundation is used for weak soil and the pile foundation is used only for the
suspension tower position in the section crossing Da Rang river.
* Extension of the feeder bay of 220kV Nha Trang substation
In order to construct the 220kV feeder bay, it is necessary to transfer the
220kV switchgear from "quadrangle" diagram into the diagram "two busbar systems
with ring busbar, the bus - section circuit breaker and bus coupling breaker", details as
follows:
- New construction of one 220kV transmission line feeder
- New construction of one feeder of the bus - section circuit breaker and bus
coupling breaker
Resettlement Action Plan                                               12



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
- Dismantling and new installation of some 220kV disconnectors, 220kV
suspension strings in the existing feeders to comply with the new connection
diagram.
Construction of 110kV outgoing feeder: it is necessary to completely construct
one 110kV transmission line feeder complying with the existing diagram "two
busbar systems with ring busbar, the bus - section circuit breaker and bus
coupling breaker".
1.4.2 Project impacts
Impacts on land and properties:
a Permanent impacts:
- Permanent land acquisition for tower foundations
b. Temporary impacts:
- Trees, crops in ROW and temporary service road
- All trees and crops surrounding the tower foundation areas
The safe corridor of the above-mentioned line route is not regulated in Decree
54/1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 of the Government regarding the safe protection
of high voltage power grid and Decree 118/2004/ND-CP of the Government
concerning the amendment of some articles in Decree 54/1999/ND-CP.
With the above-mentioned characteristics and scale, land acquired for the
project construction as follows:
- Number of tower foundations      : 390
- Permanent land acquisition area  : 47,345m2
- Temporary acquisition land area in safe corridor of power grid: 1,602,546m2
On Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV line route, there are 135 households with
impacted houses and structures.
1.5 PROJECT IMPACTS MITIGATION MEASURES
Selection of logical line route and tower location: For the investigation and
design of line route completely avoid passing:
- Market areas, densely populated areas.
- Airport, military areas.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            13



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
- Near or parallel with communication system
- Temple, pagoda
- Protection forests, natural preserved areas
- Historic and cultural heritage etc.
Technical solutions thoroughly exploited:
Rational design of tower span, foundation structure is designed with different
measures in conformity with the chosen site.
Before the construction is implemented, the Owner and the Civil Contractor
need to do necessary procedures as per the prevailing regulations such as making
agreement with the local authority, the transport agency, making plan on every work
item, e.g designing a rational work execution alternative, choosing time for work
execution at periods of harvest and complete work when next crop is not yet cultivated
(land is at rest). If the cultivated period cannot be avoided then manual construction
measures are used in order to diminish the surface of land acquired for work
execution, road for big trucks are not constructed, organize work according to many
shifts at high productivity, reducing the time of lay-out acquisition. During the process
of stringing conductor, make scaffold and pull conductor neatly on belt of land about
5m to avoid causing damages of trees and agricultural crops. Make definetely each
item of work, each part of route line to reduce the time of land appropriation. Make
full use of the existing roads for transportation of equipments and for other purposes
during the time of work execution, limiting the construction of new road.
During investigation and work execution process, the workers's camps are set up
on vacant lot, on communal office area, not on private land or cultivated land.
The result of these minimizing measures is that affected houses on the line route
are the least.
During the stage'of operation management, when making repairs and overcoming
incidents, following safety measures must be applied:
- Safety measures when making contact with electrical equipments
-Safety measures when carrying out operation management works, repairs of
electric grid.
Resettlement Action Plan                                             14



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                       Feasibility Study
1.6 PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Total investment capital (In round)   VND 345,455,973,050
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 15



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 2
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
FOR COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT
Project Management Board and Local Authority of all levels will be responsible for
implementing RAP. The RAP implementation must be made in line with the approved
schedule of the project. The coordination between the project owner and local
authorities will be made closely in order to implement RAP smoothly and effectively
and to avoid the interruption or delay of RAP implementation.
2.1 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The following institutions/agencies will be involved in implementing RAP:
- PCs of 02 provinces: Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa
- Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
- Project Management Board - Central Power Projects Management Board
- Consultant Company - Power Engineering Consulting Company No.4.
- Departments of Finance and Goods Price of the above project provinces
- Land Clearance Boards of the above project provinces
- People's Committees of Nha Trang City, Phu Hoa, Tuy Hoa, van Ninh, Ninh
Hoa Districts.
- Land offices of the above project city and districts.
- Land clearance Committees of city and districts.
- People's Committees of project affected communes such as Hoa Quang Bac,
Hoa Quang Nam, Hoa Dinh Dong, Hoa Phong, Hoa Dong, Hoa Tan Tay, Hoa Tan
Dong, Hoa Xuan Tay, Hoa Xuan Dong, Hoa Xuan Nam, Dai Lanh, Van Tho, Van
Phuoc, Van Long, Van Khanh, Van Thang, Van Binh, Van Phu, Van Luong, Van
Hung, Ninh An, Ninh Trung, Ninh Than, Ninh Xuan, Ninh Binh, Ninh Quang, Ninh
Hung, Ninh Loc, Ninh Ich, Vinh Luong, Vinh Phuong and Vinh Ngoc.
- Project affected persons
2.2 FUNCTIONS, TASKS FORCE AND RESPONSIBILITY
*: Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
Resettlement Action Plan                                             16



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
EVN is the owner of the project and is responsible for managing and organizing
of investment policy, investigation, design, construction as well as supervision for
RAP implementation. EVN controls the project preparation and implementation via
professional agencies, approving decisions concerning resettlement work submitted by
PMB; assigning Central Power Projects Management Board (CPPMB) to directly
manage the whole process of project implementation.
*: Project Management Board (PMB)
Central Power Projects Management Board is assigned by EVN in directing the
whole project including the implementation of RAP from impact survey, inventory,
making plans for RAP implementation. Main tasks of PMB will be:
+ Making Master Plan, management and supervision of land clearance
implementation to ensure full determination of relating PAPs, set out satisfied
entitlements as per site clearance policy.
+ To ensure that all PAPs are announced of applied policies for RAP
preparation. Entitlements of PAPs, project information and RAP are popularized under
announcement form. This is considered the proof of their entitlement towards interests
of RAP work.
+ Disseminate project information to PCs of all levels
+ Send RAP to Resettlement Committees, explaining applied models and
entitlements in the project.
+ Supervision/monitoring for compensation payment, coordinate to implement
land acquisition and site clearance.
+ Independent monitoring for RAP implementation, assigning an experienced
and competent agency to do this.
+ Report the implementation process on land clearance work to EVN and WB.
To meet this r'esponsibility, PMB needs to establish a department or a group
including experienced officers to monitor RAP and environment implementation.
* Provincial People's Committees (PPCs): Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa
PPC is the agency approving and directing matters concerning the RAP within
the provincial area. The Project PPC are responsible for:
Resettlement Action Plan                                             17



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 22OkVJtransmission line                    Feasibility Study
* Directing departments, branches and local areas in province related to RAP
preparation and implementation such as Land Department, Construction Department,
Department of Finance and Goods Price and project affected PAPCs.
* Approving the costs of compensation in provincial area.
* Approving dossiers of land delivery and recovery in provincial area.
* Establishing Provincial Resettlement and Compensation Committee and
directly manages the activities of this Board.
* Directing and managing the coordination between Branches and local
authorities in RAP implementation.
*: Departments of Finance and Goods Price of Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa
Provinces
To be responsible for issuing detailed compensation unit prices applied in the
provincial area. During the implementation process, Department of Finance-Goods
Price needs to make cooperation with other departments such as Construction
Department, Land Department, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
and People's Committee of District where the project constructed in order to establish
the compensation unit price for premises, land, trees and crops.
* Provincial Compensation Committees: Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa
PCCs are consulting institutions for provinces about RAP approval and RAP
implementation management according to the provincial approved plan. Provincial
Resettlement Committee will be headed by a Vice Chairman of Provincial People's
Committee. Provincial Resettlement Committee is mainly responsible for:
* Assisting owner and compensation committees of districts in preparing
detailed plans for compensation and resettlement.
* Checking all inventories of project impacts and detailed implementation plans
prepared and submit'ted by Compensation Committees of districts. Approval for
implementation plans within 10 days after receiving the plans submitted by District
Resettlement Committees.
* Checking and submitting RAP implementation plans in provinces to PPCs for
approval.
Resettlement Action Plan                                             18



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
* Directing and supervising the RAP implementation in province as per the
schedule and policies approved in RAP.
* Solving outstanding problems due to the unsatisfied solution at the District
Resettlement Committees.
* Compensation payment for PAPs via District Resettlement Committees.
Provincial Compensation Committees will consist the representatives of:
- Department of Finance and Goods Price
- Construction Department
- Industrial Department
- Department for Agriculture and Rural Development
- Department of Natural Resources and Environment
- Chairmen of People's Committee of related districts
- Representative of Provincial Project Management Boards.
Staffs of Provincial Resettlement Boards will be work concurrently and get allowances
according to PPC's decisions. Assistants work during the project implementation and
get salary during the work period.
*.* People's Committees of Nha Trang City, Phu Hoa, Tuy Hoa, Van Ninh,
and Ninh Hoa Districts.
Being responsible for guiding compensation and resettlement activities in
district, town and city areas. People's Committees of Districts, Towns and Cities are
responsible for:
+ Creating good conditions and coordinate with relating agencies in survey,
inventory of project impact; organize community consultation activities, information
dissemination on the project implementation policy and land acquisition plan to people
of commune (ward) where project constructed.
+ Establishment of Resettlement Committees of Districts (Cities)
+ Directing and monitoring RAP implementation in districts (cities)
+ Solving relating matters during RAP implementation together with
Resettlement Committees of district (city).
*. Resettlement Committees of Nha Trang City, Phu Hoa, Tuy Hoa, Van
Ninh, and Ninh Hoa Districts
Resettlement Action Plan                                            19



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
These are key institutions being mainly responsible for implementing RAP in
district (city) area. Resettlement Committees of districts consist of experienced
officers of the data-gathering inventory. Resettlement Committees of districts (Cities)
are mainly responsible for:
* Checking all survey documents concerning affected households and assets,
making Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) for each household including of
affected assets, total compensation cost based on entitlement policies regulated in
RAP.
* Checking the unit prices of compensation stated in RAP, suggest adjustment
to comply with market prices at the plan implementation period.
* Co-ordinating with PMB, consultant agency to organize RAP meetings in
local section and organize community consultation together with project owner.
* Summarize and submit data affected in local section to Provincial
Resettlement Committee.
* Based on the policy and approved schedule in RAP, preparing the detailed
implementation plan and submit it to Provincial Resettlement Committee.
* Directly make payment on compensation and allowances to PAPs in a timely
manner.
* Settling the complaints and grievances of PAPs, solving any difficulties
during the implementation period, and suggest the solutions for the outstanding issues
to Provincial Resettlement Committees and Owner.
* Making monthly report and send them to PRCs, Owner and Chairmen of
PAPCs.
Resettlement Committees of districts (town, city) will be headed by Vice
Chairnen of districts (cities) and consist of following members:
- Representative 'of Economic Office
- Representative of Land Office.
- Representative of Agricultural and Rural Development Office
- Representative of Statistic Office
- Representative of Industrial Office
- Representative of affected Commune.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            20



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
- Representative of PAPs
Staffs of Resettlement Boards of Districts (towns, cities) will work concurrently
and enjoy allowances according to PAPC's decision. Assistants work during the
project implementation and get salary during the work period.
* Commune (ward) People's Committees
* Contributing to Overall Detailed Measurements Surveys.
* Co-ordinate with Resettlement Committees of districts for classifying
impacted assets, determine the legality and legibility of assets.
* Certify affected assets in general survey for compensation dossier of each
household (in the survey note).
* Assisting local people in overcoming the difficulties during the process of
construction or rehabilitation of damages caused by project implementation. Making
public information about the project and disseminating policies in RAP.
*: Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
* Directly participate in the general survey, consider thoroughly their
entitlement and responsibility policy. After getting full entitlements, PAPs should
transfer the construction surface on time.
* Propose expectation, requirement for the above mentioned institutions and
monitor their implementation.
PMBs and all project provinces will arrange full experienced staffs to ensure
that the RAP will be implemented smoothly as the schedule accepted.
2.3 STAFFING ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBLES
Table 2.1: Responsibilities of RAP implementing Institutions
No.             Activities                        Institutions
Organizing meetings with PAPs to Compensation Committees
1   disseminate all RAP activities of
project
Monitoring     and     certifying Project  Management  Board   and
2   impacted  households  and  their Resettlement Committees of district
assets                          (town, city) coordinate with Commune
Resettlement Action Plan                                             21



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
People's Committees
Project Management Board, Land
Clearance Committee coordinate with
3   Detailed measurement survey    Commune People's Committees and
relevant Units of local authority.
4   Informing for PAPs             Project Management Board
Decision    on     compensation Compensation Committees
5
problems
Compensation payment            Compensation Committees and Project
6
Management Board
7   Internal Monitoring            Project Management Board
Department of Natural Resources and
Environment or provincial socio-
l        ~~~8 Independent Monitoring
science Units selected by  Project
Management Board.
2.4 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
This is a project with loan from World Bank so the legal grounds applied will
be a combination of Vietnam and WB policies.
a. The Legal Documents of the Government of Vietnam
The Constitution of Vietnam, 1992 confirms the right of citizens to own a house
and to protect the ownership of the house.
According to Vietnam Law on land passed by National Assembly Term XI,
Session IV on Nove mber 26th, 2003 and come into force from July 1st, 2004.
Article 5: Land Tenure
1. Land is sub ect to the ownership of all people and the State is the owner's
representative.
2. The State carries out land decision right as follows:
a. Deciding the land using purpose via the decision, approval of land using plan
(hereinafter called plan, land using plan).
b. Regulating land delivery limit and land using period.
Resettlement Action Plan                                           22



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
c. Deciding land delivery, land leasing, land recovery and permit the changing
of land using purpose.
d. Fixing land price.
3. The Stated carries out the regulating right of income sources from land via
financial policies about land as follows:
a. Collecting land use charge, land leasing charge.
b. Collecting land use tax, income tax from land use right transfer.
c. Regulating on the value added part from land not due to investments of land
user.
4. The State offers LUR for land user via forms of land delivery, land leasing,
acknowledging LUR for stable land users; stipulating right and responsibility of land
user.
Article 7: The State carries out the owner representative right of all people
about land and implements common state management about land.
1. The National Assembly passes law on land, decides the plan and land use
plan of the whole country, carrying out the supreme supervision right towards the land
management and use in the whole country.
2. The Government decides the plan and land use plan of provinces, Central
cities and the plan, land use plan on the purpose of defense, security; implements
common state management about land in all country.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible with GOV
concerning the state management about land.
3. People's Councils of all levels carry out the supervision right on land law
implementation in local section.
4. People's Committees of all levels carry out the representative right of land
owner and right of sta'te management about land at local section as per the competence
stipulated by law.
rd
* Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP issued by GOV on December 3 , 2004 regulates
compensation, resettlement support for recovered land by GOV.
* Circular No.1 16/2004/TT-BTC issued December 7t, 2004 by the Ministry of
Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP issued
Resettlement Action Plan                                           23



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
by GOV on December 3rd, 2004 regulates compensation, resettlement support
for recovered land by GOV.
* Decree No 188/2004/ND-CP of November 16t, 2004 on the stipulation of
method to determine the land price and the frame for the price of land types.
* Circular No.1 14/2004/TT-BTC issued November 16th, 2004 by the Ministry of
Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No 188/2004/ND-CP of
November 16th, 2004 on the stipulation of method to determine the land price
and the frame for the price of land types.
* Decree   No.181/2004/ND-CP    issued  by  the  GOV    concerning  the
implementation of Land Law.
* The Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8th, 1999 on the protection of
the high voltage networks.
* Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May 10t, 2004 regarding the amendment of
some articles in Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
* Law on Petition and Accusation approved by National Assembly on December
02, 1998
* Decree No. 67/1999/ND - CP, issued by GOV on 7/81999 regulates in detail
the Law on Petition and Accusation.
b. World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
* The primary objective of this policy is to ensure that PAPs who have lost
assets are compensated at replacement cost and are provided with recovery measures
to help them improve better or at least maintain their standard of life and their income
capacity as in pre-project conditions.
* The policy framework is established based on the principles and objectives,
selection criteria for PAPs, entitlements, legal framework and institutions, mode of
rehabilitation and compensation, the participation of people. Furthermore, procedures
of grievance will be guided in the process of compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation for PAPs.
c. Comparison between Government of Vietnam and World Bank
Approaches
* There are a number of ways in which the approaches of the Vietnam
Government- both in policy and practice - are compatible with World Bank guidelines
so that PAPs can have legitimate entitlements. The most important compatibilities are:
Resettlement Action Plan                                            24



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
* Vietnam has a process whereby most people without legal land rights may meet
conditions of legalization and receive compensation for losses.
* Permanent residents are provided with options that include relocation to an
improved site, or cash, or a combination of the two.
* Resettlement sites offer not only better-improved infrastructure and services but
also represent a higher standard of living.
* Allowances are provided to help the PAPs in the transition period and there is
an institutional structure through which people are informed, can negotiate
compensation, and can appeal.
* Differences between the approaches and measures that need to be addressed
within the program also exist. However, in this context, procedures exist within
national and City governments that allow the granting of waivers of domestic
law on specific projects that may be in conflict with that of the funding agency.
d. Required Waivers
In order to meet the requirements of the World Bank OD4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement a number of articles in various Vietnamese laws and regulations which
do not ensure compensation at replacement cost or set eligibility provisions which do
not extend the right to rehabilitation and or assistance to households without proper
land paper, will be waived.
The articles of law and regulations that will be waived are mentioned below:
* Price of Land for Calculation of Compensation
According to Vietnam regulations, the calculation of land price for
compensation will be based on Decree 188/2004/ND-CP, Decree 181/2004/ND-CP,
etc and Circulars No. 116/2004/TT-BTC, No.1 14/2004/TT-BTC.
To ensure that the objectives of the project resettlement policy are met, unit
price for land compensation established by the Project Provincial/City People's
Committees will be adjusted to meet at replacement costs.
The Item 4, Article 2 of Decree 17/2001/ND-CP dated May 04, 2001 to guide
on the ODA management stipulates that "in the case of the international agreements on
ODA have been signed between GOV and sponsor stipulates other contents, then that
international agreements will be followed".
Resettlement Action Plan                                            25



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 3
ENTITLEMENT POLICY
3.1 DEFINITION OF ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATION TO ELIGIBILITY
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) including people confinned by data collected
from the survey and investigation process as follows:
- PAPs have houses which are partially or totally affected (temporarily or
permanently) by the project.
- PAPs with partial or total impacted residental land or agriculture land by the
project, temporarily or permanently.
- PAPs with businesses and related income which are partially or totally affected
(temporarily or permanently) by the project.
- PAPs have crops (annual and perennial) and trees which are partially or totally
affected by the project.
- Encroachers who settled into the proposed affected area after the cut-off date
(June 18th, 2004) will have no entitlement to compensation and resettlement. They will
*      be required to demolish their structure and cut the trees or harvest their crops for land
clearance to the project. In the case necessary, they will be forced to be removed out of
the proposed project area. Nevertheless, they do not have to pay any fine or sanction.
3.2 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION PRINCIPLES
The compensation and resettlement plan is established based on fundamental
principles, i.e conforming to laws, decrees, policies regulated by Vietnamese
Government and WB's guidelines consisting of:
1. Acquisition of land and other assets, and resefflement of people will be
minimized as much as possible.
2. All PAP's residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of
way (ROW) of transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower
foundation, the substation areas, in the service roads under the project as of
the date of the baseline surveys are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation
measures sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-
project living standards, income earning capacity and production levels. Lack
Resettlement Action Plan                                             26



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
of legal rights to the assets lost should not bar the PAP from entitlement to
such rehabilitation measures.
3. The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) compensation at
replacement cost, without deduction for depreciation or salvage materials for
houses and other structures; (ii) agricultural land for land of equal productive
capacity acceptable to the PAPs or in cash at replacement cost according to
PAP's choice; (iii) replacement of residential/premise land of equal size
acceptable* to the PAP or in cash at replacement cost according to PAP's
choice; and (iv) transfer and subsistence allowances.
4. Location of resettlement and relocation should be as close as possible to
existing residential area of PAPs.
5. The resettlement transition period will be minimiized and the rehabilitation
means will be provided to the PAPs not over one month prior to the expected
start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
6. Plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation
measures will be carried out in consultation with the PAPs, to ensure minimal
disturbance. Entitlements will be provided to PAPs not over one month prior to
the expected start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
7. The standard of life, the infrastructure of community must be maintained or
improved better than their prior place.
8. Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitation will be
made available and as where and when required.
9. Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design, planning,
consultation and iimplementation of RAP.
10. Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP will be carried out.
3.3 ELIGIBILITY TO COMPENSATION ENTITLEMENT
Legitimate PAPs are all the affected households and institutions included in the
inventory with or without legal title included in the RAP inventory or able to
demonstrate with other means that prior to RAP cut-off date they owned, rented or
used land, and properties associated with land as defined in 3.1 item.
Resettlement Action Plan                                             27



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
3.4 ENTITLEMENT POLICY
PAP's will be entitled to the following types of rehabilitation and assistance
measures as per the.policy framework OD 4.30:
* PAP's losing agricultural land and crops
(i)   The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land
will be through provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal
productive capacity, satisfactory to the PAP.
However, if the PAP prefers to receive cash compensation then the
following applies:
!  -  if the portion of the land to be lost represents 25% or less than
25% of the total area of the landholding, and the remaining
land is still a viable economic holding, cash compensation, at
full replacement cost, may be provided to the PAP; or
i - if more than 25% of a villager's agricultural land is acquired
and the remaining holding is not viable then the Project will
acquire  the  entire  landholding  and  provide  cash
compensation at full replacement cost.
(ii)  PAP's will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit
or industrial trees at market price. Productive trees will be
compensated at replacement cost. Fruit trees will be compensated
for the remaining harvests.
(iii)  PAP's whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the each
sub-Project will be compensated for their loss of income, standing
crops and for the cost of soil restoration and damaged
infrastructure. Land will be rehabilitated after the project
construction by PMB.
* PAP's losing residential land and house/structure
(i)   The mechanism for compensating loss of residential land and
structures will be: (1) the provision of replacement residential land
(house site and garden) of equivalent size, satisfactory to the PAP or
Resettlement Action Plan                                             28



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
cash compensation at replacement cost according to PAPs' options;
and (2) cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the
house/structures, without deduction for depreciation or salvage
materials or compensate in kind according to PAPs' options.
(ii)  If residential land is only partially being affected by the Project and
the remaining areas are not sufficient for reorganizing PAPs' then at
the request of the PAP, the entire residential land will be acquired at
fall replacement cost.
(iii) If house/other structure is only partially being affected by the Project
and the remaining areas are not convenient to using, the house/
structure will be acquired at full replacement cost, without
depreciation.
* PAP's will also be provided compensation at full replacement cost, without
deduction for depreciation and salvage materials for any other fixed assets affected in
part or in total by the project, such as tombs and water wells, etc.
Pursuant to Decree 197/2004/ND-CP issued by the GOV concerning compensation,
resettlement support for recovered land by GOV, then PAPs will be supported as
follows:
- As per Article 27: Transportation allowance
Households getting land recovered by GOV must relocate within the province, city are
entitled to a maximum of 3 million VND, relocating out of the province are entitled to
a maximum of 5 million VND. The level of allowance in details will be regulated by
the Provincial People's Committee.
Entities getting fully conditions to be compensated on land and assets when
being recovered, however they must change the location then they will be supported
completely the actual displacement cost, dismantling and installation.
People who are recovered the residential land, having no other residential place then
within time waiting for rehabilitating the new place, will be arranged in the temporary
houses or supported with money for house renting; the time and the support level in
details are regulated by Provincial PC in accordance with the local reality.
- As per Article 28: Restoration allowance
Resettlement Action Plan                                             29



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
Households, people directly make agricultural production, when being recovered more
than 30% area of assigned agricultural land, will be supported for stabilizing the life
within 3 months without relocation and within 6 months with relocation; in case
relocate in areas with difficult or especially difficult socio-economical conditions then
the support time is maximum of 12 months. The support level in cash for one person
per month equivalent to 30 kg of rice calculated as per the average price in local
region.
When the GOV recovers land of economical entities, registered business households
and causes business pausing, the maximum support level is 30% of an annual income
after tax, according to the average income of three subsequent years before confirmed
by the tax agency. The support level in details are regulated by Provincial PC in
accordance with the local reality.
-    As per Article 29: Support for changing the career and creating
employment.
-    As per Article 30: Support for the hirer not belonging to the state
ownership
Households, people who are renting houses not belonging to the state ownership, when
being recovered the land by GOV and must dismantle the house and relocate then will
be supported with the displacement cost equivalent to the level regulated at Item 1
Article 27 of this Decree. Pursuant to the local reality condition, the Provincial PC
regulates the support level to stabilize their life and production.
-    As per Article 31: Support level when recovering the public land of
communes, wards or towns.
-     Other support such as beside the support regulated in Articles 27, 28, 29,
30 and 31 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP, pursuant to the local actual
situation, the Chairman of Provincial PC decides the other support
measures to ensure the life and production stabilization for people who
were recovered the land; in special cases, this will be submitted to the
Prime Minister for decision.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            30



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
Forms of subsidy and bonus for PAPs
Type of subsidy                        Amount
- Monthly subsidy for relocated PAPs  30kg rice/month for each person in 6
months, subsidy granted at one time for
each household with total or partial land
area that impossible to substitute.
- Displacing subsidy              1,000,000 - 3,000,OOOVND for inside
province; 3,000,000 - 5,000,OOOVND for
outside province.
- Displacement subsidy            Maximum of VND 3,000,000 for inside
province and VND 5,000,000 for outside
province.
Supporting for the whole cost for
dismantling, installation.
Supporting the house-renting money (due
to the decision of the Chairman of
Provincial PC)
- Subsidy for life and production 30 kg of rice/month/person within 3
stabilization                     months if not displace; within 6 months if
displacing the accommodation and within
12 months if displacing to the difficult
accommodation.
Supporting 30% of the income in one
year if affecting to the business.
- Subsidy for changing career and The impacted household losing over 30%
creating the employment           area of the agricultural production land
will be supported for changing career.
- Other subsidy levels            Due to the decision of the Chairman of
Provincial PC.
3.5 IMPACTED CATEGORIES
By the nature of the project impacts as described above and based on the survey
of the PAPs the impacted categories are classified into 7 categories.
Categorv 1: Temporary acquisition of productive land in ROW.
Categorv 2: Temporary acquisition of residential land and garden land in ROW
without houses or structures in ROW.
Categorv 3: Temporary impact on residential and garden land. Partial
house/building within ROW (the impacted area is less than 25% but not affect to the
Resettlement Action Plan                                           31



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
common structure. Residential and garden land outside of ROW is sufficient for re-
organizing (over 60m2 in urban area and lOOm2 in rural area).
Category 4: Temporary impact on residential and garden land. Impact more than
25% or less than 25% of total house/building area and impact to the common structure.
Land outside of ROW is sufficient for re-organizing (over 60m2 in urban area and
100m2 in rural area).
Categorv 5: Temporary impact on residential or garden land in ROW.
House/structure is partially or totally affected. Land outside of ROW is not sufficient
for re-organizing (less than 60m2 in urban area and 100m2 in rural area).
Cate2ory 6 : Permanent land acquisition for tower foundation.
Categorv 7: PAP impacted on business or other services
Refer to Appendix 1 for details of impacted categories.
Resettlement Action Plan                                              32



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 4
SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITION OF PROJECT AREA &
PROJECT IMPACTS
4.1. Inventory of project impacts
Inventory of project impacts is implemented by PECC4 with coordination and
assistance of project local authorities. The content of inventory focuses on:
- Overall survey of project affected households
- Survey of affected public assets, enterprises, collective farm,
afforestration yards,...
- Survey of land acquisition area for project construction.
The survey is implemented by Survey Group in coordination with project
affected local sections. Each survey group consists of 3 or 4 people. General survey
votes concerning the socio-economical condition as well as impacts on land, trees,
crops, etc... are established for 100% households with houses affected byproject.
Socio-economic survey was implemented with households for so as to
determine characteristics of affected community, evaluating the population condition,
premises, main economic activities, income of households,... The data of this socio-
economic survey are used to orient the resettlement and compensation policy and to
make base for measurement of life rehabilitation level in the process of resettlement
implementation later on.
4.2. Socio-economic condition of project area
4.2.1. Phu Yen Province
Economy: Phu Yen Province gets low point of departure in economy but in the
period 1991 - 1995, GDP has increased in average 9.4% each year, in 1995 - 1998
increased correlatively 1,037 milliards VND, 1,168 milliards VND and 1,355 milliards
VND.
Society: Phu Yen is divided in 8 administrative units: Tuy Hoa city and 07
districts: Tuy An, Song Cau, Dong Xuan, Son Hoa, Song Hinh, Phu Hoa and Tuy Hoa.
Tuy Hoa city is the socio-economic and cultural centre of the province. Phu Yen has
many ethnic groups among which the Kinh people occupies 95.5% of the total
Resettlement Action Plan                                            33



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                 Feasibility Study
population, the remaining ethnic minorities are Ede, Bana, Chami Hroi and others living
mainly in mountainous districts: Song Hinh, Dong Xuan, Son Hoa with irregular
distribution. The population living in countryside is 81.1%, city is 18.9%.
Socio-economic development objectives in the period 2000 - 2010
- GDP growth rate on average annually 12 -13%.
- GDP per capita on average in 2010 reaching 700 -800 USD.
- Export turnover striving to reach 30 millions USD in 2010.
- Budget revenue striving to reach 12% GDP in 2010.
- Population increase rate will be reduced to 1.7% in the period 2001 - 2010.
4.2.2. Khanh Hoa Province
Khanh Hoa is a province belonging to the coastal of Central South region,
adjacent to Phu Yen province in the North, to Ninh Thuan province in the South, to
Dak Lak and Lam Dong provinces in the West and to the Eastern Sea in the East. For
administrative mechanism, Khanh Hoa is divided into Nha Trang city (the political,
economic and cultural centre of the province), Cam Ranh town and 6 districts namely
Van Ninh, Ninh Hoa, Dien Khanh, Khanh Son, Khanh Vinh and Truong Sa (Truong
Sa is an island district). The population of the whole province to 2000 is 1,055,372
people. Khanh Hoa is a province with many ethnic groups in which Kinh people takes
majority and the remaining ethnic minorities are Rakley, Cham,etc...
4.3 PROJECT IMPACTS
Categories of Project impacts:
Safe corridor for the line route is defined on the Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP
dated 8 July 1999 by Gov on security protection for high voltage power network and
Decree No. 118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
articles in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
Project impacts'including of:
+ Perpetual land acquisition for tower construction.
+ Temporary land acquisition consisting of:
- All high trees over 4 meters high in the safe corridor of T/L will be cut.
- All structures out of the safe corridor but it is supposed to impact to the
project or be affected by the project such as bomb and mine warehouse, gas station,
Resettlement Action Plan                                          34



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                       Feasibility Study
stone mine, communication centers, etc will be removed. It should avoid these
structures during process of investigation; if it is impossible due to difficult
topography, removal of these structures must be considered and discussed.
- Areas of safe corridor of T/L and land area during the process of pulling
conductors, etc... The impacted land area will be expected temporarily acquired from
01 month to 12 months.
Results of survey
Inventory survey workfor project impacts was carried out from 2004. Results are
as below tables:
Table 4.1: Inventory ofproject land impacts
No.       Kind of impacts      Unit      Phu Yen     Khanh Hoa       Total
1.    Houses
Compensation      on
houses, upgrading the      2
connection  of  earth-                   551         5,100      5,651
wire.
2.    Trees
a)    Paddy, crops             m2          146,359       211,187    357,546
b)    Cashew                   tree            133         5,079       5,212
c)    Eucalyptus               tree         20,946        50,615     71,561
d)    Fruit trees              tree          1,524        10,642      12,166
e)    Natural forest            ha           11.52         23.38       34.9
Area of perihanent land                2
3.        ...m2                             20,213        27,132     47,345
acquisition
Categories of affected households
Due to the specific characteristic of the T/L development project, affected
households are classified as per Appendix 1.
Resettlement Action Plan                                                35



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
5.1 Objectives of information campaign and consultation program
Information dissemination to consultation with and participation of the affected
people and involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts (ii) minimize the
risk of project delays and (iii) enable the project to design the resettlement and
rehabilitation program as a comprehensive development program to fit the needs and
priorities of the affected people thereby maximizing the economic and social benefits
of the project investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and PAP Consultation
Program are as follows:
* To share fully information about the proposed project its components and its
activities with the affected people.
*  To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and
*       communities required to be undertaken for resettlement planning and implementation.
* To ensure transparency in all activities related to land recovering,
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation for PAPs.
* To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the affected people as
well as information about their reaction/feedback to proposed policies and activities.
PAPs will be entitled to participate in different stages during the process of
investigation, survey, RAP preparation and implementation. They will be invited to
participate in meetings organized by the owner and local authorities in order to offer
opinions on replacement alternatives, entitlement policies, listening to procedures,
process of grievance implementation, responsibility of competent institutions and
responsibility of PAPs during the process of RAP implementation.
5.2. Information campaign, PAPs & agency consultation
There are two phases of the public information campaign and RAP
consultation:
Resettlement Action Plan                                             36



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
Phase 1:
During RAP survey and establishment, make interviews with PAPs for their
expectation and selection of compensation measures, During the process of
investigation, make coordination with local authorities for agreement on line route
selection.
Phase 2:
After RAP's approval, PMB and local authorities will organize meetings with
PAPs to announce information of project, compensation policy and entitlement,
replacement solutions, allowances, subsidy mentioned in RAP plan.
To ensure that PAPs, their representatives and local governments of the affected
areas fully understand on the details of RAP, PMB will also announce to all PAPs the
compensation and rehabilitation policy applied in the project before making
compensation and resettlement payment for PAPs.
The information announced to all PAPs consists of:
Part 1      - Project description,
- Project objectives
- Implementation schedule
- Project impacts
- PAPs' entitlements
- Institutions are responsible for resettlement
Part 2      - Specific entitlements of PAPs
- Description of the detailed impact of the project on the specific
household
- Compensation rates for each type of impact
- Legality and Eligibility to compensation
- Resettfement and rehabilitation alternatives
- Implementation schedule for compensation and resettlement
5.3. Information dissemination and PAPs' consultation
According to policy applied in this project, all PAPs are entitled to project
infonnation, entitlement to compensation. All PAPs have the right to take part in RAP
implementation to ensure that they enjoy proper compensation.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            37



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
PAPs will be informed and consulted through the following stages:
+ Staffs of PMBs and Resettlement Committees of provinces, districts (town)
and commune (ward) authority confinn the land acquisition part and make inventory
of all structures, land, crops and trees affected by the project with the help of PAPs as
well as the public structures affected.
+ PMP and Resettlement Committees of provinces, districts, commune
authority will organize meetings with participants of land recovering process,
announce the project information to them, discuss on their suggestion and opinions,
All PAPs and people are invited to participate in this meeting.
The meetings schedule and participants are expected as follows:
The first time:
It is expected to organize after the project's approval with the above mentioned
content, but the project impacts and resettlement and compensation policy are pressed
in order to take advantage of PAP's participation in the inventory and survey work.
Participants are:
- Representative of PMB
- Representative of Provincial Resettlement Committee
- Representative of District level authority
- Representative of Commune level authority
- PAPs or representatives of PAPs
The second time:
It is expected to organize before resettlement and compensation payment, with
the same content of the I" time but compensation policy and schedule are pressed to
ensure the fair and give favorable condition for site clearance work.
Participants are:
- Representative of PMB
- Representative of Provincial Resettlement Committee
- Representative of District level authority
- Representative of Conmmune level authority
- PAPs or representatives of PAPs
- Representative of PECC4
Resettlement Action Plan                                            38
moI



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
The meetings are organized with following content:
+ Cadres of PECC4 state the project objectives, make detailed description of the
project impact on land, agricultural crops, the policies, principles of implementation as
well as inform the policies of compensation on properties, land, agricultural crops of
the project Compensation Committee.
+ Reference to opinions during the project execution stage
+ General information on the project
Right after  signing  credit agreement and   preparation  for project
commencement, the. Project Management Board will organize meetings with involved
Provincial People's Committees of Binh Dinh, Phu Yen, and Quy Nhon city; District
People's Committees of Song Cau, Tuy An, Tuy Hoa, Phu Hoa and PC of affected
communes in order to inform local authorities of all levels on project policy,
suggesting them to coordinate their activities concerning the site clearance work.
+ General information on RAP
When carrying investigation on project impact, a campaign of information and
reference on opinions about RAP must be taken including: socio-economic documents,
investigation sheet on statistics of land, properties, agricultural crops being affected;
giving instructions on filling all necessary information in the available investigation
sheet, organize people meetings to inform the policies of compensation price applying,
the progress of project for affected households and local authorities of all levels.
+ Information spread on local multi-media means
The PMB works in combination with the local authorities for information on
multi-media means such as local radio system about the project such as the stages of
project development, information on RAP and project impact on the community in the
project area.
After obtaining the public comments, summarizing the results collected with
the agreement of local inhabitants in the project area and RAP is approved,
compensation measures will be carried out, and from then implementing the site
clearance work and preparing for work execution.
Resettlement Action Plan                                           39



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 6
GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS
The main objective of RAP implementation is to ensure the fair and adequacy
during compensation payment for PAPs. The resettlement and compensation program
should be implemented in such a way that satisfies both partners: the owner and PAPs,
grievance, complaint and solution are the process related to the owner and PAPs
during the process of RAP implementation. To solve them timely and effectively,
relevant institutions such as PMB, DRC, PRC need to respond to the complaints of the
PAPs speedily and sensibly, avoid project delays and difficulty for PAPs. The solution
should be agreed by PAPs.
During the project implementation, PAP's complaints and grievances will be
dealt with according to the regulation of Vietnamese laws. PAPs raising complaints
will be treated fairly and guided by related agencies on the order, procedures and
complaints of RAP, in addition no charge will be paid for their complaints.
Since the entire resettlement and rehabilitation program is being carried out
with the participation of the PAPs and the impacted scale of this project will be
relatively snall, it is expected that no grievance issue will arise. However, to ensure
that the PAPs have avenues for redressing their grievances related to any aspect of
compensation and resettlement, detailed procedures of redresses of grievances have
been established for the project. The mechanism is designed to be easy, transparent
and fair. By resolving grievances at the project level, the progress of the project would
be more effective ascertained.
Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of RAP's, including the
determined area and price of the lost assets, will be handled as follows:
First step:
If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation
program, he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance with commune authorities.
Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within fifteen days from the date
it receive the complaint.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            40



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
Second step:
If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she can
bring the complaint to the District People's Committee (PAPC) or District
Resettlement Committee (DRC) within fifteen days from the date of the receipt of the
decision in stage 1. The District People's Committee (DRC) or District Resettlement
Committee (DRC) will reach a decision on the complaint within fifteen days.
Third step:
If the PAP is still not satisfied with the decision at district level, he/she can
appeal to the Provincial People's Committee  (PCC) or Provincial Resettlement
Committee (PRC) within 15 days of receiving the decision of the PAPC or DRC. The
Provincial People's Committee (PRC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee (CRC)
will reach a decision on the complaint within fifteen days.
Fourth step:
If the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the Provincial level, the case may
be submitted for consideration by the District Court within 15 days of receiving
the decision of the PPC or PRC.
PAP's will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees.
Coercion for site clearance can not be applied while PAPs are waiting for solving
the complaints.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the commune
and processed. Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within 02 weeks.
In case of PAPs are illiterate persons, they can make an oral complaint with the
representatives of affected households and their representatives will record all queries
to submit to authority levels.
Every authority level will resolve the complaints as per the time regulated above.
The disputes are organized publicly and implemented in accordance with law.
Detailed procedures for redress of grievances and appeal process shown publicized
among the PAPs during participation meetings and also in the offices of RBs.
Resettlement Action Plan                                              41



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 7
MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Inplementation of RAPs will be regularly supervised and monitored by the
respective PCs/PMB in coordination with the respective District and Communes
Peoples' Committees and Communes. The findings will be recorded in quarterly reports
to be furnished to EVN or MOI.
7.1. INTERNAL MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Internal supervision and monitoring include the following activities:
- Verify that the baseline infonnation of all PAP's has been carried out and
that the valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of
compensation, resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements has been
carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Policy Framework
and the respective RAP.
- Oversee that the Inventories and RAP's are implemented as designed and
approved.
- Verify that funds for implementing the Inventories and RAP's are
provided to the respective PMBs at local level (provincial/district) in a
timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such
funds are used by the respective PMB's in accordance with the provisions
of RAP.
- Record all grievances and their resolution and ensure that complaints are
dealt with in a timely manner.
7.2. Independent monitoring
An independent agency or individual consultant will be retained by PMB of the
MOI and EVN to periodically carry out external monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP's. The independent agencies will be academic or research
institutions, non-Govermnental Organizations (NGO) or independent consulting firns,
all with qualified and experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to the World
Bank.
Resettlement Action Plan                                            42



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
In addition to verifying the infonnation furnished in the internal supervision and
monitoring reports of the respective PMBs, the external monitoring agency will visit a
sample of 20% of household PAPs in each relevant province six months after each RAP
implementation to:
- Determine whether the procedures for PAPs participation and delivery of
compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements has been done in
accordance with this Policy Framework and RAP.
- Assess if the Policy Framework objective of enhancement or at least
restoration of living standards and income levels of PAPs have been met.
- Gather qualitative indications of the social and economic impact of
Project implementation on the PAPs.
- Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of RAPs, as the
case may be, to achieve the principles and objectives of this Policy
Framework.
n
Resettlement Action Plan                                            43



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 8
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION ON
COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
8.1. MEASURES FOR THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8. 1.1. Announcement to PAPs
All PAPs shall be thorough informed about the rights and policies of RAP
including entitlement policies, rate of compensation for every type of impact, the
active participation right in land acquisition process, complaint and grievance. RAP
information will be prepared by PMB and announced to all PAPs or informed at the
meetings in province, district and commune levels; on television, radio, newspaper,
hung in public places such as administrative quarters of communes and schools.
Public announcement tasks shall be implemented immediately after EVN and WB's
approval of project is obtained. The information announced consists of:
+ Schedule of project implementation
+ Eligibility and non-eligibility to compensation and resettlement
+ The compensation principle of households using land before inventory
making, official announcement about land acquisition of State
8.1.2. Compensation deadlines
The project impacts conclude of households with areas of residential land,
agricultural land, forestry land, etc... affected permanently or temporarily. PAPs
agreed to displace and receive compensation amount so the RAP is carried out in
package to PAPs. Compensation payment for land, assets, paddy and crops; land
delivery for resettlement -should be done at least 02 months before the project land
acquisition.
PAPs will receive subsidies at the beginning of months and after their
receiving, they will have to transfer land for Site Clearance Board at least one month
before construction time.
8.2. RAP implementation process
RAP implementation will be included in 3 actions as below:
Resettlement Action Plan                                            44



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                    Feasibility Study
+ General action: Just at once when beginning the RAP implementation work of the
project.
+ Continuously action: Continuously action for the stages of RAP implementation.
Basic actions of the project
Action 1:
After RAP approved, PMB hires qualified agency for independent monitoring, this
agency must be approved by EVN and WB.
Action 2:
Provincial authorities and PMB are required to supply Resettlement Committees with
fully costs and declare the tasks for RAP implementation.
Action 3:
District Resettlement Committees carry out the Detail Measurement Survey of affected
assets and socio-economic conditions, determining the compensation unit price and if
necessary, checking and readjusting it in order to make compensation at market price
and conversion price.
Action 4:
Immediately the ends of final inventory survey, Resettlement Committees of Districts
will inspect and define the official number of PAPs, impacted properties and total
compensation amount for PAPs.
Action 5:
Resettlement Committees will officially announce the RAP policy, schedule of project
implementation and information for RAP to PAPs at public meetings including issues
related to compensation, resettlement and land clearance.
Action 6:
It is suggested to give priority to compensation payment for households with
permanent impacts, as'sisting them in transferring the production mode and mechanism
or with land for resettlement and life stabilizing. After that, making compensation
payment for PAPs affected on other properties.
Action 7:
During the project implementation, Independent and Internal Monitoring Institutions
will supervise/ monitor all actions of RAP implementation, at the same time giving
Resettlement Action Plan                                            45



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
proposals, discussions or report the changes during project implementation as well as
suggest solutions.
8.3. RAP implementation schedule
RAP will be implemented as per the schedule established to ensure the site clearance
work and schedule on project construction.
Payment of rehabilitation and furnishing of other restoration/assistance entitlements is
made in cash.
Organizational arrangement
Power companies and all project provinces will arrange full experienced staffs to
ensure that RAP will be implemented smoothly as per the accepted schedule.
Resettlement Action Plan                                               46



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
CHAPTER 10
CONCLUSION AND PROPOSALS
10.1. Conclusion
After investigation, summing up data on damages in the ROW, consulting
opinions of the relevant local authorities and community of affected households,
Through the making of RAP, we have the following conclusions:
* Investment for works construction is necessary in order to receive energy
power from Song Ha Ha Hydropower Plant and energy power transmitted on the line
meets the requirements of energy use in local sections.
* As the secure corridor of route line and construction site of substation
spreading on the area of 02 provinces, at development of compensation and making
land clearance works of the project, the relevant local committees and services have to
work in combination to ensure favorable results.
* Report on determination of land surface, trees and agricultural crops being
*      affected by the project.
* Summing up report and calculation on damages due to the project, then
bringing up common compensation price.
* Study and submission of RAP planning for community of affected inhabitants.
10.2. Proposals
* Detailed investigation of affected items must be carried out so as to supply
detailed compensation price for each affected household.
* Deep and broad propagation of information on the project by multi-media
system, etc.. .to the habitants in order to minimize the negative impact of individuals
profiting of the standpoint, investment policy of the government.
* The Project Management Committee, Resettlement Committee and
Compensation Committee have to inspect closely the execution of compensation and
land clearance works in preparation of work execution.
* Appointment of a standing team to solve in a timely way the complaints and
claims of affected households.
Resettlement Action Plan                                           50



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                            Feasibility Study
APPENDICES
R
Resettlement Action Plan                                           51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                        Feasibility Study
ANNEX 1: ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of      Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
I  Temporary         All PAPs PAPs            - Cash compensation for affected  - Trees have to be cut are regulated by Article 1-
acquisition of    have trees, with/without  trees at the replacement cost plus Item 2 of Decree No.11 8/2004/ND-CP dated May
productive land in  crops,  land           cost for cutting trees, crops  at 10th, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
ROW               other      certificate   market price. Number of crop     article in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
assets  in included  in patterns to be compensated  based on the protection of the high voltage networks.
ROW        the inventory on the time of temporarily acquired - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
or   able  to  of land.                        that compensation for trees wili be at the
prove    land - No compensation for land       replacement cost and for crops at the market price.
occupancy     - Rehabilitate land after the project If PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
pror to cut- construction.                     will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
off date.                                      using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation at least 01 month before land
clearance. Payment to PAPs will be delivered by
PMB and Resettlement Committees (RCs).
- Affected land in ROW will be rehabilitated by
contractors after the project construction and land
could be used with the restricted purposes.
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
2   Temporary         All PAPs       -do-      - Cash compensation for affected  - Trees have to be cut are regulated by Article 1-
acquisition of    with                     fruit trees and trees at replacement Item 2 of Decree No.11 8/2004/ND-CP dated May
residential and   orchards                 cost.                            10th, 2004 regarding the amendment of some
garden land in    or trees in              - No compensation for land       article in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999
ROW without       ROW                      - Rehabilitate land after the project on the protection of the high voltage networks.
house or structures
in ROW                                     construction.                    - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 52



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                   Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
that compensation for trees will be at the
replacement cost. If PAP is requested for cutting
affected trees, PMB will pay money for this work.
PAP has right for using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation to PAPs at least 01 month
before land clearance. Affected land in ROW will
be rehabilitated by contractors after the project
construction
- Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
RCs
- Finance available for compensation and well
infbrmation disclose/ disseminate
3   Temporary impact  All PAPs       -do-      House/ building:                  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and  have                    - PAP can opt for i) Remain their could be existed are regulated by Article 1- Item 3
garden land. Partial house/buil            houses or building in ROW  with the  of Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
house/building    ding  and                conditions regulated by - Trees have 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
within ROW (area  trees/fruit              to be cut are regulated by Article 1- No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
in ROW less than  trees  in                Item 3 of Decree No.11 8/2004/Nf)- protection of the high voltage networks.
25% of total area)  ROW                    CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding  - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
and the demolished                         the amendment of some article in house in ROW or move out of ROW.
area does not                              No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
impact to the                               1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be at the replacement cost,
remaining                                  voltage networks.Subsidy allowance without deduction for salvageable materials
house/building.                            for fireproof materials and lightning  - PAPs will demolish the impacted part/ room and
Residential land                           arrestors     for  the   existing reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
and garden land                            house/building; or      ii) Cash
outside of ROW  is                         compensation   for  the  directly  - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees at least
sufficient for re-                         affected rooms at the replacement 01 month before land clearance. If PAP is requested
organizing (more -                         cost and cost for demolishing  an for cutting affected trees, PMB will pay money for
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 53



*   .                        *     .                                             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .  {#
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                   Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
than 60 m2 in the                          cost and cost for demolishing  an this work. PAP has right for using salvageable
urban area and 100                         affected room.                   trees.
mt in the rural                            - No compensation for land.      -  Full  entitlement  to  PAPs  impacted  on
area).                                     - Rehabilitate land after the project house/building  at least 03  months before land
construction by contractors.     clearance.
Tree and fruit tree              - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
- Compensation for affected trees  RCs
and fruit trees at the replacement  - land in ROW  could be used with restricted
cost.
Allowances:                      purposes.
Allowances:                      - Finance available for compensation and well
- Relocating allowance of 30 kg of  information disclose/ disseminate
rice equivalent per person per month
in six months.
4   Temporary impact  All PAPs       -do-      House/ building:                  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and  have                    - PAP can opt for i) Remain their could be existed are regulated by by Article 1- Item
or garden land.   house/buil               houses or building in ROW  with the 3 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
Impact more than  ding  and                conditions regulated by - Trees have 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
25% or less than  trees/fruit              to be cut are regulated by Article 1- No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
25% of total      trees  in                Item 3 of Decree No.1 18/2004/ND- protection of the high voltage networks.
house/building    ROW                      CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
area but the                               the amendment of some article in house in ROW or move out of ROW
demolished area                            No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
will impact to the                          1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be replacement cost at the
remaining of                               voltage    networks.     Subsidy time of payment.
house/structure.                           allowance  for fireproof materials - PAPs will demolish  the impacted areas and
Land outside of                            and  lightning  arrestors for the reconstruct/orempoves theirmhosesthemsaelvs.an
ROW is sufficient                          existing house/building; or ii) Cash reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
for reorganizing                           compensation at replacement cost - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to PAPs
(more than 60 m2                           for   full  areas  of  imoacted  at least 01 month before land clearance. If PAP is
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 54



I~~~~~~SSI
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                   Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
in the urban area                          for   full  areas  of  impacted requested for cutting affected trees, PMIB will pay
and 100 m2 in the                          house/building.                  money for   this work. PAP has right for using
rural area).                               - No compensation for land.      salvageable trees.
- Rehabilitate land after the project - Full compensation for impacted house  and
construction by contractors.     allowances to PAPs at least 03 months before land
,                                                         clearance.
Tree and fruit tree              - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
- Compensation for affected trees  RCs
and fruit trees at the replacement  - Cleared residential could be reused with restricted
cost.
.                    ~~~~~~~~purposes.
Allowances:-upss
Allowances:            - Finance available for compensation/
- relocating allowance of 30 kg of  rehabilitation and well information disclose/
rice equivalent per person per month  disseminate
in six months.
5    Temporary impact All   PAPs -do-          PAPs can    opt for one   of the  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and have                    followings:                      could be existed are regulated by Article 1- Item 3
or garden land in house/build              i) Remain their houses or building of Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th,
ROW.     Full or ing     and               in ROW       with the  conditions 2004 regarding the amendment of some article in
partial          trees, fruit              regulated by Article 1- Item 3 of No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999 on the
house/building   trees    in               Decree No.118/2004/ND-CP dated protection of the high voltage networks.
impacted and land ROW                      May   10th, 2004   regarding  the - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
outside of is not                          amendment of some     article in house in ROW or move out of ROW
sufficient    for                          No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
reorganizing  (less                         1999 on the protection of the high that compensation will be at replacement cost at
than                                       voltage    networks.     Subsidy the time of payment.
60 m2 in the urban                         allowance  for fireproof materials - Replacement land,  and resettlement sites
area and 100 m2 in                         and  lightning  arrestors for the development.
thi, r,rl m r02d                           oyictlntr hr      ai-r ii r_h development.
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 55



a .   a.,
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                   Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
the rural area)                            existing house/building; or ii) Cash - PAP receive
compensation   for  the   whole - PAPs receiving compensation will demolish the
residential area which PAP occupied impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
(not only for the impacted areas) and houses themselves.
properties associated with occupied             .                   .
land at replacement cost. Impacted  - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
land will be obtained by local PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
authorities; or ii) "Land for land" PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
with the same area  PAP occupied will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
and cash at replacement cost for the using salvageable trees.
affected assets associated with land. - Full compensation for land impacted house and
Land occupied by PAP will be allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
obtained by local authorities.   clearance.
- Compensation for affected trees - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
and fruit trees at the replacement RC(s
cost.                            - Cleared residential could be used with restricted
Allowances:                      purposes.
. elcaig llwac o   30 gof - Finance/ land  available  for compensation/
-.eoaigalwneo            0k      rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
rice equivalent per person per month disseminate.
in six months                    dseiae
fo  - PMB   consult with PAP who are eligible to
- Transportation  allowance   for rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
relocating PAP according to  the for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
Compensation Decree 22/1998 CPimlenao.
dated April 22, 1998 of GOV. implementation.
- Rehabilitation assistance if PAPs
permanently losing business or more
than 25% of their incomes.
- Incentive for relocating in a timely _
ResettlementAction Plan                                                  56



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                         Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati  Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
manner: 5,000,000 VND/HH
6   Permanent         All   PAPs -do-           For PAP losing productive land:  - Consultation  for PAP's   options  on  land
acquisition of land occupied                a  Land loss less than 25% of their compensation.
for         tower land    and                  total landholdings            - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
foundations,      properties                - Cash compensation for the lost area that compensation will be at replacement* cost at
substation    and associated               if    the  remaining  plot is still the time of payment.
access roads etc.  with  land               economically viable.             - Replacement land,     and resettlement sites
permanentl
y impacted                - Cash compensation for the whole development.
by  towers               impacted plot if the remaining plot - PAPs receiving compensation will demolish the
foundations               is not economically viable.      impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
, substation              - Cash compensation for properties houses themselves.
and access                associated with land             - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
roads etc.               h. Land loss equal or more than PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
25% of lseir total landholdings:  PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
25 APof their toptallandhol s t will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
followings:                using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation for impacted house   and
i)"Land for land" with the same area allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
and productive of impacted area if clearance.
the  remaining  plots  are  still..
economicviable and  for the whole - No award civil work contract before completion
impacted plots if  the remaining  of  compensation and reorganizing houses or
impaced pots f  theremaningrelocation.
plots are not economicviable.
- Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
ii) Cash for land at the replacement RCs
cost.
cost.                        - Finance/ land   available  for compensation/
- Compensation for trees and affected rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
fruit trees at the replacement cost.  disseminate.
Resettlement Action Plan                                                  57



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                          Feasibility Study
No     Type of loss    Applicati   Definition of       Compensation Policy                    Implementation Issues
on      entitled PAPs
- Rehabilitation assistance.     - PMB   consult with PAP who are eligible to
For  PAP losing Residential and rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
garden land:                     for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
- If remaining land is sufficient implementation.
for reorganizing (more than 60 m2. - PAPs will be granted with  Land Use Right
in the urban area and 100 m2 in the Certificate
rural area): Cash compensation for without payment of administrative fees.
lost area and assets associated with
land.
- If remaining land is not sufficient
for reorganizing:
PAP can opt for i) cash compensation
at replacement cost for land and
assets on land, or ii) "land for land"
compensation   for   the   whole
residential area which PAP occupied
(not only for the impacted areas) and
properties associated with occupied
land. For affected house and building,
the same entitlement to PAP    of
categories 3 or 4 or 5.
7   PAP   impacted  on All  PAPs -do-            (a) Temporary impact on business or - Full compensation for incomes lost to PAPs at
business  or other impacted                  other services.                  least 01 month before land clearance.
services          on business                Compensation for income lost in the  _ PivB consult with PAP who are eligible to
and   other               affected time                     rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
other sermanvices,                for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
other services.         ~implementation.
Rehabilitation assistance.
Resettlement Action Plan                                                   58



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                   Feasibility Study
APPENDIX 2: TABLE OF COMPENSATION QUANTITY
IN PHU YEN PROVINCE
Total
No.          Items           Unit   Quantity      Unit price
l                  .                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(VND)l
Costs for compensation                                       3,051,806,820
of houses and land fees.                                                 l
1   Compensation on houses,   2        551                        161,358,320
1   upgrading the earthwire  m                                        ,
2.  Eucalyptus               tree    20,946     20,000VND/tree    418,920,000
3.  Cashew                  tree        133     50,000VND/tree      6,650,000
4.  Fruit tree              tree      1,524   500,OOOVND/tree     762,000,000
5.  Paddy, crops                    146,359       1,500VND/m2     219,538,500
6. Natural forest            ha       11.52   20,000,OOOVND/ha    230,400,000
Cost for changing the
7. transfering  right   of   m2      20,213      54,000VND/m2    1,091,502,000
perpetual   acquisition
tower position
Cost for life stabilization
8.  for PAPs.              people        54   75,OOOVND/person     24,300,000
(6 people/household; rice                        x 6 months
3,000VND/kg)
9. Purchasing   land   for   m2         551    200,000 VND/HH     110,138,000
resettlement, class 3                              k= 1,0       (1
Displacement        of
10. impacted HHs to the new  HH           9  3,000,000 VND/HH       27,000,000
place                                                                    l
Costs for Compensation                                         30,518,068
H_   Committee I% (I)                                               30__518_068
Total    compensation
cost  of   Phu    Yen                                        3,082,324,888
l___ Province
Resettlement Action Plan                                            59



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                     Feasibility Study
COSTS FOR COMPENSATION IN KHANH HOA PROVINCE
Total
No.           Items            Unit    Quantity      Unit price
Costs for compensation                                         8,741,723170
of houses and landfees.
1   Compensation on houses,      2
upgrading the earthwire    m         5,100                       964,246,670
2.  Eucalyptus                 tree    50,615      30,000VND/tree  1,518,450,000
3.  Cashew                     tree      5,079    30,OOOVND/tree     152,370,000
4.  Fruit tree                 tree      10,642  250,OOOVND/tree   2,660,500,000
5.  Paddy, crops               m2      211,187       1,500VND/m2     316,780,500
6.  Natural forest             ha        23.38 20,000,OOOVND/ha      467,600,000
Cost for changing   the
7.  perpetual      acquisition  m2      27,132      54,000VND/m2    1,465,128,000
tower positionl
Cost for life stabilizafionl
8. for PAPs.              people       186 75,OOOVND/person                 I
8.  (6 people/household; nce  e                        x 6months
3,OOOVND/kg)             __.
Purchasing   land    for     2               200,000 VND/HH
9.  resettlement, class 3      m         5,100             k= 1,0   1,019,948,000
Displacement of impacted                            3,000,000
10. DipaeetHH[                              31           VN/H         93,000,000
HHs to the new place                                 VND/HH
Costs for Compensation
Committee 1%(I)
Total compensation cost
of Khanh Hoa Province                                          8,829,140,402
Resettlement Action Plan                                              60



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                  Feasibility Study
Total cost for RAP implementation for
Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV transmission line
No.                  Item                  Amount (VND)     Remarks
1 Compensation cost for Phu Yen province      3,082,324,888
2 Compensation cost for Khanh Hoa province    8,829,140,40 
3 Total compensation cost                   11,911,465,290
4 Cost for RAP establshment                    308,673,686
Total cost for compensation and RAP
5 establishment                             12,220,138,976
6 Management cost                              119,114,653
7 Supervision cost                             244,402,780
8 Contingency cost                           1,222,013,898
9 Total cost for implementation             13,805,670,30 7
Resettlement Action Plan                                           61



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                               Feasibility Study
Annex 3: Inventory of Project Affected People
Loss of                          Temp
Name of Head of    No. of                                                  Loss of Assets                      Loss of oOter assets                 Other Losses     orary
surve      Household       rn Hhold     Total    Land to be Loss as %  Number and type of  Structures Structure  Area of  Fruit trees          Eg.,                           Losse
y No.                                Landholding  Acquired m  of       lost structures  pennanent  s  residential lost Type  Paddy  Other  Tombs, well, Residence Business Income  s
Of Hhold in 2 MIl by Type  tota                     (M2)  texnporar land lost  and     area   (Specify)    etc.   (rented)  Lost   Loss   (speci
y (Mh)   (M)     Number     (M2)            (No. &type            _Y)
Mau Lam Bk village- Hoa Quang Bac commune- Phi HoA district- Phu Yen province
I    Nguyen Van Ly              4          200        20       10   house foundation                       20                                                   _
2    Nguyen Van That            4          200     13.94      6.97  cow shed                            13.94
3    Nguyen Dinh Han             5         200      8.28      4.14  pig shed                             8.28                                                           _      _
4     Nguyen Van Thoai           4         200        12         6  cow shed                               12
5    Le Van Thuan               4          200                      kitchen
Dinh Thai village-HoA Djnh Dong commune- Tuy Hoa district- Phu Yen province
6    NguyenL8                    1         200      22.5     11.25 1 temporarY house                        9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I  _ _ _ _ _ _  I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  cow shed  _____   13.5                                     _____ c s e1
MY Thnh Dong village- HoA Phong commune- Tuy Hoa district- Phu Yen province
house                                  78
7     TranThiDien               4          908       111     12.22  kitchen                                 7
________  ____|   _ | yard                                 26
.         5 l           1         1         1 ~~~~~~~lean-to                         6
8     TrAnCung                   5         200        26        13 |
_______                 _______ cow shed                                20                                                             _
9    NguyenHongThinh             7         608     11.17            house                                47.3
_ _________________   _______   __________  ________  _______   kiosk                               20.64   _______   _______   _______   _______kosk_20_6
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                          62



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                           Feasibility Study
.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~extra house        40                             01 well
10   Nguyen Thi An             3         200        92       46  kitchen                               106
brick yard                            36                   .
Phir6c Thinh village- HoA Phong commune- Tuy HoA district - Phu Yen province
11   Nguyen Van D9ong          7         750                     cow shed
12   NguyenNamHoA              6                                  o450  cw shed
_ _ _ _ pig  shed                              _ _ _ _                                              _ _
13   Nguy6n Hfru Th8ng         3         200
14   Nguyen Hfu Danh           6         750                     cow shed
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   p id   shed_  _  _   _ _ _ __            _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ __           _ _  _ _ _
cow shed
15   Nguyen Hfu Minh           2         750                     pig shed
toilet                                                                                           _
M   hanh   ong 2 village- H  Phong commune- Tuy ]oa district- Phu YEn province
16   LeVanMinh                 4         162                     kitchen
____ ____ ____ ____ __   ____ ___   ____ ___ le an -to__ _ __ _ _ ___      _ _ ___                              _ _ _ _ _ _ __       _ _ _
17   Vo Thi Phan               4         192                     cowshed
_______                       ~~~~~~~~pid  shed   _ _ _                   _ _ _                                        _ _           _ _
kitchen
18   Le Tan Vinh               8        1264                     lean-to
_________________                            ~~~~~~~cow   shed__ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Phurfc Thinh village- Hoa Binh 2 commue-Tuy HoA district- Phui Y& province
19   Nguy8riHfruNhi            4         576 |          _        _                _        _      _        _         _       _        _         _       _       _
guy   l     l           l        |        | ~~~~~~~     ~~      ~~lean-to  
20   Nguyen ThanhlIHien        4         700                     pig shed         _        _      _         _        _       _        _          _      _       _
Phui KhAnh village- HoA Tan Tay corimune- Tuy HoA district- Phui Yen province    |         |      |         |       |         |      |         |        |       |        =
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                      63



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                               Feasibility Study
21   Nguyn Vi Thanh              4         680   _                                    ____ e                                                           _      |  637          ____
22    Nguyen Van Hu6ng           5         200     57.37            yard                                   51                                                    _
_______  _________              ~~ ~~yard                              5 1                                        _ _  _                   _
rice paper house                      10.5
23    NguynVnSn                  7         200     14.25shed                                                18
Hoa Xuan Tay commune- Tuy HoA district- Phui Yen province                   _
24    Lrong NgQc Huyen           9      ,, 200        20        10  cow shed                               20                                            _       =      =       =
camp                                  17.5
25    T rangDinhLQng             3         200        50        25  kitchen                               22.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ av iary  1 0                            _ _ _     _
HAo Son village- HoA Xuin Namn comn e- Tuy Hoa district- Phi Yen province
26    Dang Thira                 5         200   _                                    _
27    Le Thi Tuyet               3         361   _                                    _        _      =       =
28    Vo Thi Thuy               2          211           |         | kitchen                     =                                                                      =       =
29    Huynh Thi Hi6ng            4         211           |          rear eaves                                                       =                   =       =       =      =
30   Nguyen Thi Hong Nff         3       427.5           |         | kitchen                     =                                                                      =       =
31    Nguyen Thi HoA             5         750                      _                          _      =  =
front lean-to
32    Dang Dinh L               4          200                      b        s
_______ ~ ~   ~ __ _ _             buffalo  shed              _ _ _   _ _  _             _ _ _                        _  _ _ _  _ _
33    Phan Tbanh Hieu            3         152   _                 f
front lean-to
34    Phan Thanh ThAo           4       189.75
_______        _____     ~~kitchen_                                                                           _  _
35   Nguyen Van Hieu             6                       f
Co MA village- Van Tho commune- Van Ninh district- Khainh HoA province
36 D|   ng DOcHun                7         200        201       10 |cowshed                                20 |
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                          64



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                               Feasibility Study
37    Tran Van Danh              5         200        12        6   cow shed            =       _=         12                        =                  =        =      =      =
38   Nguyen Van Hien            5          693                      kitchen                                                                                      .
39   Nguyen C8ng Hieu            5         100
40    D.ng Ba                    2         100  _          _       =   =
41    Tran Th Nam                5         500     24.75      4.95  cow shed                             24.75                                                          = _
42    Tran GAm                  10         500        27       5.4  cow shed                               27                                                           =      =
43    Nguyn oCn                  3      '2.850        12       0.4  cow shed           =_=                 12                        =                   =       =      =      =
Van Phu6c commune- Van Ninh district- KhAnh Hoa Drovince
44   Nguyen Van Chin             3         200 |
45    ThanThiDinh               4          200 |
46    Nguyen Vn Luc              8       6.250 |
house                                  45
47    DoThanhD6ng                5         500        71      14.2  kitchen                                 18
________________                     _                        |  cow   shed                             8  |
r    E        I~~house          T                      45t                              01 TowellI       I       T                    I
48    Nguyen Thi Mai             2         200     60.75     30.37  house                                  4                                0 well
_______        ~~pig shed                 _   __    15.75                              _ _ _  _            _  _    _ _
49    Ph4mThiLam                 6         300        39        13  house             _        _           39                               01 well
house 1                                22                               01 well
house 2                               16.5
50   NguyenThuLim               7        1,000        98       9.8  frontlean-to                          17.5
kitchen                               10.5
__________              ~~~~~cow  shed             __ _ _     31.5
house                                20.25
51   TrAnNgQc Dfc               2          200     42.75     21.37  front lean-to                        11.25
I rear lean-to              ____ |_   11.25  |        1                                                    ___
[52    Dinh Van Dftng             3        3.000       42       1.4 | cow shed        T  _     I_     r_     42 T         I                  _ r      T                     _ I  I
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                          65



Tuy Hda- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                            Feasibility Study
HOi Khanh village- Van KbAnh commune- Van Ninh district- Khanh HoA pronce
camp                                17.5
53   TrAn Hat                  4         600      52.5     8.75  cow shed                               5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~aviary  _  _ _30                _  _  __                                _ _   _  _
camp                      ~~~~~~~~27.5
54   Nguy&n Mai                7         200     29.75    14.87  Pamp                                2.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ aviary  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 .2 5   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
55   Ha Van A                  7         600        24        4  cow shed                              24                                                         _
Su6i    village- Vnln KhAnh commune- Vn Ninh district- KhAnhHoA province
56   Nguye-n Chuit             9         200                     pig shed
_ _ _ _ cow   shed__              __                                        _ _ ___            _ _
house
57   L Van TuAn                3         200                     pig shed
I _ _ __  _ _ _I_ __     _ _cow                                    shed       _ _ _ __                                     _  _
58   V6 Thi Nam                7         200                     kitchen
59   NguyenNgoc Kim            5         100                     kitchen
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   pig  ~~sh ed   _ _ _ __                                _ _ __             _ _
60   Nguyen Thi Kim Anh        7         200                     kitchen                                                                        _____
61   ThAiThanh                 4         100                     toilet
62   D8 Kim Dinh               8         150                     kithen
bath-room        ____                                        _____                       _ _
63   D6 Tran Thuang            4          50                     aviary
64   HuynhhThjHJieu            3        1,500       40     2.66   cow shed        ____40 |
TAn Dan village- Van Tlhng commune- Vgn Ninh district- Khanh Hoa province
I                   l        l           |         l        | house                   J            32
65   Duang Cng Ly              3         200      49.5    24.75  kitchen                               10
| cow  shed       _        1     |    7.5  |         _        _       _         _        _      _      I
Resettlement Action Plan                                         ,                            66



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                              Feasibility Study
Suoi Luon village- Van Thang commune- Van Ninh district - Khanh Hoa province
66   TranChin            |      5_ |      200 |          |         | cowshed
67   TrAnCon             |    _2 |        200 |
Trun Dung 3 village- V@n Binh commune- V,an Ninh district- Kh nh Hoa province
house                               26.24
68   NguyenThiNhi               I         200     36.24     18.12  cow shed                               10
Binh Loc I village- Van Binh commune- Van I9inh district- Khanh Hoa province                                                                                          _
69   Truong Khac Lenh                             .                house                               32.86
4         760     72.26       9.5  kitchen                              15.9
Tan Phu village- Van Phii commune- Van Ninh district- KhAnh Hoa province                                                                                                               I
house                                  60
70   TranVanNamt                4         200       102       51   lean-to                                36
_______                         ______     |cow   shed     ____|_6                  |
71   NguyenThiTha        |      2         200 |
72   Nguyen Thi kim Nga         6         200                      kitchen         I          I      I       I
73   Nguy8n HfuTun m            2         200 T           _       I  T             I                                                                            _ 
74_ Dang Thi Hoa                5         206 T         I        T                 ITTII
75   Nguyen C6n                 5         200                      yard
__________________   ________                  ~~cow   shed_               _ ___                                                           _ _
kitchen
76   NguyenM,ap                 3         200
Vinh Hue village- V,an Phui commune- Van Ninh district- KhAnh Hoa province
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                         67



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                               Feasibility Study
main house                           45.6                              01 water
extra house                            39                              tub
77   Ho ThanhDAng               7          200    196.11       98   kitchen                              24.8
lean-to 1                           19.76
lean-to 2                           10.95
cement yard                            56
78   Phu'ngMinh TuAn            10        1630        56       3.4  cow shed                               56
Nguyen Van DOng            2        3,500        12     0.34   gardem house                           12
Van Lunog commune- Van Ninh district- Khanh Hoa province
80   PhamVanHfing        110            13,000        24 [    0.18  cowshed         I _              |     24           _   ==                          =       =      =       =
Xufn Tay village- V,n Hung conimune- Van Ninh district- KhAnh Hoa province
house                                  48
81   D AuKhc Ky                 8          200        94       47    ithen                                  6
pig shed                               14
_______  _________    _______   cow   shed                 _  __1        6            _   _    _  _ _
82   DAu Thi Sang               4          200                      house
kitchenn
kitchen
83   LDong Dinh Thu              5         200          |              shed
house                               42.75
84   Trn The Quyen               5         200     126.1     63.05  kitchen                                28
pig shed                               6.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ard_  _  _ _   48 75   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __yard  4 8 .7 5  .  .  .
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                          68



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                                Feasibility Study
house                                34.56
kitchen                               11.4
85    Trinh Dinh Cr              6         200      108.2      54.1  pig shed                                14
aviary                                8.64
yard                                  39.6
Ngoc San village- Ninh An commune- Ninh HoA district- KhAnh Hoa  vince
po  house                         -35
86   Nguyen Thi Thanh            6        3,500       39       1.11  house                                    4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _            ~~~~~~aviary                             4                     _  _  __                _
87    Nguyen Gi6                 5          500                                                                                                                         _
88   La Van Tu                   7        4,000                      pig shed
I _________________   ________   __________   ________          cow   shed
89   N8ng Van Di6m               4        3,840                      kitchen                  _                                                                           _
Lac     village- NinhAn commune- Ninh HoA district- Khanh HoA province                                                                                                          _
house                                   72                               01 well
kitchen                                9.6
extra house                          18.04
90    HuynhThjNhu                4        12830    216.16      1.68  lean-to                               32.4
pig shed                              13.8
bathroom                                 3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ y ar'd  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ 6 7 .3 2   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Phfr Son village- Ninh Trnig commune- Ninh HoA district- Khnh Ho province 
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                           69



Y                                                                        * .                                                                   S 
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                              Feasibility Study
house                               59.04
kitchen                                15
91   Nguyen Quanh               6        3,500   176.38      5.04  extra house                            36
lean-to                                1 8
pig shed                               6
__yard                               42.34
92   Hoang Xuan Y               7         200        16        8   cow shed                               16 6
Tan Ninh village- Ninh Trung commune- Ninh Hoa district- Khanh Hoa province
93   Truang Nggc ThiEn          8         200        55      27.5  camp                                  35
_cow shed                             20
house                                47.5
94   Phan Anh                   7         414      62.5      15.1  kitchen                                15
Ninh Than commune- Ninh Hoa district- KhAnh HoA province
95   BiLi Vn Luan               3       122.85       5 1    41.51  c casp           _                      6 35
l    l        | ~~~~cow shed                          1 16_
HoA Thu4n village- Ninh Binh commune- Ninh HoA district- Khanh HoA province
96   Tran TAn Tai               9         2          1         6   watch-tower  on                        12
l   |  9 |   200 |   12 |      6 | the    mounain                         12
Van Khe village - Ninh L8c commune- Ninh HoA district- KhAnh Hoa province
97   HA Thj Chirong                                                house                             45.566
3         200   4551.56     25.78
_ _ _ _ kitchen       _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _                                          _  _ _ _ _ _
98   HoANgscAnh                 5         200 |           |        kitchen           _        _      _                    ==                          =       =      =       =
house                                  72
99   TrAnNgoc Lg                9         200      165.6           rear lean-to                           36
Resettlem  ent___  _ _____ ______  ___  _ ______ _____  _  yar Action_ Plan__                   5706  ____yard_57_6
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                         70



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                                Feasibility Study
Phong Thanh village- Ninh Loc commune- Ninh HoA district- KhAinh Hoa pronce
house 1                                 56                               Gitng (1
house 2                                 54                               cii)
yard                                    42
100  Tran VAn Ttrng              7        1,350    220.92    16.36   kitchen                             48.72
rear lean-to                           4.2
pig shed                                10
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ a v iary  _ _ _ _6   _ _ _ _ _ _ __      _  _                  _  _ _
Van Thu$n village- Ninh ich commune- Ninh Hoa district- Klinh Hoa pronnce
101  PhanVanHiSn                 5         200       34.2      17.1  he                                    22S8
_________________   _______                     ~~~~~~lean-to     __ _ _    _ _ _     11.4             _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _    _  _ _
house                                34.96
102  Nguyen Thi Thu              5         200      40.96    20.48   kitchen
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________   ________   ~aviary  _ _ _ _6                                                               _ _ _
main house                              34
103  Tran Thi DAo               10         200        62        31   kitchen                                24
________________   _______                     pig  ~~~~~~shed   __  _ _  _  _ _4
house                                49.92
104  Huynh Thi Kim Quy           5        337.5     79.92    23.68   kitchen                                  4
pig shed                                 5
house 2                                 21
105  Tran Van Tuan               5        3034
Ninh ich commune- Ninh Hoa district- Khanh Hoa province
106|Vo Thi Tuyet Mai  |||Iwatch-tower                                      on
6          200        16        8   the    mountain                         16
Vmnh Luang commune- Nha Trang city- Khanh Hoa province
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                           71



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                      Feasibility Study
house                           22.09
107  Nguyn VknLong                    200     33.34   16.67  aviary                              9
_______   __________   _______  kitchen                       2.25                                    _ _ _   _ _ __        _ _
house
108  Le Quang Hfng          11        200                   front lean-to
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ k itch en_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __    _ _ _ _ _
Dac ,oc village- Vinh Phuaron commune- NhaTrang city - KhAnh HoA provinoce           _     24          .   5        _                                      _
house                             24.5
109  Nguyen Duc Dfng         3                               warehouse                          30
pig shed              _           150
110  Dig Van Sy              3        430     58.95   13.71  pig shed                         25.2
_ _______________   _______            _______           cow   shed                      33.75                                                           _
111  Le Dng                  5        200                                                                                                                    _
house                              20
112  HoVtnHing               4        200       40       20  front eaves                        12
___________________   ________   ________   lean -to                           8   _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _   _ _ _
11-3  LeTran                13        200       12        6  camp   on  the                     12
_____________            ______  ~ ~~~~~~~niomo tain  field   _ _ __                _  _                    _  _  _ _  _ __                 _
114  Nguyen Van Thep         7        250                   lean-to                                       _                                        _        _
115  Nguyen VnKhiem          5         196                   extra house
116  Nguy&nVan Truxng                                        lean-to
6        844
117  Nguyen VRnGiAu          6         510   _ _ _   _ _ _    _  _ _ _  _ __                   _ _            _ _ _   _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _          _ _
Nhu Xuan village- Vmh Phuang commune- Nha  city- Kh6nh HoA province
1  ~~              1         house          1       1      1       1        1exrafh1u1
[ 18 NguyRnVstLeni     i onPan7 23605 |                                      _       _      _        _                _                      |
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                72



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                                Feasibility Study
house                                   27
-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~extra house     34.65
119   D06Tuoc                    4        2,010      82.9       4.1  extchen                              34.65
kitc-hen                             14.85
aviary                                 6.4
house
120  DoAn Van Son                3
______    onmamental plant
121   Doan Van Trang             4                                   house
________ omnamental plant
house
122   Le Minh Vit                4         230
________  ____________                     rear lean-to
house
123  NguyenThiNga                7         240                       kitchen
k itchen
house
124  L8 Hong                     4         200                       extra house
-                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pig shed
____________           ________  rear lean-to
125  Nguyen Van Tan              4          102                      house
____________________   ____________             ~~rear  lean-to
house
126  Le Thi Muon                 6          64                       kitchen
_______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______Dig   shed                             _  _ _  _ _  _ _
127  NguyennVanTien              4          55                       house
kitchen                                                   _                                            _
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                           73



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                               Feasibility Study
128    NgQggc Dieu        8         52                 camp   on  the
Nguy&i                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mountain field________
toilet
129 Le Hong Scn           4         84
aviary__                               _    __  _  _  _ _
house                           70
toilet                          7.5
130 BiiiThanh Chi         4        225    103.5    46  aviary                          7.5
front lean-to                   14
_________   _______   ~w ater  tub                  4.5   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _    _ _   _ _
131 NguyP n NgQc          4                             aviary
_________           ~~ ~~pig  shed__                               _ _ _  _ __                  _ __         _ _
house
132 Hu~nhfMc Nhon         4                             pig shed
cow shed                                                                  ___
lean-to
133   Phan Ng9c           6                             kitchen       _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _                _ _
134   D 6   O             7             __ _ _  _ _ _ _ house__          _ __                 _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ __    _  _ _ _ __   _ _
Xuan Lac village Vnh NgQC commune- Nha Trang ciy - Khinh HoA province  _      _
rear house
Resettlement Action Plan                                                        74



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                             Feasibility Study
Annex 4: Entitlements of Project Affected People
Compensation for Land  Compensation for Structures  Compensation for Crops &  Compensation for Other Assets
Survey  Name of Head of                                                Trees                                  Total in Dong
Soe         Housead| Unit                                                                            Unit Price
No.   Household    ~~~~Quantity Price Entitlement Quantity Unit Price  Entfitement in Quantity Unit Entitlement Quantity in Dong  Entitlement in
Sq.   Sq.            Sq.  Sq. Meters  Dog       Unit  Price in Dong  Unit           Dong
Meters Meters in Dong  Meters          Dn              in*
_______  __________      ~~ ~~Dong  I__ __ _
1     Nguyen Van Ly             _                 20   35,000    700,000        _                                          700,000
2     NguyeinVan That                          13.94   50,000    697,000          .                                        697,000
3     Nguyen Dinh Han                           8.28   50,000    414,000                                                   414,000
4     Nguyen Van Thoai                            12   50,000    600,000                                                   600,000
S      Le Van Thuan                                8            1,470,000                                                 1,470,000
6     Nguyen Le                                    9  200,000   1,800,000                      13.5   50,000   675,000    2,475,000
7     Trabn Thi Dien                              78  500,000  39,000,000                        26   35,000   910,000
78                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43,410,000
_____                                        7   500,000  3,500,000
8     TrAn Cung                                    6  100,000    600,000      _                  20   50,000  1,000,000   1,600,000
9     Nguyen Hong Thinh      _                  47.3  450,000  21,285,000                     20.64  450,000  9,288,000  30,573,000
10    Nguyen Thi An                               40  180,000  7,200,000                         36   20,000   720,000   11,000,000
_____                                        16  180,000  2,880,000                         2             200,000
11    Nguyen Vn DAong                                                                            14            200,000     200,000
12    Nguyen Nam Hoa                                                                              5            474,080     948,160
_____  _____  _____    _____  ________  __________                        ~~~~~~           ~~~~ ~~~~5 474,080   _ _ _ _ _ _
13    Nguyen HwTu Th6ng                                                                                                          0
Resettlement Action Plan                                                      75



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
14    Nguyen Huru Danh                                                                                                      948,160
_____                                _______     ~~ ~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~3 __ _ _ _ 474,080
6            200,000
15    Nguyen Hnuu Minh                                                                            6             200,000     874,080
9 _    _     474,080
16    Le Van Minh                                6.25           1,225,000                                                  5,479,080
38            4,254,080
17    V Thi Phan                                  10              200,000                                                   400,000
9             200,000
13.5           2,049,080
18    Le Tan Vinh                                 27              200,000                                                  3,929,080
__                                          12            1,680000_
19    Nguyen Hiuu Nhi                                                                                                             0
20     Nguyen Thanh Hien                          26            3,267,080                                                  3,467,080
.  ___             8             200,000                 .
21     Nguyen Van Thanh                                                                                                            0
22     Nguyen Van Hu6ng                         63.75  500 000  31,875,000   _                    51   3500    1,785000   33,660,000
23     Nguyen Van San                            10.5  140,000   1,470,000                        18   50,000   900,000    2,370,000
24     LIoxng NgQc Huyen                          20    50,000   1,000,000                                                 1,000,000
25     Trtrang Dinh Long                         17.5  180,000  3,150,000                         10   50,000   500,000    7,025,000
22.5  150,000   3,375,000
26     DangThiia         l       l     l        l      l      l           l          |            16   50,000   800,000      800,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                       76



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                            Feasibility Study
27    Le Thi Tuyet         ===                                                                                                 0
28    Vo Thi Thuy                              10.75            474,080                                                  474,080
29    Huynh Thi Hu6ng                             9             474,080                                                  474,080
30    Nguyen Thi Hong                            5.4           1,990,280                                                1,990,280
31    Nguyen Thi Hoa                                                                                                           0
32   DIng Dinh Le        .                      12.4            474,080                      14.85           200,000      674,080
33    Phan Thanh Hieu                                                                                                          0
34    Phan Thanh Thao      =     =               16             474,080   =     =               9           2,154,080   2,628,160
35    Nguyen Van Hi8u                                                                                                          0
36    DOng DOc Hung           _                  20   50,000   1,000,000                                                1,000,000
37    Tran Van Danh                              12   50,000    600,000                                                   600,000
38    Nguyen Van Hien                             6            1,050,000                                                1,050,000
39    Nguyen Cong Hieu                                                                                                         0
40    DEng Ba                                                                                                                  0
41    Tran Thi Nam         =     =             24.75  50,000   1,237,500                                                1,237,500
42    Tran G iam                                 27   50,000   1,350,000                                                1,350,000
43    Nguyen Con                                 12   50,000    600,000                                                 - 600,000
44    Nguyen Van Chin                                                                                                           0
45    Thn Thi Dinh                                                                                                              0
46    Nguy&n Van Luc                                                                                                            0
47     Do Thanh D5)ng                            45   180,000  8,100,000                         8   50,000   400,000   11,740,000
18  180,000  3,240,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                      77



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
48     Nguyen Thi Mai                             45  220,000   9,900,000                                       200,000   10,887,500
_________________  . 15.75  50,000  787,500
49     Pham Thi Laim                              39   180,000  7,020,000                                       200,000   7,220,000
22  500,000  11,000,000
16.5  450,000  7,425,000
50     Nguyen Thu Lam.                           17.5  450,000  7,875,000                                       200,000  29,965,000
10.5  180,000   1,890,000
31.5   50,000  1,575,00                                          _
20.25  150,000   3,037,500
51     Tran Ngoc DOTc                           11.25  150,000  1,687,500                                                  6,412,500
11.25  150,000  1,687,500
52     Dinh Van Dfing                             42   50,000   2,100,000                                                  2,100,000
17.5  140,000  2,450,000
53     Tran Hat                                    5   50,000     250,000                                                  4,200,000
_______________30      50,000   1,500,000
54     Nguyen Mai                                27.5  140,000  3,850,000                                                  3,962,500
._______________                 2.25   50,000    112,500                            .
55     Ha Van A                                   24   50,000   1,200,000                                                  1,200,000
5 6    Nguyen Chut                                                                                              200,000     400,000
_____  ________                       ________  ~~ ~~~200,000   _ _ _ _ _
57     LWm |TuAu                                 8.75  50,000     911,580                                       474,080 
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ___   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   __ ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   ___ ___ 4 7 4 ,0 8 0  1, 5 97 40
58     Vo Thi Nam0
Resettlement Action Plan                                                       78



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                          Feasibility Study
Nguy~~~~~~~n Ngoc I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~im ~~~1,314,080
5 i9   Nguye   gc Kim                                                                                               2,488, <| 1640S0|24 
_____          __________  _____                            ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~1,174,080 2, 8 16
60    NguyenThi Kim Anh         _             17.5           2,082,500                                              2,082,500
61    Thai ThAinh                              1.5            824,080                                                824,080
62    Do Kim Dinh                               10           1,365,000                    2.25            630,000   1,995,000
63    Do' Tran Thuong   .                                                                   10            200,000    200,000
64    Huynh Thi Hieu                           40   50,000   2,000,000                                              2,000,000
32 400,000  12,800,000
65    Duang Cong Ly                             10 300,000   3,000,000                                             16,175,000
7.5  50,000    375,000
66    Tran Chin                              29.25            200,000                                                200,000
67    Tran Con                                   _                                                                         0
68    Nguyen Thi Nhi                         26.24 450,000  11,808,000                                             12,308,000
10   50,000   500,000    _
32.86 350,000  11,501,000
69    Trto-ng Khac Lenh                       15.9 450,000   7,155,000                                             19,831,000
I  1 _         23.5   50,000  1,175,000
60 450,000 27,000,000
70    Tran Van Nan                              36 300,000  10,800,000                                             38,100,000
6   50,000    300,000                          _
71    Nguyen Thi Tha                                                                                    _                  0
72    Nguyen&T  Kim Nga                      13.75            474,080                                                 474,080
Resettlement Action Plan                                                   79



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                            Feasibility Study
73    Nguyen Huu Tuan      =     ==                                             =                                              0
74    Dang Thi Hoa                                                                                                             0
75    Nguyen C6n                                                                                6            200,000     200,000
76    Nguyen Map                                  8             474,080                         4            200,000     674,080
45.6  550,000 25,080,000
39  550,000 21,450,000
24.8 300,000   7,440,000
77    Ho Thanh DOng                            19.76 300,000   5,928,000                                               65,443,000
10.95 300,000   3,285,000
56   35,000   1,960,000
2  150,000    300,000
78     Phung Miah Tuan                           56   50,000   2,800,000                                                2,800,000
79    Nguyen Van D6ng                            12  140,000   1,680,000                                                1,680,000
80    Pham Van Hung                              24   50,000   1,200,000                                                1,200,000
48  140,000   6,720,000
81    DAu Khc Ky                                 16  140,000   2,240,000                                               10,460,000
14   50,000    700,000
16   50,000    800,000
82    Dau Thi Sang                             30.66            474,080                                                   948,160
14.7             474,080
83    Luang Dinh Thu                             15 _           474,080         =              6.4           200,000     674,080
A AA                                42.75 500,000 21 375,000
84    TrAn The Quyen                           42    5000     21,37,000                                                27,331,250
Resettlement Action Plan__ _____ ____________    28   140,000  3,920,000                                    _
Resettlement Action Plan                                                      80



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                        Feasibility Study
6.6  50,000    330,000
48.75  35,000  1,706,250
85                                          34.56  140,000  4,838,400
11.4 140,000  1,596,000
Trinh Dinh C*                            14  50,000    700,000                                             8,952,400
8.64  50,000    432,000
39.6  35,000  1,386,000 1                                __   _
86    Nguyen TN Thanh                         35  140,000  4,900,000                                             5,100,000
4   50,000   200,000        _
87    Nguyen Gi6                                         I                                                              0
88    La Van Tu                                15            474,080                                               948,160
9            474,080               .
89    N6ng Van Diem                           17             474,080                                               474,080
72 550,000 39,600,000
9.6 550,000  5,280,000
18.04 550,000  9,922,000
90    Huynh Thi Nhu                          32.4 140,000  4,536,000                      23            200,000  64,234,200
13.8  50,000    690,000
3 550,000   1,650,000
67.32  35,000  2,356,200
59.04 550,000 32,472,000
91    Nguyen Quanh                             15 450,000   6,750,000                                            62,603,900
36 450,000  16,200,000          1    _        1        1        1
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 81



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                        Feasibility Study
18 300,000   5,400,000
6   50,000   300,000
.______ 42.34   35,000  1,481,900                   _
92    Hoang Xuan Y                             16  50,000    800,000                                               800,000
93    Truong NgQc Thien                       35  100,000  3,500,000                                             4,500,000
.  .      .            20  50,000  1,000,000    .                 .                  .
94    PhamnAnh                               47.5 450,000 21,375,000                                            23,475,000
.____  _________________  _____       15  140,000  2,100,000
95    Bui Van Lua.n                           35  140,000  4,900,000                                             5,700,000
_____  _____           16  50,000    800,000
96    Tran Tan Tai                             12  50,000    600,000                                               600,000
97  HaThi Chuoang                  45.56 500,000 22,780,000                                             23,620,000
_____              _____                  6 140,000     840,000                                            .     -
98    Ho;Ngoc Anh                           30.96          3,381,000                                             3,381,000
72 500,000 36,000,000
99    Tram Ngoc Le                             36  140,000  5,040,000                                           43,056,000
_____     57.6  35,000  2,016,000 _
56 500,000 28,000,000
54 500,000 27,000,000
100   Tran Van Tu6ng                          42   35,000  1,470,000                       5           200,000  82,268,000
48.72 500,000 24,360,000
4.2 140,000    588,000
10   50,000   500,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                 82



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                           Feasibility Study
6   25,000    150,000             _
101   Phan Van IHie'n                         22.8 400,000   9,120,000
101  PhanV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nHien ~~~~~~~~~9,405,000
_____                            11.4  25,000    285,000
34.96  500,000  17,480,000
102   Nguyen Thi Thu                          1815   50,000  90,750,000                                            108,380,000
.____       _______     6   25,000    150,000     .                  .
34 450,000   15,300,000
103   Tran Thi Dao                              24  140,000  3,360,000                                              18,860,000
___.         _4             50,000    200,000
49.92 450,000  22,464,000
104   Hu4nhThi Kim Qui                           4  140,000    560,000                                              31,674,000
5   50,000    250,000
21  400,000  8,400,000                                    _
105   Tran Van Tuan                                                                                                         0
106   V6 Thi Tuyet Mai                          16   50,000    800,000                                                 800,000
22.09  140,000  3,092,600
107   Nguyen Van Long                            9   50,000    450,000                                               3,857,600
2.25  140,000   315,000
20             474,080
108   Le Quang Himg                           15.75          2,154,080                                               4,782,240
15           2,154,080
109   Nguy,n D    -cDfing                     24.5  400,000  9,800,000
109__ Nguyen_____________ Ouc__ Dung_________    30  140,000  4,200,000 00,000                                      21,500,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                    83



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
= _____________   _   =     =130                 50,000   7,500,000  _     _      =       =
110   DOng Van Sy                               25.2   50,000   1,260,000                                                 2,947,500
33.75   50,000   1,687,500
III   L8 Dng                                                                     _                                               0
20  400,000   8,000,000
112   Ho VanHung                                  12  140,000   1,680,000                                                10,800,000
8  140,000   1,120,000
113   L8 Tran             _____        _______    12   50,000    600,000        1            1                              600,000
114   Nguyen Van Thep                            15.9            474,080                                                    474,080
115   Nguyen Van Khiem                            15             474,080                                                    474,080
116   Nguyen Van Trtng                          21.6             474,080                                                    474,080
117   Nguyen Van Giiu                                                                                                             0
'x                         ~~~~~~~68.25      474,080
118   Nguyen Van L(i                                                                                                        948,160
22.5             474,080          -
27  500,000  13,500,000
119   Do Tuac                                  34.65  450,000  15,592,500                                                36,717,500
14.85  500,000  7,425,000
6.4             200,000                      _
120   Doon Van Son                               83.5            474,080                                                    948,160
144             474,080             1
121   Don Van Trang                            71.81             474,080                                                    948,160
.____  ___ __ __ __ __ __   _ __   _ __120  474,080
Resettlement Action Plan                                                       84



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                      Feasibility Study
55               474,080
122    LEMinhVic                                                                                                                        3,414,080
_____  _____        ~3 3   _ _ _   2,940,000                          _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
64               474,080
123    Nguyen ThiNgi                                    - 4              474,080                                                        2,680,320
10.56               474,080
. _____  .__________________         _____               4     .        1,258,080                               _
42.56               474,080
124    Le Hong                                       34.02               47,080                                                         2,829,240
9               474,080
10.5             1,407,000
125    NguyenVAnTaln                                  72.5               474,080                                                          948,160
1                       1~~_ _ ___ _  _    16.5              474,080               1                                     1_ _ _ ___ _ _ _
17.5             2,380,000
126    Le Thi MuOn                                       8             1,260,000                                                        4,114,080
_ __ ___       9               474,080           _
127    Nguyen Van Tien                                25.2               474,080                                                        2,042,080
_____           _____          _______   ~~ ~~~7.48       1,568,000                                 _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
128    NguyenNgoc Dieu                               21.62               474,080                                                          474,080
129    LIHoAng Son                                       6             1I11,250,000
_         ~~~1 2              00             -      _
70   500,000  35,000,000                                                       45,925,000
130    BuiiThanh Chi                                   7.5  500,000    3,750,000
______                        _  _   __                4.5   150,000     675,000        85
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                85



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                     Feasibility Study
7.5               200,000
14  450,000    6,300,000
131    Nguyen Ngoc                                  19.25             1,927,800                                                       2,401,880
_____ _____ ____ _   _ _ _ _   __ __   __ ____ 15    4 74 ,0 80                                        _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
24.5             2,940,000
132    Huynh Dfic NIhn                               38.5             3,062,500                                                       7,577,500
I_____                 ______   ______  ________  13.5  _  _     1,575,000              ___
133    Phan Ngoc                                       25             3,974,080                                                       5,024,080
6             1,050,000
134    Dox 6                                         49.5             6,441,580           _      _                                    6,441,580
135    Hu4nh Tan Vi                                  67.8               474,080                                                         948,160
_____  ___ ___          _   _  __               20.8              474,080                   .
Resettlement Action Plan                                                               86



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                Feasibility Study
Annex 5: Socio-Economic Household Data Sheet of Project Affected People
No.  Address of Household  Name of Household Member  Ethnic                ~~~~~Occupation and         Estimated Total
No. Address of Household             Name of Household Member  Sex            Gpe Ethnic  Education  Sources of Income  Employm  Income per Year
Age   upent                                              (VND)
I                                  Nguyen Van L             male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture,                16,000,000
_______  ~ ~  ~   1   school        blacksmith    ____
2                                  Nguyen Van That           male             Kin     secondary      agriculture                 12,000,000
Mau   Lim   Bac village- Hoa                                                       school
3   Quang Bac commune - Phfi Hoa Nguyen Dinh H3n             male             Kinh    secondary      agculture                   13,500,000
district- Phu6 Yen province                              male                     secondary
4                                  Nguyen Van Thoai                           Kinh      school    agriculture, cadres            9,800,000
5                                  Le Vain Thua.n            male             Kinh   high school   agnculture, hired             4,000,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______   ~~~~ ~~lab o r   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Dinh ThAi village- Hoa Dinh                              male
6   Dong    commune-   Tuy   H6a Nguyen Le                                    Kinh      school        agnculture                 20,000,000
district- Phi Yen province
7                                  Tran Thi Dien             female           Kinh     college    agriculture, cadres            14,000,000
8   My Thanh Mung village- H6a     Tran Cung                 male             Kinh                   agriculture                 6,000,000
9   distrct- Phu Yen provinceY     Nguy&n Hong Thinh          male            Kinlh    primary     agculture, trade              45,000,000
10                                 Nguyen Thi An             female           Kinh    secondary       agriculture                17,000,000
Nguyen                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~school            ___
11                                 Nguyen Van DA              male            Kinh     primary    agriulture                     20,000,000
01ng                                    school                       ___
Phu6c  ThAnh village - H6a
12   Phong commune - Tuy H6a Nguyen Nam HoA                   male            Kinh     school      agriculture, trade            30,000,000
.      district - Phui Yn province                                                        scool
13                                 Nguyen Hiu Th6ng           male            Kinh    secondo      agriculture, mason            10,000,000
Phuac  Thanh village  - Hoa                                                       secondary      agriculture,
14   Phong commune - Tuy Hoa Nguyen Hiuu Danh                 male            Kinh      school         carpenter                 30,000,000
_ district - Phu Yen province                                                   I                               II_
Resettlement Action Plan                                                          87



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9                                                                                          *6
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
15                                Nguyen Huu Minh           male           Kinh     primary       agriculture                15,000,000
school
16                                Le Van Minh               Nam            Kinh    secondary   agriculture, trade,           25,000,000
.       My Thanh D6ng 2 village - H6a                                                  school        carpenter
-                                             ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~primary  arclue3,0,0
17   Phong commune - Tuy H6a V6 Thi Phan                   female          Kinh                   agriculture                30,000,000
district - Phui Yen province                                                    school
18                                Le Tan Vinh               male           Kinh      school     agriculture, trade           30,000,000
19   Phu6c Thinh village - Hpa Binh Nguyen Huru Nhi         male            Kinh     college   agriculture, cadres           30,000,000
20   2 commune - Tuy H6a district - Nguyen Thanh Hien       male            Kinh   high school    agriculture,               25,000,000
___Phi- Yan province                                                                              carpenter______
21                                 Nguyen Vn Thanh          male            Kinh    secondary      agriculture,              20,000,000
Phul Khiinh village - H6a Tain _________school                                                 carpenter
22   Tay commune - Tuy H6a district- Nguyn Van Hu6ng        male            Kinh_ high school   agriculture, trade           40,000,000
23   Phui Yen province             Nguyen Van Sai           male            Kinh    secondary      agriculture                6,000,000
_____  ______________________________                            ~~ ~~ ~~~school
24   Da Dung village - Hoa Xuan Tay  Luang Ngoc Huyen       male            Kinh     primary       agriculture               20,000,000
_______   school                                20___ _000__ __ _000__
commune - Tuy Hoa district -                                                     schoo primaiy  agriculture
25   Phui Yen province             Truang Dinh Long         male            Kinh     srima         agriculture                4,100,000
26   Hao Son village - Hoa Xuan    Dang Thira               male   .                 primary       agriculture                4,000,000
Nam   commune   - Tuy   Hoa                                            Kinh     school      4_000_000
27   district - Phi Yen province   Le Thi Tuyet            female           Kinh     school          trade                    3,600,000
28                                 Vo Thi Thuy             female           Kinh     primay        agriculture                8,000,000
female  ~ ~      high school
29                                 Huynh Thi Huong         female    =      Kinh   high school       trade                    10,000,000
30                                 Nguyen Thi Hong Nu       female          Kinh    secondary   agriculture, trade            14,000,000
31                                 Nguyen Thi Hoa          female           Kinh     school        agriculture                7,000,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                       88



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                     Feasibility Study
32                                    Dang Dinh Le                male             Kinh     secondary       cadres, trade                 8,400,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ sch o o l   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
33                                    Phan Thanh Hieu             male             Kinh      primary        agnculture                    5,000,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ sc h o o la g i u t r5, 0 0 0
34                                    Phan Thanh Thao             male             Kinh     secondary          trade                      7,000,000
35_________Van_______        male    =_       Kinh      school
35                          ,,        lE)aNguycn  Hiun             male            Kinh      primary      agnculture, rock                9,000,000
38__                                                            _____ Van Hien   female   Kinh  school      hirexploiter                  12,0000
male             K        secondary        agnculture                   15,000,000
36                                    Dang DB    Hi g_                             Kinh       school         agriculture                  10,000,000
37                                    Tran VTn Danh               male             Kinh     secondary     agriculture, hired              11,500,000
________   _______    ~school           labor        _ _  _ _
38                                    Nguyen Ga n m Hn           female            Kinh      prmary          hired labor                  12,000,000
_________              ~~~sch ool __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
39   Co   Ma   village    Van   Tho   Nguyen C6ng h               male             K        secondary        agriculture                  1,000,000
.... ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~    ~    _ __ _ _ __          _ _      schoo                                      .-__ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
45  Vcommune - V~n Ninh d      Nisi        en Van Chnml_ Kinh                               sechondar        agnculture                   15,000,000
40   KhAnh Ho& province               DAng Ba                     male             Khih      primary         agriculture                  10,000,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _sc h o o l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
41             Tr~~~~~n Tin N~~~~~m       female            K~~~~~~~h ~ primnary   agriculture, hired
41                                    Than Th,i Ninh             female            Kinh       school           labor                      11,000,000
42                                    TrANn GAam                  male             Kinh      primary      agncultue, hired                15,000,000
________   ______      ~school          labor
43                                    Nguyen Con                  male             Kinh      primary         agriculture                  7,000,000
N g u y~~~~~~~~~n ~~~sch                     o o l   _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _
V4n Phir6c commune - Van Ninh             V~                    ae    ~secondary                         agriculture                  1,0,0
district - Khinh HoA province    N  ye       Chnschool
46                                    Thf.n Thi Dinh             female            Kinh      fiinaiy           priest                     10,000,000
________               ~~~school
Ngye'  n Lvic           male             KiIIh    secondary        agricuture                   12,000,000
Nguy~~~~~~~~~n ~~~school
47 DR                                     Th&   D6ng              male             Kinh      primary         agriculture                      00,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _s c h o l   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __sc h o o l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Resettlement Action Plan                                                               89



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                               Feasibility Study
48                                 Nguyen Thi Mai           female                    secondary      agriculture                10,000,000
Nguy~~~~~~~~~n ~~~school____
49                                 Pham Thi Lam              female          Kinh                    agriculture                10,000,000
50                                 Nguyen Thu Lam            female          Kinh    secondary       agriculture                20,000,000
Nguy~~~~~~~~~n ~~~school                                           ___
51                                 Tran Ngoc DO*c            male      =     Kinh     pnmary         agriculture                20,000,000
_________            ~~~school                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
52                                 Dinh Van Dung             male            Kinh     secondary      agnculture                 20,000,000
school
53                                 Tran Hat                  male            Kinh     primary        agriculture                22,600,000
Ho.i Khanh village - Van Khanh       .er                                               y school  agri cultur
54   commune - Van Ninh district - Nguyen Mai                male            K        primary        agrculture                 12,000,000
Khinh Hoa province
55                                 Ha Van A                  male            Kinh     pomary         agriculture                18,000,000
______________________________                     _______    ~~ ~~sch ool _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
56                                 Nguyen Chut               male            Kinh     pimary         agriculture                20,000,000
56                   Chi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt ~~~~~~school
57                                 Le Van Tuan               male            Kinh _        _      agriculture                    7,000,000
58                                 V6 Thi Nam                female          Kinh      primary       agriculture                20,000,000
_____               ~~~~~school
59          .                      NguyenNgoc Kim            male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                15,000,000
Su6i Han village - V,an Khanh                                                     s      o
60   commne - Van Ninh district - NguyenThi Kim Anh          female          Kinh      phmary        agriculture                15,000,000
Khanh Hoa province                                                                school
61                                 Thai Thanh                male            Kinh                    agriculture                10,000,000
62                                 Do Kim Dinh               male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                20,000,000
_______              ~~~~school
63                                 Do Tran Thuong             male            Kinh    secondary      agriculture                15,000,000
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ school          _ _  _
64                                 Huynh Thi Hieu           female           Kinh      sehool        agriculture                20,000,000
Res ttlmen  Action_________________ Plan______________                           90_____  _____  _____  school                  20_000  000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                         90



TuyHoa- N/ha Trang 220kV transmission line                               Feasibility Study
Tan Dan village - Van Thang
65   commune - Van Ninh district - Duang Cong Ly             male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                12,000,000
Khanh Hoa province
66   Suoi Luon village - Van Thang  Tran Chin                male            Kinh     prihoy         agriculture                10,000,000
commune - Van Ninh district -schoo
67   Khanh Hoa province            Tran C6n                  male            Kinh     primary        agriculture                7,000,000
Trung Dung 3 village -Van Binh                                                   primary        agriculture
68   commune- Van Ninh di,trict - Nguy6n Thi Nhi             female          Kinh      school                                   3,000,000
Khanh Hoa province   _
Binh LQc 1 village - V,n Binh                                                    secondary      agriculture
69   commune - Van Ninh district - Truang Kh&c Lenh          male            Kinh      school                                   10,000,000
____   Khanh Hoa province
70                                 Tran Vaun Nam             male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                10,000,000
school
71                                 Nguyen Thi Thu            female          Kiih     primary        agriculture                8,000,000
Nguy~~~~~~~~~n ~~~school
72   Tan Phu village - Van Phu     Nguyen Thi Kim Nga        female          Kinh     prmary         agriculture                10,000,000
72                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~school           1,0,0
73   commune - Van Ninh district - Nguyen Huu Tuan           male            Kinh     pimary      agriculture, service          12,000,000
Kh&ffh Ho& province                                                               school     agiutr,svce10000
74                                DOng Thi Hoa               female          Kinh      college       agriculture                16,000,000
75                                 Nguyen C6n                male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                20,000,000
._______   school
76                                 Nguyen Mp                 male            Kinh      primary,      agriculture                15,000,000
.____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   sc h o o l  , _
77                                 Ho Thanh DAong            male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                30,000,000
Vinh  Hue village- Van   Phu                                                      school
78   commune - Van Ninh district - Phung Minh Tuan           male            Kinh     secondary      agriculture                20,000,000
Khanh Hoa province                                                                s      o
79                                 Nguyen Van D6ng           male            Kinh      p.mary        agriculture                 6,000,000
.__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ____ _ _ _ _ _s c o o   _ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____sc h o o l
80   Van Luang commune - Van       Pham Van Hing             male            Kinh     primary        agriculture                44,000,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                         91



Z *                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                             I .. 
Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                     Feasibility Study
Ninh   district  -  Khanh  Hoa                                                          school
province
81                                    DAu Khac Ky                 male             Kinlh    secondary aolcuture                          20,000,000
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ___ ___                      sho
82                                    D "au Thi Sang             female            Kinh      primary        agriculture                   6,500,000
-Xuan Tay village - Van Hurng                                                           school    ___________ _____________ho
Xwk   Tiy village - V~m Hungmale                               K    ~  secondary        agriculture                  2,0,0
83   commune - Van Ninh district - Luong Dinh Thu                                  Kinh                                                  25,000,000
Khainh Hoa province                                                                                      .                     .
84                          ,         Tran The Quyen              male             Kinh      primary        agriculture                  15,000,000
_________             ~~~school                      _ _ _ _
815                                   Trinh Dinh Cu              nmale             Kinh      primary        agriculture                  10,000,000
school
86                                    Nguyen Thi Thanh           female            Kinh      pnalry         agriculture                  15,000,000
87 NgQc Son village - Ninh An                                                              sho
87   commune - Ninh H6a district - Nguyn Gi6                      male             Kinh                  agriculture, trade              21,000,000
88   Khanh Hoa province               La Van Tu                   male             Tay      secondary       agriculture                  20,000,000
school     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __            _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
89                                    N6ng Van Diem               male             Tay                      agriculture                  40,000,000
Lac H6a village - Ninh An                                                               primary        agriculture
90   commune -Ninh H6a district - Huynh Thi Nhu                  female            Kinh       school                                     30,000,000
Khanh Hoa province                                                           _
91   Phii Son village - Ninh Trung    Nguyen Quanh                male             Kinh      primary         agricultsre                  20,000,000
commune - Ninh H6a district -                                                           school
92   Khanh Hoa province               Hoang Xuan Y                male             Kinh    high school      agriculture                  21,000,000
93   Tan Ninh village - Ninh Trung    Truang Ngoc Thien           male             Kinh     secondary        agriculture                  15,000,000
commune -Ninh H6a district -sconl
94   Khnh Hoa province                Pham Anh                    male             Kinh     secondary        agriculture                  10,000,000
95   Ninh Than commune - Ninh Hoa     Bui Van Luan                male             Kinh      primary         agriculture                  12,600,000
district - Khanh Hoa province                                                           school
H6a Thuan village - Ninh Binh
96   commune - Ninh H6a district - Tran Tn Tai                    male             Kinh     secondary        agriculture                  24,000,000
Khanh Hoa province                                                                      school
Resettlement Action Plan                                                               92



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                                 Feasibility Study
97                                      female           Kinh ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2flfl1~~~~~1riar  agriculture     1,0,0
97   Van KhM   village - Ninh Loc   Ha Thi Churang            female           Kinh      schour                                    10,000,000
98 comimune - Ninh Hot district -HOA Ngoc An                male                      primary        agriculture                1,0,0
98   Khanh Hoa provimce             Ho_Ngoc_Anh    _male_Kinh                            school        agnculture                  lS,000,000
99                                  Tra.m Ngoc Le              male            Kinh    high school     agriculture                 30,000,000
Phong Thanh village - Ninh Loc                            male                    secondary       agriculture
100  commune - Ninh Hoa district - TrAn Van Tu6ng                              Kinh       school                                   12,000,000
Khinh Hoa province
101                                  Phan Van Hien             male             Kinh    secondary        service                   30,000,000
___________ ___________ _   _________sch   o o l
102               .             ,ch  Nguyen Thi Thu            female           Kinh      school       trade, cadres               12,000,000
V,an Thuan village - Nmnh Ich      y     .                                          school    ________
103  commune - Ninh Hoa district - TrAn Thi DAo                female           Kinh                     servive                   60,000,000
104  Khanh Hoa province              Huynh Thi Kim Qui         female           Kinh      school        agnculture                 12,000,000
105                                  TrAan Van Tuan            male             Kinh    secondary       agiculture                 36,000,000
106  Ninh ich commune - Ninh Hoa     Vo Tbi Tuyet Mai         female            Kinh    secondary       agriculture                20,000,000
district - Khanh Hoa rovince         .                                              school                                      ,
107                                  Nguyen Van Long                                    secondary       agriculture
Vinh Luang commune       Nha                                                        school________
108  Trang city - Khanh Hoa provice  Le Quang Hung             male             Kinh    secondary       agriculture                36,000,000
Trang city - Kh~nh Ho~ prvince  L~ Quang Wing  maleschool                                            _______
109  Wc L6c village - V-mh Phang    Nguyexn*cDung              male             Kinh    secondary       agriculture                600,000,000
commffune - Nha Trang city                                                          scoo
110  Khanh Hoa province             DOng Van Sy                male             Kinh    secondary   agricultre, mason               8,000,000
school     arclue      ao                  ,0,0
111                                  LE Dang                   male             Kinh   high school      agriculture                 15,000,000
112                                  Ho Van Hing               male             Kinh    secondary      service, trade               15,850,000
school                       _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
113                                  Le Tran                   male             Kinh     primary        agriculture                 5,000,000
Resettlement Action Plan                                                           93



Tuy Hoa- NAa Trang 220kV transmission line                                      Feasibility Study
114                                    Nguyen Van Thep             male             Kinh     secondarY        agriculture                  28,630,000
___________ ___________ _   _________sch      o o l
115                                    Nguyen Van Khiem            male      =      Kimh     secondary    agriculture, mason               26,275,000
115            Nguy~~~~n V~~n Khi&n        male              Kinli ~~~~~ school____
116                                    Nguyen Van Trung            male             Kinh       school        service, trade                50,425,000
117                                    Nguyen Van Giau             male             Kinh      pehool          agriculture                  30,000,000
_________   ______     sch o ol__                       _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
118   Nhu   Xuan    village  , Vnmh    Nguyen Vn Lai               male             Kinh     high school        cadres                     23,790,000
119   Phucing comnune - Nha Trang      Do Tuqc                     male             Kinh       school         agriculture                  13,300,000
19 city - Khinh HoA province                                                                school________
120                                    Doon Van Soan               male             Kinh     secondary          cadres                     25,000,000
_________   ______     sch ool                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
121                                    Dooan Van Trang             male             Kinh      secondary                                    21,200,000
______                 ~~~~~school_                                _  _   _  _  _
122                                    Le Minh Vie.t               male             Kinh     secondary        agriculture                   24,900,000
122            L8 Mmli Vi&                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~school  _______
123                                    Nguyen Thi Nga             female            Kinh      secondary    agriculture, mason               18,000,000
_________              ~~~school                      _ _ _ _
124                                    Le Hong                     male       =      Kinh      school         agriculture                   24,900,000
125                                    Nguyen V      Tanmale                        Kinh      secondary         cadres                      21,600,000
126                                    Le Thi Muon                female             Kinh     primary         agriculture                   7,450,000
_________  ______schooi
127                                    Nguyen V      en Tien       male              Kinh     primary         agriculture                   9,575,000
128                                    Nguyen NgQc Diu             male                       primary         agriculture                   29,300,000
school
129                                    Le Hoang Son                mlKih                      sechoolar    agriculture, mason               1,0,0
1l 3 01                                 Buii Thanh Chi             male       =               primary         agriculture                   21,200,000
130 ettlem en t  Bcino n                   T hanh  C9                                    4I    school     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __sc o
Resettlement Action Plan                                                                94



Tuy Hoa- Nha Trang 220kV transmission line                              Feasibility Study
131                                Nguyen Ngoc              male            Kinh     pnmary   |    agriculture               24,900,000
school
132                                Huynhfi DOuc Nhorn       male            K       secondary      agriculture               28,000,000
132           Hu~~~~~~~~~~nh Duc ~~~~~~~~~ ~school                       _______
133                                Phan NgQc                male            Kinh    secondary      agriculture               30,000,000
_ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~sc h o o l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
134                    .           D'o, (                   male            Kinh    secondary   agriculture, driver          72,000,000
Xuan Lac village, Vinh,Ngoc                          male                    secondary
135     commune, Nha Trang city,   Hu'nh Tan Vu                             Kinh     school    agriculture, mason            36,000,000
Khinh HoA province
Resettlement Action Plan                                                       95



CQNG IaOA XA HQI CHU NGHIA V1JT NAM
DQc Iap - Ttr do - IH.uh1i phliic
----       --------oOo -
ngiy..ffthdng..iL.ndin 200.'1
BIEIN BAN TH1AM VAN CQNG DONG
VE K1E IIOACEI DiN BU VA TAI DINH Clf
Tlu'inh phiAalu thalln dtu:                                                ,
1. Dai die.n UBND  OVCV   ..lA.'. . ..;                              ..I,XI.
2.  Nhting ngUW i lnlihhiJ4 g: ...................... ................ Nal ll  ......... . ............
3. Dai dien Cly TVXD Dien 4: ....fi4s..Set     .
Cac van dl titam vani cQng dlong:
1. Plho bieji nlifruig cinixl s6chx Iien quan den dln bix, tai dinll ctr.
- Nlirng khu vtrc trtrg dvung dat clio dr ain.
-  Dur kien tli&i gian tien Itanh cho d.r 6n.
-  I'llo bien cac clinii s6ch cua Viet Nant va WB.
-  Cac quy dinli plhip luat Viet Nam vai chlinh s6ch WB c6 lien quan.
-  Cac clhinli sdch den bui cho Du an.
-  Cac kliu tai dinii cur (neu c6).
2. Y Icien cua dia plitorxg ve ke lioaclh deix bii vi tii djiili cu:
- Kdi udag xay ra dilh Itriung bht loi cdia dllr di
+ DOi v6i nha cira:...... '  .. A....      <v r
~~~~~~~~~~~..                        , 
+  D6Si voii cORy c& i:..'2hz~,  lj  1' (w~.............&.. .............:. .... . l' . .i...   .... 6. .c.:u.' .
..)..................................................................................................................................
+ DEi v61 moi truaing tA.n llin, x a I-Ioi:                   .............t.2
I..........                                          ....
- Cd(C' 1ielt phl di gidiii thiieu:
86



'j~~~~~~~'
:)V's DNWI5 'ttU   ;."  "  ) ctva WTJI'2
2u.onqd ei' naXCnb qlui           u      x
j, USX([ 211hp XX URA .11jL A.110UO
Nr9nq quop Wn2u una3 utqu aX                                      uS:p IUp u na  u*qu 3X
......................................................................... .................... PZ..............  -. . . . .. .. . . . .
........................................................... ....................... .N. . i.@.. :I s w i   tu   fnai   ?.  5.ni   +.n.XL
....................................................                    ......  ... ti y y
............................................................ ...........................................................
,~qu   ujpO.,lf  TUt 1'qUp      1 
........--.-.-----------------------------------:tJ U1341A U1POp 11 SUOJI +
.p   o p      uo ~~ UJ 
......................................................................................................................................
.......................................................;-7f... ... ..... ...................
i3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 17'1
......................... ..... .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
............................................................. .................................... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..........:...                                     :O     q i utop !ieI2 uojL +
6         :n1i tp tupiff dzid ONq   p,pD -



*                              CONG u-1oA XA IIQI CtlIU NGHiA VIJ,T NAM
DQc Iap - Tui (lo - Ilaiili plifc
*                                        ~~~~~~~~~~oOo -
.... :J;ho, nagty.-.Dth6ng .. ...........5nam 200.+
BIR N BAN THJAM VAN CONG DONG
Vft K1l HOACIH DItN BU VA TAI DINH CU
Thhnijl pli"ant thlam clur:
1. Dai dien                 .        ........  lk.w     .... Xlr)u
2. Nlhrrng ngtrui anli hturng: ................................... Nain ..   Nu   Z
3. Dai diein Cty TVXD Dien                               ..................
Cic van de tlain van cQng dlong:
1. Phi6 bie&  iiii-hig ciiiiii sicli lieln qtplan d6n deAn bil, tii djiih cu.
-   Nliriing kilu virc truing dung dat clio dur an.
-   Dur kien th6i gian tien h?ailn clio dkr in.
- Plio bie^n cac clilnli sfich cuia Vie.t Naimi va WB.
-   Cac quy dijni plap ILuit Viet Namn vai cliinl sich WB c6 lien quaii.
-   Cac clhinli schl den bi clio D   fr an.
-   Cac khu tai dinljn  cur (neu co).
2. Y Iien cfia dia plitrorng ve ke^ loacli d"el bix va tai dinli cu:
- Iflid iaeig xdy ra dilih hIn'eiig bait tli ciUa dlr in d
+ Doi v&i nhiA cira: ....4A2J2A..               .. s.sc . S     ..Xzn..k;4 ..............
......................................................................................................................................
+ Doi v6i dat dai: .....  ... ...;..             ..      .     .     .      .     .
............................................................. .......................................................................................................
..........................................................................................I .................................................................................................. 
+ D oi v(i cay coi:...                                ..........................
................................ . . . . . . . . . .   ; . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-1- DOi v&i m6i trLr&nlg tUr nlihin, x,t H-l.i:...Ciwv'-
- Cic bieit phdp giadini thiiu:



+  Trong       giai doa?n       thiet ke:                                    .   ..                       .................................
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
+ Tronig giai doa?n tlii c6ng: .................................................'                                                            .
...................................................................................................................................... ;
......................................................................................................................................
+   I'rong     giai doan        vwin   hAli:.........................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
- Cdc phiwo7ltg adit diM bit, quy t1-inih cli It-d d4n bit:
+ Gia (leldi bi,, hinh            tlIifc d&        bil:...                           .4.
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................     ............................................................................................2
+ Tli&i gian tlhkrc Iiien clii tra deii bui:..-x.Q ...                            i. w .         ...         ..
....................................................................................................................................
...........................................................................................................................I...........
+   Quy     clie kieu      nai giam         sat:..Ak    tyvl.............................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
Xac nlifan cuia dai dlien                                                             Xac nilia.l cuia liguObi anhl lmU'Ong
C8ng ty Tun van Xay dtrig Die.n 4
Xic iili(iii cuia chinikl quyeAii dia plitronig



CQNG HOAk XA HQI CHU NGHIA VIE T NAM
Doc Iap - Tir do - Hanlh phlikc
-oOo-
'A.]J.v:......, ngaiy Zithdng.,5..nd,m 2001.
Bit'N BAN TIIAM VAN CONG DONG
VE KIt HOACH DEItN BU VA TAI DINH CU'
Tl'atnli plilhn thlanx dur:
1. Dai die .UBND. t                                     ....(.. 5 X.. 
2. NliCr     nguai.inlh htnung: ....................... Nain ....    ... Nur..
3. DEai dien Cty TVXD Dien 4: .................................... h4
C:ic val) de till Vanl cQlig dOllg:
1. Phoo bien iihinig chiihi s4ch li'en quan den den bii, tai djini cir.
-  Nlirng khu vurc trung dilng dat ciho dur n.
-   Dkr kiein t1iA gian tien li.Anh clio dtr an.
-  Plho bie^n cac cliili salch cuia Viet Nani va WB3.
-   Caic quy dijni plAp ludt Viet Naiii vat chlilih Slich WB c6 liein quan.
-   Cac cliiiili saeh den bCi cho Dtr an.
-   Cac kimi tai diflih cr (neu c6).
2. Y ltien cia dlia phitrong ve ke lioacic dle; btt va tai diinil cu:
- I(Iid ntdng xay ea dith hiicng bA't 1oi ciia duiadu                            2
+ D6oi VCJi uila   c     k ...i &.h .    .4.e    .AL    '      ki.....&
+ Doi voi n1at dai:...... 4vi.   14.S4..n &A
....................................................................................................................... ...............
+ D6i v&i cay
......................................................................................................................................
............................................................................................ ..........................................
+ Doi v6i m6i tinrng tLr nhi8n, xai 116i:...A...s,                .     ... YiA.4  .
..X.rX...X.a..l,/.S;r....AP..48?..............................................................................
Cdic biI p cip gidini tllie l:
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



+ Trong giai do4al thiet                          .. C........... .t tL                                                                       ...
-                      ~   ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  . ...... ..,,...--------.-'.''''''''''''''-'''---''''''''''''''''''-'''-'''''''''
. ......................................................................... ....................................................... .................. 
+ Trong giai dosin thi c6ng:. .
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
+-     rojng     giai doaii vain           hAinh:.........................................................................................
............................................................................................ ............................................................... 
......................................................................................................................................
- Cdc p/tl-wog dii den bit, quy trilith clti tl-ri del bit:                                                   ,
+ Gia {l e1^n bi, lhinli tlirc dei b u: ...T                                 . .      .  .               .                            ...4
.          kk .j t                  %.>' '... 1.).X.v.           .... .^..z.. . ..
......................................................................................................................................
+   Tlih    i giani tlh     rc   Iien     clii tra     den        bit:...........................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
   Quy      che     ki&e      nai giAm          sit:........................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
X-Ac nilAn cua dlai (liv'll                                                                     Xac n111,11 t71a ngtroi filil 1lltrong
C0ng ty 'Fir vani Xfiy dung Di'it 4
Xac 1111,5n c;la cliiili qtuye'ji iia phiiroriig
,{04



:mauijj zitivi diV1d uJiq ,p) -
...............................................  ......  ............>y  C). .... . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .
...............................................................-.-. - :1611 ex  'LI! L   i il n. I O LLI !L A   IOC1 +
......................................................................................................................................
..................................  ......     .... - ~i  -   -    ..--..-.---.-.-....................''.'
........................................................ -              --3   X------- 3   Ses OA   !g (  -t
................................................ .....................................................................................
...............................................................  ......................... .,  4 ...... ....
~~~~~~~~~~...................................... ......................... ---)Z*o*8------------------------:113P Myt OA  !Q( +
.......... ......... .........-.-------.-....... ......... ........... - -   .... ......... ......... .........
~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m T-i................ ......-.--..............---a--n 4 v*-- **@**s--e** n llI!A Q 
.:13p11 VIP !9OA JOG +
12~~~~~~~0
IIV .lip Viii 7.4f ipq gUI,.o.f llV i U V1 i4iUX XllULl P'II -
:nma luip !,')   ii nq  ?aLp ilaeoll a)[ 3A 1.o.nild uBp uip trail A  Z
-(go fliu) no iluip !V1 nil-j oDE  -
tw,1 fiC ot0o niq uiap IaL,s IljtUl4 aLeD  -
iLnilb uail 03 gA/ tjIOLS tllIilO EA LIIL'N 151A tle1 dct,ijd tliUp Xnb 3D  -
'G  A   tBA tElBN 13!A BLI tPLs tt11111 31o uiiaq 91t1d  -
U,B ilp Oo LjUL'Lt UVa!1 U! !P2 l 'tl1 u3 ' UEa  -
U, np oq1 )Up 2UIpP 2LTT1 OaAA n'IN 2untlhN    -
-.no luip? Iu; 'nq uYap uiapl uenb) uail ip,es quila2 unillti tlaiq otld *1
y       ~y    '~~
.: 4AU4.: p u4 ax ux . c &  u6ip !ua  e
JY%    ...........  .......111                                        fLI.......... .........  .. z..   ...... :2ua;q qLA 1:)nty 2 i'm   
.........                           .....&J;A/  . - NIufl UalP !dl'  1
:.nip mtuml tiuqld qtuuqj 
.fl3 HNIG IVJ VA flf KJM IHDVO                1X ffA
O9QG DONO;) MVA TVILHSL MVfI N IjtI
,~.0-000---u
nIid   1U=uH - op i1 - d-  j a
NVN JIGaA VIYIDN fll-ID I6i-I VX yOu DKOID



+ Trong giai doan thiet ke: ......                                              .....                                                           ... 4            ..
-............           .                     x!                                     .          ........................................................
....................................................................................................................................
 Trong giai doajn thli cong: ........... 
+   T    o    g  g   a    do     n   t   icol          .............. ........... ;;.. ... ..   w,....... /t.o....... lk'... c.... v;. ....... 0. ...c.id........... C.7.j......   .  A.C
........... ...                                                               . ...f
+Tronggiiv                                                                                       .................... ; ;;.. ;  ....li  ..................
~          ~~~      .............................................. ...........I..G .S. d
......................................................................................................................................
- Cdc phirot g di den bih, qtiy tr-illl clii tr,t titLI bit:
+   G   ia   cle'i bui, hiilih          th*irc    den     bi:.................................................................................
.                                                 LL4A....~~~~~......                kl~ 4 ~    ........................
...................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................. 
+ ThMi giani thlrc hien chi tra den bt:                                                            -
..................................... ..... .fi 4 kt ^:.'0r.
+ Quy clhe kieu nai giam salt: .AL                                                          ..........................:...
......................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................
Xac nlOn cuia dai dilei                                                                           Xac il4an cua lgU'O iiibh hir&ng
Cong ty,Tir van Xaiy duig Die@n 4
Mc ulinll cufa cihiix quyen tlia phlizong
A0 3



.... .. . I | I J 1 . l ,- i-sw _ . .].1 l aW1 1 .1, d * 4 4 SM - . !_ o
s



