SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGINEERING3 CONSULTING COMPANY 4
ISO 900100
RP287
Project No.: 15 - 02   VOL. 5
TUY HOA 220kV SUBSTATION
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
K
Ii.~  ~~~~~ . 
:          ~~~~Khanh Hoa Province - 2005 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
PECC4     POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
6O 900120
PROJECT: 15 - 02
TUY HOA 220kV SUBSTATION
FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
(FIRST REVISION)
Head of Department : Nguyen Kim Dong
Head of Project Design: Nguyen Cuong
Khanh Hoa Province,  2005
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF
POWER ENGINEERING CONSULTING COMPANY 4
UYEN H1W TAP
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
l 



Tuy Hoa 220kVsubstation                                    Feasibility Study
The staffs participating in RAP establishment including of:
No.       Full name            Content prepared           Signature
In charge of presiding RAP
1    Tran Van Luyen       estblshen
estabhlunhent/.
2    Mai Thi Hop          Establishing RAP
Resettlement Action Plan



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CONTENTS
ABBREVIATIONS
SUMMARY                                                               5
1. Policy framework                                                   5
2. Project impacts                                                    5
3. Compensation policy                                                6
4. Public consultation                                                6
5. Grievance                                                          6
6. Management organization                                            7
7. Implementation schedule                                            7
8. Cost estimate                                                      7
9. Information dissemination                                          7
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL INTRODUCTION                                       8
1.1 The basis of the report                                           8
1.2 Principles and Objectives                                         8
1.3 Validity of RAP implementation                                    9
1.4 Description of the project                                        10
1.4.1 The project characteristics                                     10
1.4.2 Project impacts                                                 12
1.5 Project impacts mitigation measures                               12
1.6 Total cost of projects                                            13
CHAPTER    2: IMPLEMENTATION        ORGANIZATION AND        LEGAL     14
FRAMEWORK FOR COMPENSA TIONAND RESETTLEMENT
2.1 Institutional arrangements                                        14
2.2 The functions, tasks forces and responsibility                    14
2.3 Staffing organization and responsibilities                        19
2.4 Legal framework                                                   20
CHAPTER 3: ENTITLEMENT POLICY                                         24
3.1 Definition of eligibility and limitation to eligibility           24
3.2 Resettlement and compensation principles                          24
3.3 Eligibility to compensation entitlement                           25
3.4 Entitlement policy                                                25
3.5 Impacted categories                                               28
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                          1



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CHUANG 4: CENSUS AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY AND THE 29
PROJECT IMPACTS
4.1 Survey work, inventory of project impacts                       29
4.2 The socio-economic condition of project area                    29
4.3 Impacted ethnic minority                                        30
CHAPTER 5: PULICPARTICIPATIONAND CONSULTANT                        31
5.1 Objectives of information campaign and consultation program     31
5.2 Information campaign PAP & agency consultation                  31
5.3 Information dissemination and PAPs's consultation               32
CHAPTER 6: GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS                                   35
CHAPTER 7: MONITORING AND SUPERVISION                              37
7.1 Internal monitoring                                             37
7.2 Independent monitoring                                          37
CHAPTER      8:    IMPLEMENTATION        ORGANIZATION        FOR   39
COMPENSATIONAND RESETTLEMENT
8.1 Measures for the project implementation                         39
8.1.1 Announcement to PAPs                                          39
8.1.2 Compensation and Resettlement deadlines                       39
8.2 RAP implementation process                                      39
8.3 RAP implementation schedule                                    41
CHAPTER 9: COSTS AND BUDGET                                         42
9.1 Budget                                                          42
9.2 Compensation cost estimation                                    42
9.2.1 Land                                                          42
9.2.2 Impacted trees and crops                                      42
9.3 Compensation cost estimation                                    43
9.3.1 Cost for RAP implementation                                   43
9.3.2 Compensation cost                                             43
9.3.3 Management cost                                               43
9.3.4 Supervision cost                                              44
9.3.5 Provisional sum                                               44
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       2



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
9.3.6 Total compensation cost for project                          44
CCHAPTER 10: CONCLUSIONAND PROPOSALS                               45
10.1 Conclusion                                                    45
10.2 Proposals                                                     45
APPENDICES                                                         46
Annex 1: Entitlement matrix                                        47
Annex 2: Cost estimate for compensation of Tuy Hoa 220kV substation  49+50
Annex 3: Inventory of project affected households for Tuy Hoa 220kV  51
substation
Annex 4: Entitlements of project affected households               55
Annex 5. Socio-economic household data sheet of PAP                59
Annex 6: Minutes of public consultation                            61
4
ES on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        3



Resettlement Action Pian (RAP)
ABBREVIATIONS
- RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
- PAPs            Project Affected Persons
- PAP             Project Affected Person
- WB              World Bank
- PC              People's Committee
- PPC             Provincial People's Committee
- EVN             Electricity of Vietnam
- LC              Land clearance
- PRCs            Provincial Resettlement Committees (Boards)
- DRCs            District Resettlement Committees
- DMS             Detailed measurement survey
- PMB             Project Management Board
- PECC4           Power Engineering Consulting Company 4
- ER              Environmental Resource
- RIB             Resettlement Information Booklet
- DPs             Displaced persons
- S/s             Substation
- US              United States Dollar
- Trans.          Transformer
- FS              Feasibility Study
- TD              Technical design
- BD              Bidding documents
- VND             Viet Nam Dong
- ROW             Right-Of-Way
- CPPMB           Central Power Projects Management Board
- CLDC            Central Regional Load Dispatch Centre
- NLDC            National Load Dispatch Centre
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                          4



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
SUMMARY
Implementing the Vietnamese Communist Party's policy on the national
industrialization and modernization program, Electricity of Vietnam (EVN) has
established the project "Transmission, distribution and overcoming natural
disasters" (3034-VN) financed by World Bank (WB). One of its component is "Tuy
Hoa 220kV substation" project with permanent land acquisition is 31,095.5 m2. The
substation is expected to construct on the area of Xom Moi - Mau Lam Bac
Villages- Hoa Quang Bac Commune- Phu Hoa District - Phu Yen Province.
The 220kV Tuy Hoa substation is constructed for the purpose of receiving
power from Song Ba Ha Hydropower Plant, connecting to the national power
network via Quy Nhon - Tuy Hoa and Tuy Hoa - Nha Trang 220kV transmission
lines, increasing the reliablity in power supply and power quality in the region.
1. Policy framework
The plan on project compensation and resettlement is established based on
Decree 197/20041ND-CP dated December 3, 2004 of the Government regarding the
compensation, resettlement support when the State takes back the land; Decree
188/2004/ND-CP dated November 16, 2004 of the Government regarding the
method to determine the land price and the price framework of land kinds; Decree
181/2004/ND-CP of the Government regarding the implementation of Land Law,
etc... and guideline on RAP establishment of WB (the policy framework of
unvoluntary resettlement OD 4.30). According to this policy, PAPs are people,
households, entities with or without juridical personality for their assets on project
impacted land and inventoried before the cut-off-date (June 18th, 2004) are entitled
to compensation and resettlement.
2. Project impacts
The project causes impacts to the followings:
- Perpetual land acquisition to construct the substation and acess road
to the substation is 31,095.5 in2.
- Causing damage to trees, crops at the project area.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      5



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Results of project data collection show that there are 27 impacted households with
cultivated land, whereas:
+ No household loses over 25% area of agricultural land
+ No affect to cultural relics area, preservation area, pagoda and sensitive
areas
+ No ethnic minority household among impacted households.
During public consultation process, impacted households were agreed to select the
compensation procedure on land and assets in cash.
3. Compensation policy
The cut-off-date is March 22nd, 2004. The price for making compensation on
land, assets and crops is based on the compensation unit price of Phu Yen Province.
All impacted households are entitled according to the policy framework and
Vietnam Decrees.. Up till now, the survey result and damage inventory shows that
no remarkable impacts to people, the community and the public assets. As a result,
it is unnecessary to have economical recovery measures
4. Public consultation
PAPs consultation to get feedback comments will restrict the contradictions and
delay when implementing the project. The resettlement plan will be implemented
following to the reference comments from the authorities and people in order to
maximize their participation in the resettlement plan and implementation as well as
socio-economical benefits. The authorities and people are consulted in line route
location, the resettlement policy, implementation of resettlement plan, grievance
mechanism and the checking, appraisal towards the recovery of life of impacted
people after project implementation.
5. Grievance
During project implementation, grievances of impacted people will be solves
based on Vietnam law. All grievances will be solved equitably and the grievances
procedures will be guided by related authorities. The griever will pay no cost for
this grievance.
CPPMB and the local authority are responsible for monitoring the RAP
implementation process. In addition, an independent consulting agency will be
assigned to supervise independently and appraise the compensation and
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      6



--I| 
ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
resettlement implementation process in accordance with the policy stated in this
dossier. This agency can be selected and awarded the contract by the PMB after the
approved resettlement plan or selected and awarded the contract by WB. The
supervising activities are implemented from the beginning of project
implementation stage. This independent supervising agency will report to PMB or
WB about its results of supervising activities.
6. Management organization
CPPMB is the project coordinating unit and cooperates with other agencies such
as the People's Committee of Phu Yen Province, the local authority, Power
Company of Phu Yen province and WB in implementing detailed works of project,
especially the RAP implementation plan.
7. Project implementation schedule
Contents                                Time
Completing and submitting to the relevant authorities    June, 2004
for approval on cost estimate and technical design
The relevant authorities approve documents related to    May, 2005
the cost estimate and technical design
Preparation of bidding documents for goods and          August, 2005
construction
Land clearance works                            September 2005-+ October 2005
Construction  time and putting the project into November 2005÷ December 2006
operation
8. Cost estimate
Total project compensation cost is about VND 697,805,200 (or USD 44,165)
Total investment capital: VND 123,841,334,000 (or USD 7,838,059)
9. Information dissemination
The draft RAP will be disclosed in Phu Yen provinces and the Information
Development Center of WB (VDC) at premise of 63 Ly Thai To Street, Ha Noi
City. CPPMB will send copies of entitlement statement form to the project district
authority. All feedbacks from the local authority and people are considered and
supplemented into the RAP.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      7



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER I
GENERAL INTRODUCTION
1.1 THE BASIS OF THE REPORT
Based on the document No.1127 EVN/AMT-KH dated March 25,2004 of
Central Power Projects Management Board (CPPMB) about the Feasibility Study
Report establishment of the power network project.
Based on the above instruction, the CPPMB has made a contract with
PECC4 for preparing Feasibility Study Report, RAP and EMP of the projects.
Carrying out the contract (with CPPMB), PECC4 has been gathering data,
surveying at sites and preparing RAP report for the projects.
1.2 PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
This report is set up with the purpose:
+ Study on policies of compensation, resettlement for households having land
acquisition for construction of substation according to Viet Nam laws and WB
guidelines.
+Propose the alternatives of compensation, resettlement and the most efficient
way of implementation to the households affected.
+ Help to choose the right design alternative, reduce the degree of damage at
the implementation of project and ensure the most economic and social advantages
of the project
+ Carry out to make livelihood-socio-economic damage survey of the project
area as well as working with the relevant authorities about compensation,
resettlement policies for affected households. The investigation work and collection
of data are mainly concentrated on the site of installation of substation.
The principle objective of the policy framework of unvoluntary resettlement
OD 4.30) is:
All PAP's residing, working, doing business, at least maintain, their pre-
project living standards and income earning capacity as of the date of the baseline
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        8



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
surveys are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist
them to improve or at least maintain their pre-Project living standards, income
earning capacity and production level. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not
bar the PAP from entitlement to such rehabilitation measures.
During RAP preparation, Decrees and Circulars of Vietnamese Government
such as Decree 197/2004/ND-CP, Decree 181/2004/ND-CP, Decree 188/2004/ND-
CP, etc and Decisions about compensation unit price issued by The peoples'
comnittees of provinces are applied. The entitlement policy in this RAP are
suggested as follows:
+ Apply a compensation rate according to the market price or replacement
cost: Compensation of land and crops (short-day crops) at market price.
Compensation of house and trees (long-day tree) at conversion price
+ All affected properties are legible from the cut-off-date (March 22nd,
2004). The affected households who have been registered will be compensated.
This RAP will be valid after GOV's and WB's approval.
1.3 VALIDITY OF RAP IMPLEMENTATION
Resettlement and compensation program for PAPs, policy and
provisions on resettlement and compensation entitlement in RAP will be applied
after approval of WB and Vietnamese Government. To meet RAP's objectives such
as minmizing the resettlement and land acquisition, compensation costs at
replacement cost or market cost are applied. Thus, before implementing
resettlement and compensation program, the project owner and local authorities
should check and revise the applied compensation costs in this report. If there is any
compensation unit price non-conforming at the time of program implementation,
the local authorities and Resettlement and Compensation Board (RCB) need to
revise them to ensure sufficient compensation payment for PAPs according to
principles stated in RAP.
Survey data in this report base on investigation report in the phase of
feasibility study of the project and update them as per the approved alternative.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       9



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
1.4 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1.4.1 The project characteristics
The 220kV Tuy Hoa substation is planned to be constructed on rice-field land
and hilly waste land on the area of Xom Moi - Mau Lam Bac Villages- Hoa Quang
Bac Commune- Phu Hoa District - Phu Yen Province.
- North adjacent to crops land area
- South adjacent to asphalt road inter-district of Phu Hoa
- East adjacent to crops land area
- Southeast adjacent to populated area of Mau Lam Bac Village
- West adjacent to rice-field of Hoa Quang Bac co-operative
+ Scope ofproject
- Voltage level: 220/110/22kV.
- Installed capacity: 02 transformers x 125MVA - in first stage,  01
transformer 220/110/22kV-125MVA will be installed.
- 220kV side: 5 feeders
- 110kV side: 9 feeders
+ Single line diagram:
- 220kV side: Apply the scheme "Double busbar system with transfer bus,
bus-section circuit breaker in combination with bus coupling breaker".
- 110kV side: Apply the scheme "Double busbar system with transfer bus,
bus-section circuit breaker in combination with bus coupling breaker".
- 22kV side: Apply the scheme "Single busbar with non-sectionalizing
circuit breaker ".
The control and supervisory system of Tuy Hoa 220kV substation is
controlled by computer, concretely as follows:
The computerized control system permits to perform RTU functions from
National Load Dispatch Centre (NLDC) and Central Load Dispatch Centre(CLDC).
The control and supervisory systems consist of 4 levels:
* Level 1: Control centers (NLDC and CRLDC)
* Level 2: Station level
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        10



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
* Level 3: Bay level with V/O
* Level 4: Equipment level
+Auxiliary solutions:.
- Service power supply: 380/220VAC, 01 transformer 22/0.4kV-180KVA,
01 transformer 15(22)-180KV and distribution panel are used.
- 220DVC power supply: 02 battery sets 220V-18OAh is frequently charged
through 02 rectifiers and distribution panel.
+ Anti- lightning protection and earthing:
- Earthing system: Pile and bar types are used.
- Lightning system: Lightning arrester and lightning rod are installed on the
portal poles of switchgear 220kV and 1 OkV.
* Construction solutions
+ Structure solutions
Gantry foundation, equipment support: Reinforced concrete
Gantry tower                     : Hot dip galvanizing figural steel
Arms, equipment support          : Hot dip galvanizing figural steel
- Road inside substation         : Concrete
- Road outside substation        : Concrete
- Control house: Structure of one storey, dimension 12m x 36m, height of
wall to ceiling 4.2m. Main bearing force structure made of all-block steel concrete,
foundation of wall made of hewn stone.
+ Water drainage and supply system:
- Water supply system: including drilling wells, water pump, water
container, water pipeline made by galvanizing steel.
- Drainage system: including trench, collecting wells
+ Fire extinguishing system: including 01 pumping station in emergency
case, 2 water tanks, pipeline and foam fire extinguishers
+ About planning: The construction site of 220kV Tuy Hoa substation is not
incorporated in planning projects of Phu Hoa district as well as Phu Yen
Province.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       11



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
+ Development capacity: at this site, the connection capacity of 220kV,
110kV and 22kV route lines in and out substation are totally convenient for present
as well as for future development.
+ About infrastructure: The substation site is near the asphalt road inter-
district of Phu Hoa, distant of National road IA of 10km in the West. There is 15kV
inter-district power network (which will be reformed to 22kV), so it's very
convenient for work execution and operation management afterwards.
- Impact on environment: The site of installation of substation is on rice-field
land and hilly waste land, only adjacent in Southeast to a populated area of Mau
Lam Bac village distant of 100m. So the impact on environment in the vicinity is
not great.
1.4.2 Project impacts
Impacts on land and properties:
- Pennanent acquisition land area         : 31,095.5m2.
- The 220kV Tuy Hoa substation does not impact on house and land tenure
but it's only impact on rice-field land and hilly waste land.
1.5 PROJECT IMPACTS MITIGATION MEASURES
Selection of substation location: For the investigation and design of line
route completely avoid passing:
- Market areas, densely populated areas.
- Airport, military areas.
- Near or parallel with communication system
- Pagoda, protection forests, natural preserved areas, historic and cultural
asests etc.
Technical solutions thoroughly exploited:
Design a rational work execution alternative, choose time for work execution
at periods of harvest and complete work when next crop is not yet cultivated ( land
is at rest). Organize work according to many shifts at high productivity, reducing
the time of land appropriation. Make definetely each item of work, each part of
route line to reduce the time of land appropriation. During investigation and work
ES on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        12



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
execution process, the workers's camps are set up on vacant lot, on communal
office area, not on private land or cultivated land.
Measures of cash indemnification are most rational.
During the stage of operation management, making repairs and overcoming
incidents, safety measures are applied such as:
- Safety measures when making contact with electrical equipments
-Safety measures when making operation management works, repairs of
substation
1.6 TOTAL COST OF PROJECT
Total Investment Capital           : 123,841,334,000 VND
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       13



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 2
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
FOR COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT
Project Management Board and Local Authorities will be responsible for
implementing RAP. It should be on schedule, suitable with approved schedule for
the project. The coordination between the project owner and local authorities will
be made closely in order to implement RAP smoothly and effectively and to avoid
the delay of RAP implementation
2.1 INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The following institutions/agencies will be involved in implementing RAP:
- People's Committee of Phu Yen Province
- Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
- Project Management Board - Central Power Projects Management Board
- Consultant Company - Power Engineering Consulting Company No.4.
- Price - Financing Departments of Phu Yen Provinces
- Land Clearance Board of Phu Yen Province
- People's Committee of Phu Hoa District
- Land offices of Phu Hoa District
- Land clearance Board of Phu Hoa District
- People's Committee of Hoa Quang Bac Commune
- Project affected persons
2.2 FUNCTIONS, TASKS FORCE AND RESPONSIBILITY
*' Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
EVN is the owner of the project and is responsible for managing and
organizing of investment policy, investigation, design, construction as well as
supervision for RAP implementation. EVN controls the project preparation and
implementation via professional agencies, approving decisions concerning
resettlement work submitted by PMB; assigning Central Power Projects
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        14



ResettlementAchion Plan (RAP)
* Establishing Provincial Resettlement and Compensation Committee and
directly manages the activities of this Board.
* Directing and managing the coordination between Branches and local
authorities in RAP implementation.
*: Departments of Finance and Goods Price of Phu Yen Province
To be responsible for issuing detailed compensation unit prices applied in the
provincial area. During the implementation process, Department of Finance-Goods
Price needs to make cooperation with other departments such as Construction
Department, Land Department, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
and People's Committee of District where the project constructed in order to
establish the compensation unit price for premises, land, trees and crops.
*: Provincial Compensation Committee (PCC) of Phu Yen Province
PCC are consulting institutions for provinces about RAP approval, are
responsible for implementing RAP according to the approved schedule. Provincial
Resettlement will be headed by Vice Chairmen of Provincial People's Committees
Provincial Resettlement Committee is mainly responsible for:
* Assisting owner and compensation committees of district in preparing
detailed plans for compensation and resettlement.
* Checking all inventory of impacts and detailed implementation plans
submitted by Compensation Committees of districts. Approval for implementation
plans within 10 days after receiving the plans submitted by District Resettlement
Committees.
* Checking and submitting RAP implementation plans in province to PPC
for approval.
* Directing and monitoring RAP implementation in province according to
the approved schedule and policy.
* Solving complaints if the redress is fail at the district level.
* Compensation payment for PAPs via Resettlment Committee of Phu Hoa
District
Provincial Compensation Committee will consist the representatives of:
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       16



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
* Checking the unit prices of compensation as used in RAP, suggest for
adjusting the unit prices in conformation with market prices/ replacement costs (if
required).
* Co-ordination with PMB, organize the meetings with PAPs, communes,
disseminate the RIB, DMS and entitlement forms to PAPs.
* Inventory of project affected households in the district to submit the
provincial Resettlement Commitee
* Based on the policy and approved process in RAP, preparing the detailed
implementation plan and together with PMB pay entitlements to PAPs in a timely
manner.
* Directing the compensation works and allowances for PAPs on schedule
* Settling the complaints and grievances of PAPs, solving any difficulties
during the implementation period, and suggest the solutions for the outstanding
issues to Provincial Resettlement Committees and Owner.
* Making monthly report and send them to Provincial Resetthment
Committee, Owner and Chairmen of PC of Phu Hoa District.
Resettlement Committee of district will be headed by Vice Chairmen of
district. The Resettlement Committee of district will be consisted of the following
departments/ offices:
- Representative of Economic Office
- Representative of Agricultural and Rural Development Office
- Representative of Statistic Office
- Representative of Industrial Office
- Representative of Hoa Quang Bac Commune
- Representative of PAPs
Staffs of District Resettlement Committee will be concurrently having many
works during the project implementation, enjoy allowances according to province's
decisions. Only some members will be contracted to work regularly.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       18



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
* People's Committee of Hoa Quang Bac Commune
* Contributing to census and inventory surveys.
* Co-ordinate with District Resettlement Committees for public meetings,
information dissemination, compensation/ allowance payment to PAPs, for
classification and defining conformation to regulations of impacted assets.
*Assisting local people in overcoming the difficulties during the construction
period assist PAPs in repairing of affected houses. Organizing information
dissemination and policies in RAP for PAPs.
Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
* PAPs are responsible for carefully checking on their lost assets and
respective entitlements and clearing land in a timely manner once PAPs receive full
entitlements.
* Submitting their needs to responsible institutions and monitoring RAP
implementation
PMB and Phu Yen Province will arrange adequate and experience staff to
make sure that RAP will be implemented smoothly as approved schedules.
2.3 STAFFING ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBLES
Table 2.1: Responsibilities of RAP implementing Institutions
No.             Activities                       Institutions
Organizing meetings with PAPs to Compensation Committee
1   disseminate information about RAP
Monitoring    and     approving Project  Management    Board  and
impacted  households  and  their Resettlement Committee of Phu Hoa
2   assets                          District  coordinate  with  People's
Committee of Hoa Quang Bac
Commune.
Project Management Board, Land
Clearance Committee coordinate with
3   Detailed measurement survey     People's Committee of Hoa Quang
Bac Commune and relevant Units of
local authority.
4   Informing for PAPs              Project Management Board
D-ecision   on     compensation Compensation Committees
_   problems
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        19



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
6   Compensation payment           Compensation Committee and Project
Management Board
7   Internal Monitoring            Project Management Board
Department of Natural Resources and
Environment and provincial socio -
8   Independent Monitoring         science Units selected by Project
Management Board.
2.4 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
This is a project with loan from World Bank so the legal grounds applied
will be a combination of Vietnam and WB policies.
a. The Legal Documents of the Government of Vietnam
According to Vietnam Law on land passed by National Assembly Term XI,
Session IV on November 26th, 2003 and come into force from July l", 2004.
Article 5: Land Tenure
1. Land is subject to the ownership of all people and the State is the owner's
representative.
2. The State carries out land decision right as follows:
a. Deciding the land using purpose via the decision, approval of land using
plan (hereinafter called plan, land using plan).
b. Regulating land delivery limit and land using period.
c. Deciding land delivery, land leasing, land recovery and permit the
changing of land using purpose.
d. Fixing land price.
3. The Stated carries out the regulating right of income sources from land via
financial policies about land as follows:
a. Collecting land use charge, land leasing charge.
b. Collecting land use tax, income tax from land use right transfer.
c. Regulating on the value added part from land not due to investments of
land user.
4. The State grants LUR for land user via forms of land delivery, land
leasing, acknowledging LUR  for stable land users; stipulating right and
responsibility of land user.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      20



Resettlement Achon Plan (RAP)
Article 7: The State carries out the owner representative right of all people
about land and implements common state administration about land.
1. The National Assembly passes law on land, decides the plan and land use
plan of the whole country, carrying out the supreme supervision right towards the
land administration and use in the whole country.
2. The Government decides the plan and land use plan of provinces, Central
cities and the plan, land use plan on the purpose of defense, security; implements
common state administration about land in all country.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible with GOV
concerning the state administration about land.
3. People's Councils of all levels carry out the supervision right on land law
implementation in local section.
4. People's Committees of all levels carry out the representative right of land
owner and right of state administration about land at local section as per the
competence stipulated by law.
In addition, other legal documents are also applied such as:
* Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP issued by GOV on December 3rd, 2004
regulates compensation, resettlement support for recovered land by GOV.
* Circular No.1 16/2004/TT-BTC issued December 7i, 2004 by the Ministry of
Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP
issued by GOV on December 3rd, 2004 regulates compensation, resettlement
support for recovered land by GOV.
* Decree No 188/20041ND-CP of November 16th, 2004 on the stipulation of
method to determine the land price and the frame for the price of land types.
* Circular No.1 14/2004/TT-BTC issued November 16 h, 2004 by the Ministry
of Finance provides guidelines to implement Decree No 188/2004/ND-CP of
November 16th, 2004 on the sfipulation of method to determine the land price
and the frame for the price of land types.
* Decree No.181/2004/ND-CP issued by the GOV concerning the
implementation of Land Law.



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
* The Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8th, 1999 on the protection of
the high voltage networks.
. Decree No.1 18/2004/ND-CP dated May 10th, 2004 regarding the amendment
of some articles in Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
* Law on Petition and Accusation approved by National Assembly on
December 02, 1998
* Decree No. 67/1999/ND - CP, issued by GOV on 7/81999 regulates in detail
the Law on Petition and Accusation.
b. World Bank Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
* The primary objective of this policy is to ensure that PAPs who have lost
assets are compensated at replacement cost and are provided with recovery
measures to help them improve better or at least maintain their standard of life and
their income capacity as in pre-project conditions.
* The policy framework is established based on the principles and objectives,
selection criteria for PAPs, entitlements, legal framework and institutions, mode of
rehabilitation and compensation, the participation of people. Furthermore,
procedures of grievance will be guided in the process of compensation, resettlement
and rehabilitation for PAPs.
c. Comparison between Government of Vietnam and World Bank
Approaches
* There are a number of ways in which the approaches of the Vietnam
Government - both in policy and practice - are compatible with World Bank
guidelines so that PAPs can have legitimate entitlements. The most important
compatibilities are:
* Vietnam has a process whereby most people without legal land rights may
meet conditions of legalization and receive compensation for losses.
* Permanent residents are provided with options that include relocation to an
improved site, or cash, or a combination of the two.
* Resettlement sites offer not only better-improved infrastructure and services
but also represent a higher standard of living.



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
* Allowances are provided to help the PAPs in the transition period and there
is an institutional structure through which people are informed, can negotiate
compensation, and can appeal.
Differences between the approaches and measures that need to be addressed
within the program also exist. However, in this context, procedures exist within
national and City governments that allow the granting of waivers of domestic law
on specific projects that may be in conflict with that of the funding agency.
d. Required Waivers
In order to meet the requirements of the World Bank OD4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement a number of articles in various Vietnamese laws and regulations
which do not ensure compensation at replacement cost or set eligibility provisions
which do not extend the right to rehabilitation and or assistance to households
without proper land paper, will be waived.
* Price of Land for Calculation of Compensation
According to Vietnam regulations, the calculation of land price for
compensation will be based on Decree 188/2004/ND-CP, Decree 181/2004/ND-CP,
etc and Circulars No. 116/2004/TT-BTC, No.1 14/2004/TT-BTC.
To ensure that the objectives of the project resettlement policy are met, unit
price for land compensation established by the People's Committee of Phu Yen
Province will be adjusted to meet at replacement costs.
The Item 4, Article 2 of Decree 17/2001/ND-CP dated May 04, 2001 to
guide on the ODA management stipulates that "in the case of the intemational
agreements on ODA have been signed between GOV and sponsor stipulates other
contents, then that intemational agreements will be followed".



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 3
ENTITLEMENT POLICY
3.1 DEFINITION OF ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATION TO ELIGIBILITY
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) including people confmned by data collected
from the survey and investigation process as follows:
- PAPs have land or cultivalted land which are partially or totally affected
(temporarily or permanently) by the project.
- PAPs have crops (annual and perennial) and trees which are partially or
totally affected by the project.
- Encroachers who settled into the proposed affected area after the cut-off date
(March 22nd, 2004) will have no entitlement to compensation and resettlement.
They will be required to demolish their structure and cut the trees or harvest their
crops for land clearance to the project. In the case necessary, they will be forced to
be removed out of the proposed project area. Nevertheless, they do not have to pay
any fine or sanction.
3.2 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION PRINCIPLES
The compensation and resettlement plan is established based on fundamental
principles, i.e conforming to laws, decrees, policies regulated by Vietnamese
Government and WB's guidelines consisting of:
1. Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be
minimized as much as possible.
2. All DP's residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in
construction site (substation areas, access roads) under the project as of the
date of the baseline surveys are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation
measures sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-
project living standards, income earning capacity and production levels.
Lack of legal rights to the assets lost should not bar the DP from
entitlement to such rehabilitation measures.



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
3. The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) compensation at
agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to the DPs
or in cash at replacement cost according to DP's choice ; (ii) replacement of
residential/premise land of equal size acceptable to the DP or in cash at
replacement cost according to DP's choice ; and (iii) transfer and
subsistence allowances.
4. Location of resettlement and relocation should be as close as possible to
existing residential area of PAPs.
5. The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the rehabilitation
means will be provided to the PAPs not over one month prior to the
expected start-up date of works in the respective Project site.
6. The standard of life, the infrastructure of community must be maintained or
improved better than their prior place.
7. Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design, planning,
consultation and implementation of RAP.
8. Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP will be carried out.
3.3 ELIGIBILITY TO COMPENSATION ENTITLEMENT
Legitimate PAPs are all the affected households and institutions included in
the inventory with or without legal title included in the RAP inventory or able to
demonstrate with other means that prior to RAP cut-off date they owned, rented or
used land, and properties associated with land as defined in 3.1 item
3.4 ENTITLEMENT POLICY
DP's will be entitled to the following types of rehabilitation and assistance measures:
* PAP's losing agricultural land and crops
(i)   The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural
land will be through provision of "land for land" arrangements of
equal productive capacity, satisfactory to the PAP.
However, if the PAP prefers to receive cash compensation then
the following applies:
FS on Tuv Hoa 220kV substation                                        25



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
-     if the portion of the land to be lost represents 25% or less
than 25% of the total area of the landholding, and the
remaining land is still a viable economic holding, cash
compensation, at full replacement cost, may be provided to
the PAP; or
I - if more than 25% of a villager's agricultural land is
acquired and the remaining holding is not viable then the
Project will acquire the entire landholding and provide
cash compensation at full replacement cost.
(ii)  PAP's will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit
or industrial trees at market price. Productive trees will be
compensated at replacement cost. Fruit trees will be compensated
for the remaining harvests.
(iii) PAP's whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the
each sub-Project will be compensated for their loss of income,
standing crops and for the cost of soil restoration and damaged
infrastructure. Land will be rehabilitated after the project
construction by PMB.
Pursuant to Decree 197/2004/ND-CP issued by the GOV concerning
compensation, resettlement support for recovered land by GOV, then PAPs will be
supported as follows:
- As per Article 28: Restoration allowance
Households, people directly make agricultural production, when being
recovered more than 30% area of assigned agricultural land, will be supported for
stabilizing the life within 3 months without relocation and within 6 months with
relocation; in case relocate in areas with difficult or especially difficult socio-
economical conditions then the support time is maximum of 12 months. The
support level in cash for one person per month equivalent to 30 kg of rice calculated
as per the average price in local region.
When the GOV recovers land of economical entities, registered business
households and causes business pausing, the maximum support level is 30% of an
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        26



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
annual income after tax, according to the average income of three subsequent years
before confirmed by the tax agency. The support level in details are regulated by
Provincial PC in accordance with the local reality.
- As per Article 29: Support for changing the career and creating
employment
Households, people directly make agricultural production, when being
recovered more than 30% area of assigned agricultural land, will be supported for
changing the career for people in the age of labour. The support level in details are
regulated by Provincial PC in accordance with the local reality.
- As per Article 31: Support level when recovering the public land of
communes, wards or towns
- Other support such as beside the support regulated in Articles 27, 28, 29,
30 and 31 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP, pursuant to the local actual situation, the
Chairman of Provincial PC decides the other support measures to ensure the life and
production stabilization for people who were recovered the land; in special cases,
this will be submitted to the Prime Minister for decision.
Forms of subsidy and bonus for PAPs
Type of subsidy                       Amount
- Subsidy for life and production 30 kg of rice/month/person within 3
stabilization.                   months if not displace; within 6 months
if displacing the accommodation and
within 12 months if displacing to the
difficult accommodation.
Supporting 30% of the income in one
year if affecting to the business.
- Support for changing the career and The impacted household losing over 30%
creating employment               area of the agricultural production land
will be supported for changing career.
- Other subsidy levels            Due to the decision of the Chairman of
Provincial PC.



Resettlement Acfion Plan (RAP)
others living mainly in mountainous districts: Song Hinh, Dong Xuan, Son Hoa with
irregular distribution. The population living in countryside is 81.1%, city is 18.9%
Socio-economic development objectives in the period 2000 - 2010
- GDP growth rate on average annually 12 -13%.
- GDP per capita on average in 2010 reaching 700 -800 USD.
- Export turnover striving to reach 30 millions USD in 2010.
- Budget revenue striving to reach 12% GDP in 2010.
- Population increase rate will be reduced to 1.7% in the period 2001 - 2010.
4.3 PROJECT IMPACTS
Categories of Project impacts:
Safe corridor for the line route is defined on the Decree No.54-1999/ND-CP
dated 8 July 1999 by Gov on security protection for high voltage power network
and Decree No.11 8/2004/ND-CP dated May 10, 2004 regarding the amendment of
some articles in No.54-1999/ND-CP dated July 8th, 1999.
Investigation and statistic of project impacts are carried out from 2004,
results of surveys is as follows:
Permanently acquisition land for construction of substation are mainly
agricultural land hilly waste land.
Affected trees are wet rice and some of short-day crops.
Total acquisition land is 31,095.5 m2. where:
- Land area for planted rice and irrigation canal: 18,335.3 mr.
- Land area for hilly waste land:        12,760.2 m2.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       30



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 5
*                   PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
5.1 Objectives of information campaign and consultation program
Information dissemination to consultation with and participation of the
affected people and involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts (ii)
minimize the risk of project delays and (iii) enable the project to design the
resettlement and rehabilitation program as a comprehensive development program
to fit the needs and priorities of the affected people thereby maximizing the
economic and social benefits of the project investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and PAP Consultation
Program are as follows:
* To share fully information about the proposed project its components and
its activities with the affected people.
* To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and
communities required to be undertaken for resettlement planning and
*           implementation.
* To ensure transparency in all activities related to land recovering,
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation for PAPs.
* To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the affected people
as well as information about their reaction/feedback to proposed policies and
activities.
PAPs will be entitled to participate in different stages during the process of
investigation, survey, RAP preparation and implementation. They will be invited to
participate in meetings organized by the owner and local authorities in order to offer
opinions on replacement alternatives, entitlement policies, listening to procedures,
process of grievance implementation, responsibility of competent institutions and
responsibility of PAPs during the process of RAP implementation.
5.2 INFORMATION CAMPAIGN, PAPs & AGENCY CONSULTATION
There are two phases of the public information campaign and RAP
consultation:
PZ nn T7nu Rnn If&Vl v7lh-vtnfinn                                   31



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Phase 1:
During RAP planning and survey, make interviews with PAPs for their
expectation and selection of compensation measures. During the process of
investigation, make coordination with local authorities for agreement on substation
site selection.
Phase 2:
After RAP's approval, PMB and local authorities will organize meetings
with PAPs to announce infonnation of project, compensation policy and
entitlement, replacement solutions, allowances, subsidy mentioned in RAP plan.
To ensure that PAPs, their representatives and local governments of the
affected areas fully understand on the details of RAP, PMB will also announce to
all PAPs the compensation and rehabilitation policy applied in the project before
making compensation and resettlement payment for PAPs.
The RIB will contain information on the followings:
Part 1      - Project description.
- Project objectives
- Implementation schedule
- Project impacts
- Entitlements policy for the project affected people
- Institutions are responsible for resettlement
Part 2      - Specific entitlements of PAPs
- Description of the detailed impact of the project on the specific
household
- Compensation rates for each type of impact
- Legality and Eligibility to compensation
- Resettlement and rehabilitation alternatives.
- Implementation schedule for compensation and resettlement
5.3 INFORMATION DISSEMINATION AND PAP's CONSULTATION
According to policy applied in this project, all PAPs are entitled to project
information, entitlement to compensation. All PAPs have the right to take part in
RAP implementation to ensure that they enjoy proper compensation.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       32



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
PAPs will be informed and consulted through the following stages:
+ Staffs of PMBs, Resettlement Committees of Phu Yen Province, Phu Hoa
district and Hoa Quang Bac Commune authorities had defined, inventoried the
structures, land, houses and crops, tress affected by the project with the help of
PAPs as well as the public structures affected.
+ PMB and Provincial Resettlement Committee will organize meetings with
PAPs, officially informed the participants of the project puRAPoses. PAPs will be
asked for their opinions, their options for compensation modes.
The first time:
It is expected to organize before carrying out the compensation payment
works with the above mentioned content, but the compensation policy is pressed in
order to take advantage of PAP's participation, ensure the fair and adequacy of
inventory and survey work
Participants'are:
- Representative of PMB
- Representative of Provincial Resettlement Committee of Phu Yen
- Representative of Phu Hoa District
- Representative of Hoa Quang Bac Commune
- PAPs or their representatives
- Representatives of PECC4
The metings are organized with the affected households with time and
composition as proposed:
+ Cadres of PECC4 state the project objectives, make detailed description of
the project impact on land, agricultural crops, the policies, priciples of
implementation as well as inform the policies of compensation about properties,
land, agricultural crops of the project Compensation Committee.
+ Reference to opinions during the project execution stage
+ General information on the project
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       33



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Right after signing credit agreement and preparation for project
commencement, the Project Management Board will organize meetings with
involved Provincial People's Committees of Binh Dinh, Phu Yen and Khanh Hoa,
and Quy Nhon city; District People's Committees of Song Cau, Tuy An, Tuy Hoa,
Phu Hoa, Van Ninh, Ninh Hoa and Nha trang city located along the transmission
route so as to inform them about the project policy, suggesting them to coordinate
their activities in site clearance work.
+ General information on RAP
When carrying investigation on project impact, a campaign of information and
reference on opinions about RAP must be taken including: socio-economic
documents, investigation sheet on statistics of land, properties agricultural crops
being affected; giving directions about all necessary informations which must be
given on the investigation sheet; reunion of habitants to inform on policies of
compensation price, the progress of project for affected households and local
authorities.
+ Information spread on local multi-media means
The PMB works in cornbination with the local authorities for information on
multi-media means such as local radio system about the project such as the stages of
project development, information on RAP and project impact on the community in
the project area.
After obtaining the public comments, summarizing the results collected with
the agreement of local inhabitants in the project area and RAP is approved,
compensation measures will be carried out, and from then implementing the site
clearance work and preparing for work execution.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      34



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 6
GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS
The main objective of RAP implementation is to ensure the fair and
adequacy during compensation payment for PAPs. The resettlement and
compensation program should satisfy both parts: Owner and PAPs. Grievances and
complaints related to Project Owner and PAPs during RAP implementation. To
solve them timely and effectively, relevant institutions such as PMB, Resettlement
Committees of Phu Hoa District and Phu Yen Province need to respond to the
complaints of the PAPs speedily and sensibly, avoid project delays and difficulty
for PAPs. The solution should be agreed by PAPs
During the project implementation, PAP's complaints and grievances will be
dealt with according to the regulation of Vietnamese laws. PAPs raising complaints
will be treated fairly and guided by related agencies on the order, procedures and
complaints of RAP, in addition no fee will be paid for their complaints.
Since the entire resettlement and rehabilitation program is being carried out
with the participation of the PAPs. However, to ensure that the PAPs have avenues
for redressing their grievances related to any aspect of compensation and
resettlement, detailed procedures of redresses of grievances have been established
for the project. The mechanism is designed to be easy, transparent and fair.
The procedures are asfollows:
Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of RAP's, including the
determined area and price of the lost assets, will be handled as follows:
First step:
If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and
rehabilitation program, he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance with commune
authorities. Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within fifteen
days from the date it receive the complaint.
Second step:
If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she
can bring the complainto the District People's Committee (DPC) or District
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       35



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Resettlement Committee (DRC) within fifteen days from the date of the receipt of
the decision in stage 1. The District People's Committee (DRC) or District
Resettlement Committee (DRC) will reach a decision on the complaint within
fifteen days.
Third step:
If the PAP is still not satisfied with the decision at district level, he/she can
appeal to the Provincial People's Committee (PCC) or Provincial Resettlement
Committee (PRC) within 15 days of receiving the decision of the DPC or DRC.
The Provincial People's Committee (PRC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee
(CRC) will reach a decision on the complaint within fifteen days.
Fourth step:
If the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of the Provincial level, the case may
be submitted for consideration by the District Court within 15 days of receiving the
decision of the PPC or PRC.
PAP's will be exempted from all administrative and legal fees.
Coercion for site clearance can not be applied while PAPs are waiting for
solving the complaints.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the commune
and processed. Commune People's Committee will resolve the issue within 02
weeks.
In case of PAPs are illiterate persons, they can make an oral complaint with
the representatives of affected households and their representatives will record all
queries to submit to authority levels.
Every authority level will resolve the complaints as per the time regulated
above.
The disputes are organized publicly and implemented in accordance with law.
Detailed procedures for redress of grievances and appeal process shown publicized
among the PAPs during participation meetings and also in the offices of RBs.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                         36



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 7
MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Implementation of RAPs will be regularly supervised and monitored by the
respective PCs/PMB in coordination with the respective District and Communes
Peoples' Committees and Communes. The findings will be recorded in quarterly
reports to be furnished to EVN or MOI.
7.1. INTERNAL MONITORING & SUPERVISION
Internal supervision and monitoring include the following activities:
- Verify that the baseline information of all PAP's has been carried out and
that the valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation,
resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in accordance
with the provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective RAP.
- Oversee that the Inventories and RAP's are implemented as designed and
approved.
- Verify that funds for implementing the Inventories and RAP's are provided
to the respective PMBs at local level (provincial/district) in a timely manner and in
amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are used by the respective
PMB's in accordance with the provisions of RAP.
- Record all grievances and their resolution and ensure that complaints are dealt
with in a timely manner.
7.2. Independent monitoring
An independent agency or individual consultant will be retained by PMB of
the MOI and EVN to periodically carry out external monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP's. The independent agencies will be academic or research
institutions, non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) or independent consulting
firms, all with qualified and experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to the
World Bank.
In addition to verifying the information furnished in the internal supervision
and monitoring reports of the respective PMBs, the external monitoring agency will
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      37



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
visit a sample of 20% of household PAPs in each relevant province six months after
each RAP implementation to:
- Determine whether the procedures for PAPs participation and delivery of
compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements has been done in accordance with
this Policy Framework and RAP.
- Assess if the Policy Framework objective of enhancement or at least
restoration of living standards and income levels of PAPs have been met.
- Gather qualitative indications of the social and economic impact of Project
implementation on the PAPs.
- Suggest modification in the implementation procedures of RAPs, as the case
may be, to achieve the principles and objectives of this Policy Framework.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        38



Resettlement Acton Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 8
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION ON
COMPENSATION AND RESETTLEMENT PLAN
8.1. MEASURES FOR THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8.1.1. Announcement to PAPs
All PAPs shall be thorough infonned about the rights and policies of RAP
including entitlement policies, rate of compensation for every type of impact, the
active participation right in land acquisition process, complaint and grievance. RAP
infonnation will be prepared by PMB and announced to all PAPs or informed at the
meetings in province, district and commune levels; on television, radio, newspaper,
hung in public places such as administrative quarters of communes and schools.
Public announcement tasks shall be implemented immediately after EVN and
WB's approval of project is obtained. The information announced consists of:
+ Schedule of project implementation
+ Eligibility and non-eligibility to compensation and resettlement
+ The compensation principle: only make compensation for households using
land before inventory making and the official announcement about land acquisition
of State.
8.1.2. Compensation deadlines
The project impacts conclude households with areas of agricultural land
affected permanently. PAPs agreed to receive compensation amount so the RAP is
carried out in package to PAPs. Compensation payment for land, assets, paddy and
crops; land delivery for resettlement should be done at least 02 months before the
project land acquisition.
PAPs will receive subsidies at the beginning of months and after their
receiving, they will have to transfer land for Site Clearance Board at least one
month before construction time.
8.2. RAP implementation process
RAP implementation will be included in 3 acfions as below:
+ General action: Just at once when beginning the project implementation work
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       39



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
+ Separately action: at several times, once for each component of the project
+ Continuously action: Continuously action for the stages of RAP
implementation.
Basic actions of the prolect
Action 1:
After RAP approved, PMB hires qualified agency for independent
monitoring, this agency must be approved by EVN and WB
Action 2:
Provincial authorities and PMB are required to supply Resettlement
Committees with fully costs and declare the tasks for RAP implementation.
Action 3:
District Resettlement Committees carry out the Detail Measurement Survey
of affected assets and socio-economic conditions, determining the compensation
unit price and if necessary, checking and readjusting it in order to make
compensation at market price and conversion price.
Action 4:
Immediately the ends of final inventory survey, Resettlement Committees
of Districts will inspect and define the official number of PAPs, impacted properties
and total compensation amount for PAPs.
Action 5:
Resettlement Committees will officially announce the RAP policy, schedule
of project implementation and information for RAP to PAPs at public meetings
including issues related to compensation, resettlement and land clearance.
Action 6:
It is suggested to give priority to compensation payment for households with
permanent impacts, assisting them in transferring the production mode and
mechanism or with land for resettlement and life stabilizing. After that, making
compensation payment for PAPs affected on other properties.
Action 7:
During the project implementation, Independent and Internal Monitoring
Institutions will supervise/ monitor all actions of RAP implementation, at the same
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       40



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
time giving proposals, discussions or report the changes during project
implementation as well as suggest solutions.
8.3. RAP implementation schedule
RAP will be implemented as per the schedule established to ensure the site
clearance work and schedule on project construction.
Payment of rehabilitation and furnishing of other restoration/assistance
entitlements is made in cash.
Organizational arrangement
Power companies and all project provinces will arrange full experienced
staffs to ensure that RAP will be implemented smoothly as per the accepted
schedule.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                           41



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 9
COST AND BUDGETS
9.1. BUDGETS
Budget for RAP implementation will be shareholder equity and capital from
loans WB. EVN entrusted Central Power Projects Management Board (CPPMB)
with management and directing project's activities as well as project finance
management.
CPPMB has coordinated with the Resettlement Committees of Phu Yen
Province, Resettlement Committees of Phu Hoa district, departments of Prices and
Finance and People's Committees at all levels to implement compensation payment.
9.2. COMPENSATION UNIT COST ESTIMATE
Compensation cost estimate for pernanent impacted agricultural land, trees
and crops based on:
- The Government Decree No 188/2004/ND-CP of November 16th, 2004
on the stipulation of the frame for the price of land types.
- Decision No.4381/2004/QD-UB dated 23 December 2004 of People's
Committee of Phu Yen Province.
Compensation unit price categories recommended in this project are as
follows:
9.2.1. Compensation pricefor land
Compensation unit price of different types of land as follows:
Table 9.2.1. Compensation unit cost for land (VND/m2)
No.               Types of land              Unit Price   Note
1 Agricultural land                           20,000
2  Wild land                                  10,000
9.2.2 Compensation price for trees and crops
Compensation for trees and crops in ROW and substation site.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                       42



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Prices and Financial Department of Phu Yen Province in coordination with
relevant local authorities will be responsible for offering the rational compensation
costs for project impacts.
Table 9.2.2. Compensation unit cost for trees, crops (VND/m2)
No.    Type    Unit Price   Note
1 |Paddy           4,000
9.3 IMPLEMENTATION COSTS
9.3.1. Cost for RAP establishment
Cost for RAP establishment consists of:
- Preparation work: cost for document study, translation, preparation of
forms for socio-economic survey and PAPs 'inventory.
- Site survey work: census and inventory performed together with local
authority, for detailed measurement of PAPs. To work with local
authority for collecting compensation unit cost.
- Summarize data for establishment of report.
- Report works of units and Phu Yen Province, PMB and EVN
Total RAP preparartion cost: 44,595,686 VND
Total RAP preparation cost is mentioned in Total investment cost (see in detailed
draft for RAP preparation cost of the projects.
9.3.2. Compensation cost
Based on the impacted categories and extent of project impacts which
described in the above chapters, compensation costs consisting of:
- Compensation for permanently land acquisition for construction of
substation, control house and house for operating workers.
- Compensation for paddy affected in the project area.
- Subsidy for PAPs as stipulated in law.
9.3.3 Management cost
Management cost consists of:
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        43



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
- Cost for staff of PMB and Compensation Committees includes in: physical
basis, salary and allowance for administration organization. Organizations of
Compensation Committees will be concurrently having many works during
the project implementation, only some members will be contracted to work
regularly.
- Cost for meetings, information notification to PAPs or their representatives.
- Total management cost is estimated at about 1% of total cost of compensation
for project impacts as defined in items 9.3.2
9.3.4 Supervision cost
When carry out the project, PMB will signed a contract with independent
monitoring institution(s). Total supervision cost is estimated at about 2% of total
cost of compensation and RAP preparation as defined in item 9.3.1. and 9.3.2.
9.3.5 Contingency cost
It is learned from the implemented projects and from the conservative side,
the rate for contingency is estimated about 10% of total cost of compensation and
RAP preparation as defined in item 9.3.1. and 9.3.2.
9.3.6 Total compensation cost for project
Total compensation cost for project: VND 697,805,200
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                        44



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
CHAPTER 10
CONCLUSION AND PROPOSALS
10.1. Conclusion
After investigation, summing up data on damages in the ROW and susbtation
site, consulting opinions of the relevant local authorities and community of affected
households. Through the making of RAP, we have the following conclusions:
* As the secure corridor of route line and construction site of substation
spreading on the area of Phu Hoa District, at deployment of compensation and
making land clearance works of the project, the relevant local committees and
services have to work in combination to ensure favourable results.
* Report on determination of land surface, trees and agricultural crops being
affected by the project.
* Summing up report and calculation on damages due to the project, then
bringing up common compensation price.
* Study and submission of RAP planning for community of affected
inhabitants.
10.2. Proposals
* Deep and broad propagation of informations on the project by multi-media
system, etc.. .to the habitants in order to minimize the negative impact of
individuals profiting of the standpoint, investment policy of the government.
* The Project Management Committee, Resettlement Committee and
Compensation Committee have to inspect closely the execution of compensation
and land clearance works in preparation of work execution.
* Appointment of a standing team to solve in time the complaints and claims
of affected households.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                      45



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
APPENDICES
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                              46



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
ANNEX 1: ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
N    Type of    Application  Definition of               Compensation Policy                      Implementation Issues
0      loss                  entitled DPs
I  Permanent    All PAPs     DPs
land         haveland    with/without  For PAP losing productive land:                  - Consultation for PAP's options on
acquisition  and assets  land
due      to on            certificate  a   Land loss less than 25% of their total landholdings land compensation.
construction  permanently  included  in  .                       ~~~~- PMB and local authorities determine
construction  permanently  included  in - Cash compensation for the lost area if the remaining and ensure that compensation will be at
of substation affected   the inventory plot is still economically viable.               replacement   cost at the time of
and access to land due to  or  able  to                                                 payment.
the          construction  prove  land                                                    paent.
substation.  of          occupancy      - Cash compensation for the whole impacted plot if - Replacement land, and resettlement
substation   prior to cut- the remaining plot is not economically viable.  sites development.
and access   off date (there                                               - PAPs receiving compensation will
road to the  are       27                                                   demolish  the  impacted  areas  and
substation.  affected      - Cash compensation for properties associated with reconstruct/or improve their houses
households.   land                                            themselves.
b. Land loss equal or more than 25% of their total - Full compensation for trees and fruit
landholdings:                                 trees to PAPs at least 01 month before
land clearance. If PAP is requested for
PAP can opt for the followings:           cutting affected trees, PMB will pay
i)"Land for land" with the same area and productive  mong salvageable trees.
of impacted area if the remaining plots are still using
economically viable and  for the whole impacted - Full compensation for impacted house
plots if the remaining plots are not economically and allowances  to PAPs at least 05
viable.                                         months before land clearance.
ii) Cash for land at the replacement cost.      - No award civil work contract before
completion  of    compensation  and
- Compensation for trees and affected fruit trees at the reorganizing houses or relocation.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                              47



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
N    Type of    Application  Definition of               Compensation Policy                      Implementation Issues
0      loss                  entitled DPs
replacement cost.                               - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by
- Rehabilitation assistance.                    PMB and RCs
For PAP losing Residential and garden land:     -  Finance/ land     available  for
- If remaining land is sufficient for reorganizing compensation! rehabilitation and  well
(more than 60 m2 in the urban area and 100 m2 in the information disclose! disseminate:
rural area): Cash compensation for lost area and -. PMB  consult with PAP who are
assets associated with land.                    eligible to rehabilitation for their options
- If   remaining   land   is not sufficient for and prepare proposal for rehabilitation
reorganizing:                                   programs  in  the  period  of  RAP
PAP can opt for i) cash compensation at replacement implementation.
cost for land and assets on land, or ii) "land for land" - PAPs will be granted with Land Use
compensation for the whole residential area which Right Certificate
PAP occupied (not only for the impacted areas) and without payment of administrative fees.
properties associated with occupied land.
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                              48



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Annex 2: Cost estimate for compensation of Tuy Hoa 220kV substation
No.           Items           Unit   Quantity  Unit Price      Total
(VND)
Costs for compensation of                                567,649,200
land, paddy and crops
Cost   for  transfer  of
I   permanently land use right:  mr  18,335.3   20,000       366,706,000
agricultural land
Cost   for  transfer  of
2   permanently land use right:  m2  12,760.2   10,000        127,602,000
wild land
3   Cost for compensation of   rn    18,335.3   4,000         73,341,200
paddy and crops
Costs for Compensation                                     5,676,492
Committee 1% (I)
III Total (1+11)                                              573,325,692
Total cost for RAP implementation of Tuy Hoa 220kV substation
No.             Items                    Total            Note
No.   Items                   ~~~~(VND)
1 Costs for compensation                 573,325,692
2 Costs for RAP preparation               44,595,686
Total cost for compensation and        617,921,378
3 RAP preparation
4 Management cost                          5,733,257
5 Supervision cost                        12,358,428
6 Reserved cost                           61,792,138
7 Total cost for RAP implementation      697,805,200
bS n" Tin) UIn" ),)nL-L   -, s7htntion                              0



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Annex 3: Inventory of Project Affected Households for 220kV Tuy Hoa substation
Phu Yen Province        Phu Hoa District     Hoa Quang Bac Commune         Mau Lam Bac Village- Commune People's Committee
Loss of                     Temporary
Loss of Assets             Loss of Crops    Other assets  Other Losses     Losses
No. of   Total   Land to be  L    Number Structures Structures  Area of  Fruit  Paddy      Eg.,                        (specify)
iey                                  2 LADss as  andtype pamquiredresideasia   trees  area    Ohr    Tombs, well, Residence Business Income
iesn s To Ld nhlig acurdi    of     of lost  (in)   (in'ar  land lost  lost  (inc)  (reeced)y)  0o. &tss
Name of Head of       ofHhold  Hhold in m2  byutie  tot  structures        (ind    Typ1e  ae)     ther  eN.      Re
Household                                                                        and
Number
Vo Dieu               8     11.900       36     0.3    =      =       =                =       36                      ===                    -
Nguyn Duy Tan         6     10.250    612.8    5.98                                         612.8
_   Nguyen Dinh Phiuc     7     6.300      497     7.88                                          497 .
Communal
People's                            12,760.2
_   Committee                            ,
Communal
People's                              4.896                                                 4.896
Committee
_   Nguyen Kiem           8     8.000      209     2.61   =       =       =               =      209
Lu Viet Hing          6      2000     152.5   7.625                                         152.5
_   Nguyen Van Ly         4     3.560       105    2.95   =       =       =               =      105                      =      =     =
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                   51



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Phu Yen Province                 Phu Hoa District               Hoa Quang Bac Commune Thach Lam Village
Loss of Other                               Temporary
Loss of Assets                         Loss of Crops           assets Eg.,          Other Losses            Losses
No. of      Total      and to be  Loss as  Number and   Structures Structures  Area of  Fruit trees  Paddy area         Tombs, well,                                (specify)
irvey                             Landholding acquired in   % of    type of lost  permanent temporary residential  lost Type  (2)       Other        etc.     Residence Business   Income     Number
!Jo.                     inpHold    of Hholdin  m2 by type  tot       structures     (mi)      (m2     land lost  and Number           (Speci      No.) ( ype   (rented)   Lost      Loss     and type of
in Bhold   2                                                                  2                              -iy)lost
Name of Head of                 m                                                                (m                                                                                   structures
Household                                                     .                           .                           .                            .                            .
-                       5       4.600        736         16                                                               736
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                                                    52



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
Phu Yen Province            Phu Hoa District            Hoa Quang Bac Commune                 Ngoc Son Village
Loss of                       Temnpora
Loss of Assets              Loss of Crops    Other assets   Other Losses      ry
Number  Structures Structures Area of  Fruit  Paddy area  Eg.,                         Losses
No. of   Total   Land to be Loss as %  and type of permanent temporary residenitial tree lost  (in)  OhrTombs, well, Residence Business Income  (specify)
~rvey                   prosLandholding acquired in  of     ls       m      .(2                           Others lpean  ec  (rented)  Lost  LOSS  Number
No.        Irhold. of Hhold                         o   Tmet  md t) |a srland ulTere                     (SPecil-y) (o.m &typl                  and type
Namne of Head of  inHod    m2 ~   2b ye    ttl~(n                                 ubrof lost
Household                                                                                                                             structure
5
0    Ph~aVan Lao           11     5.750     122    2.12  _                                          122                          _      = ==
Nguyen       VSn975
Trinh                  5     9.750     400      4.1                                            400
2    Huynh Chin             5     3.650    400     10.96                                            400                                1 r     _
3    Nguyen       Thi       5     2.550    300     11.76                                            300
4    Nguy n Triit           6     5.000    390      7.8                                             390 |
5    Nguyen Tai Soa         3     2.550    379     14.86   =        =       =      =                379 |
6    Huynh Van Lai          6     5.902     880    14.91                                            880 |
7    Nguy'enThi Lien        8     6.750   1.250    18.52                                           1.250
8    L Hy                   8     6.870    650     9.46                                             650 |
9    Huynh Van Hoa          5     4.400    600     13.64                                            600
0    LeTrongPhuang          6     6.750     800    11.85                                            800 |
7    Thoa                   4     2.650    400    15.09                                             400
2    Nguy nThl My           6     4.500    500     11.11  _                                         500 |
3    Nguyen     Trong       6     6.800     800    11.76 |00
4    Nguyen Phi H  ing      5L    3.600     527    14.64 |        _       _      _       _    |     527 |                 _      _      T       ____I
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                       53



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
15   Huynh Quynh        7    5.450    890   16.33 1      1      I   L;                890 r  AT    V    l     l     l
t6   NguyenVanAn        5    3.970    500   12.59 _      ______                       500 T     I             I     I 
!7   Trinu Thi HAong    4    2.250    384   17.07 |      |     |     |     |          384|
!8   Nguyen Thi Sang    7 |3420       419   12.25 |      l      l                     419 |     l____
!9                           260
FSon      Duy            2.600   500   19.23                                     500
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                           54



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Annex 4: Entitlements of Project Affected Households
Phu Yen Province Phu Hoa District Hoa Quang Bac Commune Mau Lam Bac Village- Communal Peoples's Committee
Compensation for Other
Compensation for Land   Compensation for Structures  Compensatin for Crops & Trees  Assets (pond, lake ...)
Survey   Name of Head of         Unit Price
No.        Household    Quantity Sq.  Sq.  Entitlement in  Quantity  Unit Entitlement Quantity  Unit  Entitlement in  Quantity  Unit Entitlement  Total in Dong
Meters   Meters    Dong      Sq.   Price  in Dong  Unit  Price in  Dong      Unit  Price  in Dong
Meters  Sq.                  Dong                      In
_______  ___________  _________               ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~Meters  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ Dong
I      V6 Dieu               36  20.000      720,000              ___         36   4,000    144,000                             864,000
2      Nguyen Duy Tan      612,8  20.000   12,256,000  6=I2, 8 4,000                       2,451,200  =      =               14,707,200
3      NguPhci    Din             20.000    9,940,000                         497  4,000   1,988,000                         11,928,000
4      Communal                   10.000
People's          12.760,2         127,602,000                                                                        127,602,000
Committee
5      Communfl1eo al      4.896  20.000  97,920,000                        4.896  4,000  19,584,000                        117,504,000
Committee                                                                                             _
6      Nguyen  em           209   20.000   4,180,000                          209  4,000    836,000                      1    5,016,000
7      LuT Via Humg        152,5  20.000   3,050,000                        152,5  4,000    610,000              ____         3,660,000
8      Nguyen Van Ly         105  20.000   2,100,000__     1 =  =             105  4,000    420,000    =     =                2,520,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                   55



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Phu Yen Province                  Phu Hoa District                    Hoa Quang Bac Commune                          Thach Lam Village
Compensation for Other
Compensation for Land         Compensation for Structures  Compensation for Crops & Trees    Assets (pond, lake ...)
Survey      Name of Head of                Unit Price                          Unit
No.            Household         Quantity     Sq.     Entitlement in  Quantity  Price  Entitlement  Quantity  Unit  Entitlement in  Quantity  Unit  Entitlement  Total in Dong
Sq. Meters   Meters       Dong         Sq.     Sq.    in Dong      Unit    Price in     Dong        Unit   Price in  in Dong
Meters  Meters                         Dong                            Dong
9        OD  Van Dung                736   20.000     14,720,000                                    736    4,000     2,944,000                                     17,664,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                                             56



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Phu Yen Province         Phu Hoa District          Hoa Quang Bac Commune              Ngoc Son Village
Compensation for Other
Compensation for Land  Compensation for Structures  Compensation for Crops & Tree  Assets (pond, lake )
Survey   Name of Head of        Unit Price                Unit
No.        Household    Quantity  Sq.   Entgtlement in Quantity Price Entitlement Quantity  Unit Entitlement in Quantity  Unit Entitlement  Total in Dong
Sq. Meters  Meters  Dong     Sq.   Sq.   iDog     Unit  Price in  Dong     Unit  Price  in Dong
Meters Meters  iDngDong                              In
10    Phan  Vn Lo          122  20.000   2,440,000  _     =_               122 4,000    488,000   _                       2,928,000
11    Nguyen Van Trinh     400  20.000   8,000,000  =     =                400  4,000  1,600,000                          9,600,000
12    Huynh Chin           400  20.000    8000,000                         400  4,000  1,600,000                          9,600,000
13    Nguygn               300  20.000   6,000,000                         300 4,000   1,200,000                          7,200,000
__ _ _ Siang                                                 __ _ _
14    Nguyen Trit          390  20.000   7,800,000                         390  4,000  1,560,000                          9,360,000
15    Nguyen Tai Soa       379  20.000   7,580,000                         379 4,000   1,516,000                          9,096,000
16    Huynh Van Loi        880  20.000  17,600,000                         880  4,000  3,520,000      _                  21,120,000
17    Nguyen Thi Lien     1.250  20.000  25,000,000                      1.250  4,000  5,000,000                         30,000,000
18    Le Hy                650  20.000  13,000,000                         650  4,000  2,600,000                         15,600,000
19    Huynh Van Hoa        600  20.000  12,000,000                     |   600  4,000  2,400,000                         14,400,000
20     Le Trong Phuang     800  20.000  16,000,000                         800  4,000  3,200,000                         19,200,000
21      Nguyen Thi Kirn    400  20.000   8,000,000                         400  4,000  1,600,000                          9,600,000
22    Nguyexn Thi My       500  20.000  10,000,000                         500  4,000  2,000,000                         12,000,000
23    Nguyen     TrQng     800  20.000  16,000,000                         800  4,000  3,200,000                         19,200,000
24    Nguyen Phi Hung      527  20.000  10,540,000                         527  4,000  2,108,000                         12,648,000
25    Huynh Quynh          890  20.000  17,800,000                         890  4,000  3,560,000 __21,360,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                57



Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
26    Nguyen Van An        500  20.000  10,000,000 |        =              500  4,000  2,000,000    =     =              12,000,000
27     Trieu Thi Hong      384  20.000   7,680,000      _                  384  4,000  1,536,000                          9,216,000
28    Nguyen Thi Sang      419  20.000   8,380,000                         419  4,000  1,676,000                         10,056,000
29    Tran Duy Phiong      500  20.000  10,000,000    =     =              500  4,000  2,000,000    =     =              12,000,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                58



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
Annex 5: Socio-Economic Household Data Sheet of Project Affected People
Phu Yen Province           Phu Hoa District           Hoa Quang Bac Commune
Estimated
No.                     Name of Household Member              Ethnic                         Occupation and Sources of  Employment  Total Income
Address of Household                       Sex     Age    Group         Education             Income                       per Year
Group  __ _ _ __(VND)
1      .V Dieu                                 Man            Kinh                               Agriculture                  8,000,000
2                      Nguyen Duy Tin          Man            Kinh          Primary              Agriculture                  7,000.000
3   Mau    Lam    Bac Nguyen Dinh Phuc        Man            Kinh           College             Agriculture                 13,000,000
4   Viilage            Nguyen Kiem             Man            Kinh          Primary              Agriculture                 14,000,000
5                      Lu Viet Hung            Man            Kinh       Secondary school        Agriculture                  8,400,000
6                   _    guy&n Van Ly          Man            Kinh       Secondary school     Agriculture, Smith             16,000,000
7   Thach Lam Village  D3O Van Dung            Man            Kinh          Primary          Agriculture, mason               7,800,000
8                      Pham Van Lao            Man            Kinh                               Agriculture                  4 000 000
9                      Nguyen Van Trinh        Man            Kinh          Primary              Agriculture                  2,600,000
10                     Huynh Chin              Man             Kinh      Secondary school        Agriculture                  6,000,000
11                     NguySXn Thi Suang      Woman            Kinh          Primary              Agriculture                 9,000,000
12                     Nguyen Triet            Man             Kinh          Primary             Agriculture                  4,200,000
13                     Nguyen Tai Soa          Man             Kinh        High school           Agriculture                  12,000,000
14                     Huvnh Van Lai           Man             Kinh      Secondan school          Agriculture                 12,600,000
15   Ngoc Son Village  Nguyen Thi Lien        Woman            Kinh          Primary             Agriculture                  7,000,000
16                     Le Hy                   Man             Kinh          Primary             Agriculture                  13,000,000
17                     Hu'nh Van Hoa           Man             Kinh      Secondar school      Agriculture, mason              10,000,000
18                      Le Trong Phuong        Man             Kinh        High school            Agriculture                 27,000,000
19                     Ngyen Thi Kim Thoa     Woman            Kinh        High school      Agriculture, State officer        14,800,000
20                      Nguyen Thi My         Woman            Kinh                               Agriculture                 16,000,000
21                      j     ~Ngue Trong Son  Man             Kinh      Secondary school         Agriculture                 8,   000
22                      Nguyen Phi Hing        Man             Kinh      Secondary school         Agriculture                 4,500,000
23                      Husnh Quynh            Man             Kinh      Secondary school         Agriculture                 7,500,000
24   Ngoe Son Village   Nguyen Van An          Man             Kinh      Secondary school         Agriculture                 9,000,000
25                      Trieu Thi Hong        Woman            Kinh                               Agriculture                 2,700,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                     59



ResettlementAction Plan (RAP)
26                     Neyen Thi Sing       Woman            Kinh|                            Agriculture                10,000,000
27                     Tr'an Duy Phuang       Man            Kinh     Secondary school    Agricuilture, service           5,000,000
FS on Tuy Hoa 220kV substation                                                  60



VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.    )~'I'lJ z1ivi!3 d!td "/5!q 7pju  -             i 
................ s.2,........  >5Z...... .%. ....... .E.X. ...........  cn.f.......... En - ...
:,-;--O-9 ---A  X7n;; --rp---Ue--:r°II 1?x 'Hr3IIJfl} LJfl[ li}   91o.11 L°A ioa +
~~~~~~~......                               .  ...  ......... cj ,r   '-1 3 S O   O   I  I
..;.q.t.................  ............................. ... ... ... .... ... ... ... .... ... ... ... .... ... ... ... .... ... ... ...
.)                                          ..................  .. ..... ;I
Z).......
..... .. .                                            1~1jL 1.-P !PA !OU +
.. .. .. .   .................................................... . . . . . .  .. . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
............................................................... ............................................. ................................ ;y8 ..... ;X ..* s,o,
cL                                               ..) :1 OrL  '7;X6a;F8@ El llOA loa +
1u1.Jlp v)93 o.0J jyq Yi?.m.1if 1/1 19 VfJDX,11D11 DIIf) -
;.E11 tljlIp III) L'A tiq tiap UlJ) iioll 01 a)A S1.o.i1i11c il?U "'Z lQ!3I A Z
.(go ngti) na3 ttluip !j ?itnly t   -
'ill 14a OL[3 nq tiap 1is,es tiutsio uD?  -
-uenb uioil 93  A  TLIhS ltiut( 1tA MU1N1 .!A 1Blnl dytqd qluip inb oiyD  -
Ak VA WIL'N 1.!A u1no i131S qU343 o    uvlq oild  -
.   fulip ot01 lItl'[ tUVi}l ImUI" 1i°mp U3D Ji C'  -
uel3, AlP o0I3 jp  uLl)p Bunil OliA ntfll SiJlunlI  -
1I'1 rl.'j 'lq uap uiyap uunb tival ipius 'q''ja 2u.milru uiaiq O'id '*
:21nop  tI26z) UL'A KuL'J ap IIA JUD'
...... :b7 u   XAl XI0 U-1I) l!Ca  £
,~~~~...                                   "AS58>  J;  l;t  7G)<)r4Wlg  l ....ti 7/.-- GK[lUn 0~ u !plI '1
J                               Lc                              :.np rucll I1i1(Il llrtlull.
113 HNli(G   ML VA (f[f N1    l 113  01VO-1   S1 A A
ONO9MQG D         NVA IAVI-IL NVyfl NMp
§.ooD. UWU  iif22lU /7   a7afJP
-------000 ----I--
am!d titifH - opi ;J - del 13G
NVN|T In1A VIH-:)N fll-ID 161-1 VX VOLI ONOD



.............. ............................. .z9aweB......................... .*.w.§ses@................................. 6w... s^v9 ......... @*.o
- Cc phuzang dn d6n bii, quy trinh c& tr                    9n bz'r
+     Tadgn b     hu,     huc            de n  bu  i..........
...ccJs>  >4  /nr} ....Lb2P.(S>  9  44g........................
+ Qy h~khiu ~a,         gi"rn     t:
................ ...........  ;..............I   . . .. .  .               ............  . .. .  . .. .  .. . .  .. . .
X   + Thai gian      thuc hT  en  chi ta4 dXn buh: ...................................................
* |WesJv.. 4C.s ...|(A, ..c  9  ..m q ....   .. 'h   ...............................................
.. .  . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . .       .  . I   . . . .  . . .  ............................... ................ da
+ Quy che khieu nai, giam              sat: ............................................................
.......................................................................................................
j                Xa~~~c nhan cufa C'ong ty TVXD D)i'n 4                                  Xac nhan cua ngtroi bi inh hw&ng
i  .                                      ~~~~~~~~XfiaapX~Wc_chinh quyen dia phirang/
41-/                             :L     "IA
{It,     ,,.--4^ r.f.               />W,



CONG HOA XA HQI CHU NGHIA VIJtiT NAM
DoQc lip - Ttir (lo - HIanh pli'ic
qS4A/1./~    aengay. 2   thdng    . nLnnz 2004-
BIftN BAN TI-IAM VAN CQNG OONG
VE KE HOACII DEN BU VA TAI DINH CUf
|             ~~~~Thsi.iiii plhai thxam dut:
a ~~~~~~~~1.           D ai  die.n   UBN D   : ............... SR./t;@{................................ .C/u
fl ~~~~~~~~2.          N lifrmg  ngtr&iin   aliu11rillg: ......... a9........................ N ami ..  c,/........ NCrr.......
3. Dai dien Cty TVXD Die4n 4                                           ..........................
C.ic vAn dle tlham   a van CQlig d6JIg:
1. Plio bien iiniing clin i saici Iie^n quaii den (deni bfi, t.ii djnli ctr.
-   Nlfriig klLi vurc trrirg duL.ig dat clio dr ain.
-   DLr kien th&ii gian tien MlAnh clio dt rin.
-   Plio bien cac cliinhl s6clh cua Viet Namn v'a WB.
-   Cac quy dinhl plh6p luIt Viet Nam vi chinil s6clh WB c6 lien quail.
-   Cic cliinhi s6clh den bui clho Dr ain.
-   CUic khu tai diinlh cur (neu c6).
2. Y kiein cuia dia plitiiong ve ke lioacli dein bit vi tai dinli cu:
- Kb1d 'idiig xiij r-a diih hitwrodg bat lo-i ciia di- adi
+ DOi v&i nhii CUa:...a)..:    ..,.. .c t  ...t.                                .
I ~~~~~~~............................       7     .1 ................................... 7.t.Jv.Z.............. . ..........................
I              ~ ~~~~~~......................................................................................................................................
±+ D)i v&i dat dai: ............................                                    .
.....................................................................  ...............................................................
.....................................................................................................................................
+ DAoi v6'i cay ci...a...c..              ..A           7...................................
......................................................................................................................................
+ Doi v6i m6i trtrung tyT niiieii, xai: 
i- Cc bihi phl d'p giadii tlhie"ii:



P1~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       1 iUW
.1!Uo.ild Blp UliaOp b 111111p! ulmLJ +I I aux
i~~~~~~~~~ a
t, ll3!(t 2ll. p Sex  IBO.JLA   +tlO0
21UO.1111 lltl tiu e  !.Q*l   en  UEI[II 31',)C                 tl!il) !E[) ulia IIEIII 3ex
........................................ ....................-.. ... ...  t. ... .. ... ... ... ... ... .!  ,a... ... ... ... ... .-
......................................................................................................................................
.......................................................   :I  ''''''J';d  -'''tp    Sn6  
.................. ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
...................................................... .................  --   -  ---- .- r  ...... tr 
nq lly v.iLz t:nqzI.Z u,Jp  !113 Ito% lpXxoZz/ 
................... ..................................................................................................................
................................... ........................--------------- '  '''q   ...lO ! 1lU'p  l  1, +..
....................................................... . . . . .. . . . , ..   . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .
...................................................................................... ................................................................................................. r
1~ ~       ~        ~       ~~1
.. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .I. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .
1~~~~~~~~rVy,;F                                                   ?I   ,'p     i  ,u.T +



I_ _ _ _ _ _  _  r. B _ S _ - _ -  [
-~~~~~~~~~~~



