RP287
VOL. 6
ELECTRICITY OF VIETNAM
HAI DUONG POWER COMPANY
T&D1 -CREDITNO3034+
110/35/22KV DAI AN SUBSTATION
HAI DIJONG PROVINCE
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
(RAP)
e                     Prepared by.
ELECTRICPOWER CONSULTING AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Ho Clii Minh, City, Decemnber 2005



.'.;'7I! ".:. ''



RAP -I IOkl'Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
ELECTRICITY OF VIETNAM
HAI DUONG POWER COMPANY
T & D1 - CREDIT NO 3034 +
110/35/22KV DAI AN SUBSTATION
HAI DUONG PROVINCE
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
(RAP)
Prepared by.
0 200 uELECTRIC POWER CONSULTING AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER
J Project Manager: Duong Van Minh
DIRECTOR OF ECD
.                                  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
G HUU THAN
Electric Powver Consulting and Development Center (ECD)



RAP - I1OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CHAPTER I: PROJECT INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER II: MEASURES TO MINIMIZE LAND ACQUISITION AND LOSSES
CHAPTER III: RESETTLEMENT POLICY AND ENTITLEMENT
CHAPTER IV: PROJECT IMPACTS
CHAPTER V: INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT
CHAPTER VI: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
CHAPTER VII: PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
CHAPTER VIII: COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCE
CHAPTER IX: MONITORfNG AND SUPERVISION
CHAPTER X: BUDGET AND COST
Annex 1    : Policy framework for Compensation and Resettlement of Project
Annex 2    : Inventory of Project Affected People
Annex 3    : Summary of estimated costs for compensation and other implementation
expenditures
Annex 4    : Socio-economic Household data sheet of Project Affected people
Annex 5    : Temporary land acquisition during construction stage
Annex 6    : Temporary land acquisition in ROW
Annex 7    : Permanent land acquisition.
Annex 8    : Entitlement Matrix
Annex 9    : Entitlement of Housholds
Annex 10   : Map of Project
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                   2



RAP - IlOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
CPC        : Commune People's Committee
CEMMA         Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Area
DMS           Detailed Measurement Survey
DPC           District People's Committee
DRB           District Resettlement Board
EVN           Electricity of Viet Nam
GOV           Government of Viet Nam
HH            Household
IDA           International Development Association
IMA           Independent Monitoring Agency
LURC          Land Use Right Certificate
PC I       : Power Company No. I
HD PC         Hai Duong Power Company
PPC           Provincial People's Committee
PRC (B)       Provincial Resettlement Committee (Board)
HDPC          Hai Duong Power Company
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RIB           Resettlement Information Booklet
ROW           Right-Of-Way
T/L           Transmission Line
WB            World Bank
E
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                                3



RAP - I IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. The project
Electricity of Vietnam (EVN) was assigned by Vietnam Government to manage the whole
power generation, transmission and distribution throughout Vietnam. At persent, EVN is
planning General Development Scheme for period of 2000 - 2010 with consideration to
2020. Estimated power demand growth rate for period of 2000-2020 is 8.8 - 10%/year to
meet the demand of yearly GDP growth rate of 6.5 - 8%. Therefore, in order to catch up
well with the power development, electrical network needs the large investment, especially
the distribution network. It is planned that EVN will supply electricity to 100% districts
from national network or the energy on the spot, to 80% villages and to 90% household by
the year 2010. in order to meet the increasing demand, Vietnam electric needs investing
more than USD 1.5 - 2 billion in the coming year.
Having taken the responsibility in carrying out the above work, particularly during the
period of Vietnam's modernization and industrialization process, The Electricity of Vietnam
made its own dicision to get used of the World Bank financial resource from saving cost of
the Transmission and Distribution Project to invest into thte 110/35/22kVDaiAn Substation
(Credit No.3034 - [1V) in Hai Duong Province.
2. Legal framework and waiver provisions
The RAP for this project under World Bank (WB) follows the legal framework and
entitlement policy of Power Network Expansion and Rehabilitation Project of Hai Duong
that was approved by GOV and cleared by the World Bank for this Project "Transmission,
distribution and disaster reconstruction (credit No.3034 - VN)". According to the policy,
eligibility for compensation and rehabilitation entitlement includes all affected persons,
households and institutions with or without legal title on their assets included in the RAP
inventory prior to the RAP cut-off date.
(see annex I for detail)
3. Impacts of the project
The impacts consists of:
+ Temporary impacts during construction stage including the daimage of trees, crops and
assets around area which used for constructing pole foundations / substations or on the
temporary road served for construction activities;
+ Permanent impacts on trees, crops, houses, assets due to acquisition of land for erecting
poles, constructing substation and access road; permanent impacts on assets in ROW due to
the regulation of Decree No. 54/1999/ND-CP.
There is no impact on natural preserving zones, vestiges, and pagodas or sensitive areas.
The survey results are shown as follows:
- There will be 10 project affected households (32 persons), in which:
o 10 households whose land and trees/crops for permanent acquisition;
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                       4



RAP- -I OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
RAP will also need a well coordinated by local authorities all relevant institutions at the
different levels.
8. Monitoring and evaluation
The implementation of RAP shall be constantly supervised and monitored by HD PC.
Moreover, an independent consulting agency will be entrusted with independent monitoring
task. The independent consulting agency (agencies) selected by HD PC will make a contract
after RAP approval and will begin supervision and monitoring activities from the beginning
of the implementation phase.
9. Schedule
Just after the investment for the project is approved, PAPs in the project affected areas again
will be fully informed of their rights and the policies of this RAP including legal framework,
eligibility provision; entitlement policy; mode and rates of compensation, implementation
schedules and complaint and grievance rights, mechanism. Such information will be
delivered to the PAPs by I-ED PC via meetings and documentation to be distributed to each
PAPs
All RAP activities must be satisfactorily completed before the World Bank will give a no
objection for award of contract for the sub-projects. Any changes to the RAP after WVB
clearance will require review by the WB Office in Hanoi before commencement of
construction.
No.                     Stage                        Start
1    Inventory and census survey RAP preparation  Quarter 4/2004
2    RAP approval                                 Quarter 1/2005
3    Starting of RAP implementation               Quarter 2/2005
4    Payment of compensation, and monitoring for RAP  Quarter 3/2005
10. Cost for RAP
Subordinate costs include cost for preparation, cost for management, for internal
supervision, for independent supervision, and contingencies for inflation, for administration,
etc. Total cost for RAP is  1.895.211.348,00 VND equivalent to 119.571,69 USD
(Rate of exchange: USD 1  VND 15.850,00)
(See annex 3 for detail)
11. Disclosure
The draft RAP will be disclosed at the office of Hai Duong Provincial People's Committee
and at Vietnam Development and Information Center (VDIC) of the World Bank office in
Hanoi.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                       6



RAP - I IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER I
PROJECT INTRODUCTION
1. Objective of the report
The overall objective of the Resettlement Action Plan is to define resettlement and
compensation programs for the project in such away as to limit as much as possible the
number of project affected people (PAPs) and their affected properties and to ensure that all
project affected people (PAP's) will be compensated for their losses at replacement cost and
will be provided with rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain,
their pre-project living standards and income earning capacity.
The RAP preparation has been carried out with consultation and participation of PAPs
in the project affected areas. This RAP has been consulted and agreed upon with the local
authorities and will be valid after GOV's and WB's approval.
2. Scope and objectives of Project
The project under management of the HD PC aims at the following:
+ Improve effectiveness and quality of electricity supplying for living activities;
improve the spiritual and material life of the people living in the project areas.
+ Develop handicraft households
+ Speed up development of industry and services
+ Contribute part to the prosperity and stability of the socio-economic in the
provinces
Scope of project
The 110/35/22kV Dai An substation Project in Hai Duong Province will be constructed
of total 6.7 km of HV transmission line, and 1 substation. In which:
Description                             Total length (km)
11 OkV Transmission Line       Km                    6.7
11 OkV Substation             Unit                   01
The 110/35/22kV Dai An substation is located in the clear land area belonging to Factory
No.18 of Dai An Industrial Zone, Tu Minh village, Cam Giang district, Hai Duong province.
The llOkV transmission lines connecting into the 110/35/22kV Dai An Substation is
selected as follows:
Connecting from 11 OkV Dai An Substation to 1 lOkV Hai Duong - Pho Cao
existing T/L with the length of 6.7km, using conductor of AC-240/32
Starting point    : Pooctic 11 OkV of 1 lOkV Dai An substation
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                       7



RAP -11OkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Dead-end position  : At pole No.28 of 110kV Hai Duong - Pho Cao existing
transmission line
Total length of the 1 10kV T/L connecting to the substation is 6.7 km.
3. Ownership and organization of the project
The 110kV Dai An substation project in Hai Duong province financed by the WB with
balance of loan for "Transmissions, distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project -
Rehabilitation and Expansion of distribution systems of Northern regions - Credit No.3034
- Investor: Hai Duong Power Company (HD PC)
- Organization in charge of the project management: Hai Duong Power Company
(HDPC)
- Provincial Power Services (PPS): Hai Duong PPS will coordinate with HDPC in
implementation of RAP as well as supervision during construction stage.
- Power Service of Hai Duong province will coordinate with the local authorities in
implementation of compensation, site clearance and supervising as well during
construction period.
- Consulting Unit: Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)
4. Proposed impact areas of the project and land acquisition
4.1 Permanently Impacts:
The Degree No. 54/ND-CP of EVN regarding electric equipment regulations 11 TCN- 18-84,
1 lTCN-19-84, 1 1TCN-20-84, 1 lTCN-21-84 stipulated clearly as bellows:
The safety ROW is determined by 2 parallel flats, which has 4m wide calculated from side
phase to the right and left sides of the phase without win. Within ROW rice, crop and fruit
tree could be planted but the safety distance shall be warranted (safety distance is calculated
at least 3m height from top of the tree to nearest T/L).
Houses, schools, health cares agencies and other structures shall not be built in side HV
ROW. Unless other wise the structures in side the HV ROW should be satisfied the
following:
- Using anti-fire material
- Steel structure earthing in accordance with current regulations
- Vertical distance from conductor in static condition to any part of the structure must
be at least 4m.
- Electric and construction safety measurements of houses or structures must be
strengthened in case traversed by T/Ls.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                         8



RAP - IIOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
- Height of trees to be planted must be at least 3m lower than conductor positions in
static condition. Trees over 4m high in 110kV ROW shall be cut out. However it is
encouraged to plant subsidiary crop, which is under 4m high in the ROW. Land
acquisition permanently for construction is including impacted areas surrounding
tower foundation and substation.
4.2 Land temporary acquisition for construction is including:
Surrounding areas of tower foundation that are temporarily damaged by the project during
the construction period due to temporarily access.
Temporarily affected areas during conductor's stringing period are including areas along
ROW 2m wide calculated from ROW center to both two side of the ROW respectively (total
4m wide).
Impact to transportation roads; drain water systems, which were built by provinces during
construction period and equipment transiting period.
A detail of the impacts is described in chapter IV.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                         9



RAP- -IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER II
MEASURES TO MINIMIZE LAND ACQUISITION AND LOSSES
For minimizing impacts, the following actions, measures are conducted:
1. Consultation and Participation
In the period of RAP preparation, Consultants of PCI conducted detailed survey on the
project impacts, the survey teams have also conducted discussion and consultation with
local authorities and local people on possible impacts caused by the project, on project site
selection, alignment of routes so that the selected line route and substation location are the
least impacts option. Feedback from local government and PAPs have been taken into
account for the project design.
The draft RAP has been sent by HD PC to the relevant bodies such as the provincial
people's committee for comments and public display. All comments from local authorities
and PAPs have been recorded and taken into account of final revised RAP.
2. Mitigation measures in design
The mitigation measures for project impacts should be scrutinized during the design
stage, especially for line route selection. A well-selected route and substation site would reduce
much of the project cost as well as impacts on the locals and environment.
The following principles were followed:
- The route selected is as short as possible; the substation is suitably designed for
minimum construction cost and land acquisition.
- The transmission line and substations should avoid concentrated residential and
conservation areas by turnings. Though more turning angles means high cost, the
compensation cost and delay would be less.
- The transmission line should be as closed to the transportation roads as possible to
facilitate material transport during construction and management and operation,
meanwhile reduce land acquisition for access roads.
- The transmission line should avoid areas with high trees such as industrial trees,
planted and natural forests so as not to impact the eco-system. Avoid passing
through sensitive areas.
- The transmission line should not traverse or be closed to important projects such as
airports, mine warehouses, radio stations.
- The transmission line should avoid slope sides to reduce leveling.
-  The transmission line should avoid turnings as much as possible due to high cost of
angle towers.
During selection of line route and substation location, HD PC and its consultants had carefully
studied different alternatives on map and at site and chosen one route for investigation. For
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        10



RAP -I IOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
complicated sections, two alternatives were chosen for investigation for comparison and the
alternatives with least impacts were selected.
There is only one alternative for the 110/35/22kV Dai An substation site to be selected. The
substation with the area of 8.319,5m2 shall be located in the clear land area belonging to
Factory No. 18 of Dai An Industrial Zone, Tu Minh village, Cam Giang district - Hai Duong
province.
The substation position has been considered and approved by Hai Duong Power Department,
Hai Duong Industrial Department, Hai Duong Province People's Committee and Hai Duong
Industrial Zone Joint Stock Company.
O Office Letter No.920/CV-UBND issued by Hai Duong Province People's Committee
dated October 18'h 2004 on approving the transmission line and substation locations.
O Office Letter No.86/CV-DA.2004 and minutes for approving the route of the 1lOkV
TL traversing the land of Dai An Industrial Zone (signed and sealed).
O Office Letter No. 808/UBND- VP issued by Hai Duong Province People's Committee
dated August 12th 2005 on approving the  10kV TL route to supply power for Dai An
substation.
110kV transmission line connecting into the substation
One alternative has be selected as follows
Inter-connecting the Pooctic 1 10kV of 110kV Dai An substation to Dong Nien
(Hai Duong) - Pho Cao Transmission Line
Starting point   : Pooctic 110kV of 110kV Dai An S/s
Dead-end position  at the angle tower No.28 of 11 OkV Hai Duong - Pho Cao
transmission line
Length           :6,7km
Number of circuit  : Four circuits but double circuit in the Istphrase
Conductor size   : ACSR-240/32
Overhead ground wire   : OPGW-70 and TK-50
Total length of the 1 10kV T/L connecting to S/s is 6;7 km.
This alternative has been approved by Power Company No. 1, Hai Duong Province People's
Committee and Hai Duong Power Company.
Project affected houses and Permanent land acquisition for project shall be inventoried as
follows:
Item                             110kV T/L
Total of affected HHs by Project                    10 PAHs
Total of permanent land acquisition for project     5174 m'
(m2)
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      11



RAP - IlOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Total of temporary land acquisition for project        10 400 m2
(m2)
Angles needed                                              4
3. Mitigation Measures In Implementation Stage
In the implementation phase, the following mitigation measures should be considered further:
-  During detailed engineering design stage: PCI will study more carefully about the
investigated route and substation site and make necessary modification to avoid
residential houses.
-  It is necessary to optimize construction of each line sections and substation
components according to available workforce to minimize temporary land
requisition for the project.
-  For annual tree areas, stringing works should be carried out right after harvest to
minimize impact on crops.
It is necessary to carefully investigate and select access roads to minimize their impact. For
sections traveling forest, manual transport of materials should be considered to minimize
impact on the environment.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                           12



RAP- l1 OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER III
RESETTLEMENT POLICY AND ENTITLEMENT
1.    Legal framework
The overall objectives of RAP are guided both by Vietnamese law and W1B policy on
involuntary resettlement (O.D 4.30)
1.1. Vietnamese laws
The Vietnamese laws, decrees and regulations that have let the preparation of this
RAP and warrant its legality are:
- The Land law No. 13/2003/QH1 1 dated December 26th 2003
- Decree No.181/2004/ND-CP dated October 29th 2004 by the Government on
applying the Land Law.
- Decree No. 188/2004/ND-CP dated November 16th 2004 by the Government on the
stipulation of the frame for the price of land types
- Decree No.197/2004/ND-CP dated December 3rd 2004 by the Government on
Compensation, Assistance and Resettlement for the land acquisition by the State.
- The Government Decree No 22/1998/ND-CP of 4/24/1998 on the compensation for
damage when State recover land for National defense, security, national interests and public
interests.
- The Circular 145/1998/TT-BTC, November 4t, 1999 of the Ministry of Finance
- The Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8th, 1999 on the protection of the high
voltage networks.
- The Government Decree No 64/CP of September 27th, 1993 on the distribution
agricultural land to the households in long term for the agricultural purpose.
- Circulation No 05-BXD-DT of February 9th, 1993 on the classification of the house
types.
- The Government Decree No 17/2001/ND-CP of May 4th, 2001 on the stipulation of
procedure of management and using ODA.
- The Decision of Hai Duong Province People's Committee for the unit prices for
compensation of the land, rice, crops and trees.
- The Decision of Hai Duong Province People's Committee on compensation for
acquiring the land to serve Security, Defence and Public Interests.
1.2 Guideline OD 4.30 of World Bank
For compliance with OD 4.30 of the WB, all PAPs included in the inventory list or
can prove their residencies/occupancy prior to the cut-off date are entitled to compensation
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      13



RAP - I IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
for their losses. People eventually settling in the affected areas after the cut-off date will not
be entitled to compensation and rehabilitation.
Also for compliance with OD 4.30, compensation rates will be provided at
replacement cost for houses, buildings, and perennial trees; fruit trees will be compensated
for the remaining harvests and, at the market rates for crops.
In order to carry out the RAP in accordance to WB OD 4.30, a number of articles in
various Vietnamese laws and regulations which do not ensure compensation at replacement
cost or set eligibility provisions which do not extend the right to compensation and
rehabilitation to households without proper land papers, will be waived. The articles of law
and regulations that will be waived are below:
According to the basic guideline principles of WB on the involuntary resettlement
policy, PAPs will be "subsidized to at least rehabilitate their old living-standard, income
ability and production level".
WB doesn't consider that lack of legal land paper is a trouble in compensation and
rehabilitation for PAPs; especially, vulnerable PAPs.
For compliance with OD 4.30 of the WB, all PAPs included in the inventory list are
entitled to compensation according to their losses. People eventually settling in the affected
areas after the cut-off date will not be entitled to compensation.
Also for compliance with WB OD 4.30 compensation rates will be provided at
replacement cost for houses, buildings, and perennial trees; and, at the market rates, for
crops.
1.3. Required waivers
Item 4, Article 2 of Decree 17/2001/ND-CP, stipulates that "in the case of the
international agreements on ODA have been signed between GOV and sponsor stipulates
other contents, then that international agreements should be stipulated ". In order to carry out
the RAP in accordance to WB OD 4.30, a number of articles in various Vietnamese laws and
regulations which do not ensure compensation at replacement cost or set eligibility
provisions which do not extend the right to compensation and rehabilitation to households
without proper land PAPs, will be waived. The articles of law and regulations that will be
waived are below:
(i) Eligibility to compensation - Decree 22/CP
Article 7 of Decree 22/CP (Non eligible persons for compensation of land) stipulates that
"The person whose land is recovered and who has not met one of the conditions stipulated in
Article 6 of this Decree or who has violated the plan already ratified by the competent level,
and such violation has been announced, or who violates the corridor protecting work, or who
illegally occupies land shall not receive compensation when the state recovers the land. The
People's Committee of province or City directly under the Central Government shall
consider and make decision on a case by case basis".
Article 16 of Decree 22/CP (Principle for compensation of lost property), Point 3, stipulates
that "The owner of affected property on recovered land as mentioned in Article 7 of this
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                       14



RAP -I lOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Decree, based on each individual case, the People's Committee of the province or City
directly under the Central Government shall consider and decide the assistance".
To ensure that the objectives of the RAPs are met, a special decision of the Government
waiving Article 7 and Article 16 of Decree 22/CP is needed to permit assistance and
rehabilitation measures for illegal users of land as proposed in the RAPs.
(ii) Price of land for calculation of compensation
According to the Vietnamese regulation, calculation for land compensation will be based on
Decree 188/CP, 22/CP, 17/1998/ND-CP and Decision 302/TTg.
Article 4 of Decree 188/CP states that compensation of land must fall within the
Government's range of minimum and maximum prices.
Article 8 of decree 22/CP states that the prices of land for calculation of compensation for
recovered land shall be determined on the basis of local prices of land issued according to
the provisions of the Government multiplied by a coefficient 'K' in order to ensure
compatibility of the compensation with profitability and the prevailing land prices of the
locality. The price of land for calculation of compensation for the project shall be decided by
the Chairman of the Provincial People's Committee based on the proposal of the Finance-
Pricing Department.
Even though the limit of values of the coefficient K has been widened by Decree
17/1998/ND-CP and Decision 302/TTg, to ensure that the compensation of land is at
replacement cost, a decision regarding a waiver of Decree 17/1998/ND-CP and Decision
302/TTg is required. This is to ensure that the objectives of the RAP are met. Unit prices for
land will be established, ensuring compensations at replacement value.
(iii) Principles for implementation of compensation - Decree 22/CP
Article 18 of Decree 22/CP explains the resolution for compensation of affected houses and
structures with different legal status of the houses and structures.
To ensure that the objectives of the RAPs are met, a special decision of the Government
regarding a waiver of Article 17 and Article 18 of Decree 22/CP is needed to permit
assistance and rehabilitation measures for project affected houses and structures as proposed
in the RAPs.
(iv) Assistance policy for PAPs who rent houses from the government -Decree 22/CP
Article 25 of Decree 22/CP states that PAPs who rent government houses and do not want to
continue to do so shall be entitled to compensation at a rate equal to 60% of the cost of the
rented house and 60% of the cost the land.
To ensure that the objectives of the RAPs are met, a special decision of the Government
regarding waiver of Article 25 of Decree 22/CP is needed to permit assistance and
rehabilitation measures for PAPs who share rented government housing as proposed in the
RAPs.
(v) Required actions and commitments of GOV
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        15



RAP - 11Ok V Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Approved for Power network Expansion and Rehabilitation Project of Vinh and HaLong city
in 1998, The Prime Minister of Vietnam granted the waivers for the above mentioned
Articles 7, 8, 16, 18 & 25 of Decree 22/CP; Article 4 of Decree 87/CP.
2.    Definition of eligibility and limitation to eligibility
- -            Project Affected Persons (PAPs) are all individuals, households, firms or institutions
with or without land registration PAPs who owned, rented, or used land, properties and
businesses, which are affected by the project.
All PAPs will be entitled to full compensation for their respective losses as long as
they are included in the PAPs inventory list or can prove that they used the affected items
before the cut-off date. The same applies to PAPs whose incomes are affected by the project.
The cut-off date has been fixed as the day of inventorv complexion May 30'h 2005 The
cut-off date has been declared by the competent local authorities. The cut off date was
declared by people' committee of Hai Duong Province.
Encroachers who settled into the proposed affected area after the cut-off date will
have no entitlement of compensation and resettlement. They will be required to demolish
their structures and cut the trees or harvest their crops for land clearance to the project. In the
case necessary, they will be forced to be removed out the proposed project area.
Nevertheless, they do not have to pay any fine or sanction. The cut off date was declared by
people' committee of Hai Duong Province and the list of PAP is file at PCI. PAP and
commune have also be informed on this provision (no compensation for encroachers). Local
authorities are responsible for managing the areas to be acquired for the project.
3.    Resettlement and compensation principles
Principles and objectives of this RAP are defined in accordance with Vietnamese laws and
Operational Directive (OD 4.30) of World Bank. Vietnamese legislation and WB directives
have been adapted to fit the specific conditions of the project as defined below:
I. Resettlement and compensation programs must be designed so as to allow the
improvement or at least the maintenance of the PAP's pre-project living standards.
2. Both resettlement and land acquisition must be minimized as much as possible.
3.: Resettlement distance must be minimized if the agricultural replacement land needs to
be given, it should be as close as possible to the land that was lost.
4. Cash compensation for houses/or structures shall be given at the replacement costs free
from depreciation cost of the salvage of the old construction materials, cash
compensation for land and trees shall be given at the replacement costs, while cash
compensation for crops shall be given at the market-price rates.
5. Resettlement transition period must be minimized and the compensation should be
provided to PAPs before construction activities affecting them, no land clearance if the
full compensation have not been done.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        16



RAP - I OkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
6. All PAPs residing/or cultivating land within the project area before the cut-off date are
entitled to have compensation for their losses and to income rehabilitation.
7. Resettlement and land acquisition plans and all the replacement alternatives should be
carried out following consultation with the affected population and it should have
popular acceptant of PAPs. The land area also required to be approved by local
authorities.
8. Resettlement and compensation programs must provide adequate institutional
arrangements to warrant effective and timely implementation and proper monitoring.
9. Financial and technical resources for the resettlement, land compensation and subsidies
should be available when and where required.
10.The previous level of community services and resources should be maintained or
improved in the new sites.
1. Once approved by Hai Duong PC what stipulated in this RAP will be enforceable as an
official legal document.
4.    Eligibility to compensation entitlement
Legitimate PAPs are all the affected households and institutions included in the
inventory with or without legal title included in the RAP inventory or able to demonstrate
with other means that prior to RAP cut-off date they owned, rented or used land, and
properties associated with land.
In addition, legitimate PAPs are also all households and institution who prior
,         occupation and/or businesses and related income are affected by the project due to
acquisition of land or other assets, temporarily or permanently.
5.    Compensation policy
Compensation for crops will be provided at market price. Compensation for land, houses,
buildings, trees and other assets will be provided at the replacement cost.
Compensation for land losses:
- Compensation for productive land losses (less than 25% of total land PAPs'
holdings) will be provided at the replacement cost for the equivalent area and all
other losses will be provided in cash.
- Compensation for productive land losses (equal or more than (=/>) 25% of total
land PAPs' holdings will be provided in terms of land for land at the equivalent
area and quality of land acquired by the project or in cash at replacement cost
according to PAPs' options.
Compensation prices have been defined in this RAP are tariffs established by the provinces
based on the decree 188/CP and the Circular 145 of the Ministry of Finance.
Since the time from RAP preparation to time of the project implementation may be long, at
the implementation time, such prices may not correspond to market or replacement rates.
,       Therefore, all applied prices will be checked again at the beginning time of RAP
implementation and adjusted if necessary. Resettlement Committees at the very beginning of
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                       17



RAP- I IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
project implementation will also carry out the Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS). The
evaluation of unit cost at the implementation time will be done by independent monitoring
agency, Financial Department of provinces. This activity will be required in TOR for
Independent Monitoring later by HID PC.
Compensation for crops will be given in cash at the current market rates calculated on the
productive average of the last three years (according to the Circular 145 of MOF).
Compensation for houses, buildings and trees will be provided in cash at the replacement
costs.
6     Impact Categories and Entitlement Policy
By the nature of the project impacts as described above and based on the survey of
the PAPs, the impacted categories could be classified as below:
6.1 Temporary Impact within Right of Way (ROW): All the PAP has productive land,
crops, trees or structures in ROW of transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower
foundations, in the temporary service roads, which are temporarily affected only during the
construction period.
Category 1 . PAP has trees, crops, which are damaged by the project during the
construction period due to construction of temporary access roads or conductor stringing.
Category 2 . PAP has residential, garden, productive lands which are temporarily
acquired during the project construction period.
6.2 Permanent Impact: All the PAP owned lands and properties on it, which will be
permanently acquired for the tower foundations, the substation areas, the permanent access
roads for construction and maintenance of the project. All PAPs have houses, other
structures, or high trees in ROW, which need to be removed, demolished or cut.
Category 3. PAP has houses/structures, which are partially damaged or cut, and the
damaged portion will not affect to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure
(the dismantled areas are less then 25% of total areas), and the lost house/structure portion
could be rebuilt in adjacent areas already owned by the PAP. Impact on cleared residential
land in ROW would be temporary as it could be reused for restricted purposes.
Category 4. PAP has house, which are partially or totally damaged, and the damaged
portion will affects to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure (the
dismantled areas are more then 25% of total areas or even less than 25% of total area, but
the remaining area can not be used or inconvenient for using), so the house need to be totally
removed and rebuilt in remaining adjacent areas already owned by the PAPs. Impact on
cleared residential areas will be temporary as it can be reused for restricted purposes.
Category 5. PAP has houses, which are partially or totally damaged, and the damaged
portion will affects to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure, so the
house/structure need to be totally removed and rebuilt. However, PAP does not have
sufficient spare residential land for the reconstruction of a house of equal dimensions as the
house lost. The threshold of sufficient residential land is at least 60 m2 for urban areas and
100 m2 for rural areas.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      18



RAP- -I1OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Category 6. PAP has residential land, productive land which will be acquired
permanently for the project, including for permanent roads construction and maintenance of
the project.
a) acquired productive land areas is more than 25% of total productive land PAPs'
holdings.
b) acquired productive land areas is less than 25% of total productive land PAPs'
holdings.
c) The remaining residential-garden land areas is less than 60 m2 (in urban areas)
and 100 m2 (in rural areas).
d) The remaining residential-garden land areas is equal or more than 60 m2 (in urban
areas) and 100 m2 (in rural areas).
Category 7. PAP impacted on business or other services
Temporary impact on business or other services.
Permanent impact on business or other services.
Category 8. impact on public works: compensation at replacement cost.
(Tlhe proposed matrix for entitlement is annex.8)
7.    Subsidy allowances
Besides the direct compensation for the losses, PAPs also entitled to
subsidies/allowances as stipulated in the Decree No.22 of GOV. These allowances are as
below:
7.1   Subsidy for house moving (transport allowance)
This allowance is for PAPs who are totally impacted on houses and have to be moved to new
sites or reorganize to the remaining residential areas i) PAPs which have to move their
houses to new places within the Province will be entitled to an allowance from 1,000,000
VND to 3,000,000 VND; ii) PAPs have to relocate out of their Provinces will be entitled to
transport allowance of 3,000,000 VND to 5,000,000 VND. This subsidy allowance is for the
transportation of their salvageable materials and living facilities.
7.2 Relocation Subsidy for Resettlement
This subsidy allowance is a food allowance for PAPs who are totally impacted on house and
therefore have to reconstruct for their new houses. Each member of PAP will be subsidized
30kg of rice (equivalent) /month in six months 6 months.
7.3 Allowance for PAPs have person getting social subsidy by GOV.
These PAPs if they have to be relocated by the project impact will be subsidized with an
allowance of 1,000,000 VND.
7.4 Timely Movement Incentive
PAPs who relocate on timely manner will get a maximum bonus of 5,000,000 VND/ HH
7.5 Rehabilitation Allowance
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        19



RAP - I OkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
PAPs, who are permanently affected more than 25% of productive land or incomes,
will be entitled from 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 VND/ HH to training or entitle to other
economic rehabilitation programs. The economic rehabilitation programs for PAPs will be
prepared and sent WB to approval by PC1 (HDPC), in accordance with the participation in
project area.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                               20



RAP - IIOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER IV
PROJECT IMPACT
1. Socio-economic surveys
This section aims at providing basis data on the localities traversed by the T/L. These data
are based on survey on PAPs having land in ROW. The survey information is based on
income sources, income, socio-economic situation; impact of resettlement on living standard
and income. A lot of information was obtained. Some households could not point out the
concrete income source and their revenue. However with 20% of PAPs included in the
survey, socio-economic survey on PAPs also aims at identifying characteristics of effected
areas, assessing the development of population, houses, socio-economic, average income,
health care, education... Survey data used for making resettlement policy and bases for
evaluating restoration of living standards later.
Being a province in the main economic region of the North of Vietnam, Hai Duong is
surrounded by six (06) provinces: Bac Ninh, Quang Ninh, Hai phong, Thai Binh, Ha Noi,
Hung Yen. The province also contains the important national roads and railways such as
National Road No.5, Ha Noi - Hai Phong Railway, National Road No.1 8 ... Hai Duong has
the natural area of 1661km2 and the total population of 1 675 566 with the population
growth rate remaining about 1,05 percent (as the statistic of 2001). Hai Duong city is the
capital as well as the centre of politics, economy, culture of Hai Duong province, far 45km
from Hai Phong City in the East and 57km from Ha Noi Capital in the West.
The economic activities in Hai Duong province is mainly argriculture. The main farming
products are rice. corn, potati, sugercane... The main fruit trees are orange, tangerine,
banana, grapefruit... Rice production is 851 200 tons and the rice production per capita
480kg/person. Total exported value is about 89 485 million United State Dollars (USD). The
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita is 5,977 million Vietnam Dong (VND) in 2003.
At the present, Hai Duong province has been carried out the developing strategy for the
industrial zones, planning to construct the seven (07) industrial zones and some handicraft
villages with the estimated area of about 170,82ha. Besides, Tan Truong, Phuc Dien and
Westem Industrial Zones and New Urban Area have been formed along the National Road
No.5. Total FDI projects is forty-two (42) with the total value of 532 million USD (in 2001),
in which twenty-one (21) projects has been put into operation.
Having been in a convenient situation with its available labour force and plentiful natural
resources, it has, therefore, increasely developed and gradually transferred to the mechanism
of industries, trades and services.
The 110/35/22kV Dai An substation and 11 OkV transmission line in Hai Duong province is
to meet the increased power demand of Dai An Industrial Zone (50%), Phue Dien and Tan
Truong Industrial Zones, Cam Giang and Binh Giang districts of Hai Duong province.
Moreover, they ensure the power system operation with the higher reliability, minimize
power losses and enhance the electric power quality.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      21



RAP - 11OkV Dai An Substalion -Hai Duong Province
The survey reports of the project showed that there is some PAHs . However, most of HHs
belong to Category No.1, 2 and 6. All of them are farmers and doing farm for living, 13,5%
of this PAPs are chidren under age of 15, over 80% are manual laborourers with average
income 2.3 million VND/year/HHs.
There are about thirty-two people in each HHs on average. There are 100% children in
secondary school and high school, 0% people have university education and 0% people have
higher education. On accomodation, 100% of HHs have electrified and fountain water, 50%
of that having private toilets, 100% of that having TV sets, motorcycles. Most of houses are
bricked - built, covered with tole.
(See annex 4 for detail)
2. The project impacts
The project impacts include:
- Impact on houses and strLuctures in the ROW
- High trees within the line ROW must be cut off.
- Permanent acquisition of land for the project is used for tower foundations and
substations and roads for construction and project maintenance
- Temporary acquisition of land for:
+ Areas around the fotndation to be affected due to foundation work, tower erection
as well as material transportation to tower locations.
+ Land strips of 2 m wide along the central line for a medium voltage transmission
line and lm for a low voltage transmission line will be acquired for conductor
pulling and tension.
+ Impact on road, drainage due to material transportation to the construction site and
then long term used for the project maintenance.
These PAHs are mainly located within line ROW. The rest may be impacted due to the
substation locations. However, impact level of PAHs differ from each other depending on
the type of the structures.
OH line will be designed to traverse along the town road system causing impact mainly on
rice and crops in agricultural land. Since the impact is insignificant that compensation
would be included in each T/L route portion.
+ Fully impacted: Demolish wholly house
+ Partially impacted : Locating in the ROW these houses should be demolished partially.
However, according to the local custom and habits, demolishment of 30% or the main part
of the house would be considered as fully demolishment. This characteristic will be taken
into account to classify type of household in the future.
There are no impacts on natural preserving zones, vestiges, and pagodas or sensitive areas
or customary assets (fishing areas, such as grazing areas). No impact on the public works.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      22



RAP - 11Ok V Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
The survey results are shown as follows:
- There will be a total of 10 affected households, of which:
o 1 0 households whose land and trees/crops for permanent acquisition;
o  10 households whose land and trees/crops for temporary acquisition;
o No household with partial impact on houses and trees/crops.
- No households will have to be relocated to other places.
- There is no household with more than 25% of their total residential and agricultural
lands affected.
2.1 Temporary land acquisition
Total temporary acquisition land (1+2)                   10 400 m2
1. Temporary acquisition land during construction period:   0 m2
Including:
- Agricultural land                                         0 mn2
- Residential land                                          0 m2
- Commune People Committee land                             0 m2
(see annex 5 for detail)
2. Temporary acquisition land within ROW areas:           10 400 m2
Including
- Agricultural land                                       10 400 m
- Residential land                                            0 m2
- Commune People Committee land                               0 m2
(see annex 6 for detail)
2.2 Permanently land acquisition
Total permanently acquisition land:                      13 494 m2
Including:
- Agricultural land                                      12 977 m2
2
-Residential land                                           517 m
-Commune People Committee land                                0 m2
(see annex 7 for detail)
2.3 Impact on houses and structures
Details of the project impacts is as the following tables:
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        23



RAP - I IOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Item           Total of HHs         Total of PAPs
Category 1                07                   21
Category 2                10                   32
Category 3                 0                   0
Category 4                 0                    0
Category 5                 0                    0
Category 6                10                   32
Category 7                 0                    0
Category 8                 0                    0
Total                10                  32
(There are 10 HHs ivith catatory 1, 2 and 6)
The impacts of farm produce will be counted in the construction stage. Because the crops are short-
terms. There are some impacts of trees according to the Degree No. 54/ND-CP and there is no
impact on graves. Details of the project impacts of trees as follows
Feeders           Wooden trees            Fruit trees
For T/L                0                      0
For substation            0                      0
Total                  0                      0
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                                24



RAP - I]OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER V
. *                    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The following organizations and institutions will be involved in to the preparation and
implementation of the compensation and resettlement plans for the project
- People Committees of Hai Duong province, Districts and communes
- Electricity of Vietnam
- Hai Duong Power Company
- Electric Power Consulting and Development Center
- Province pricing and financial services
- Provincial Land Offices
- Provincial Construction Offices
- Land Office of districts, communes
- Resettlement Boards of districts and Communes
- District and Commune People's Committees
- Project Affected Households
1. Demarcation of responsibility
1.1. Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN) is the project investor responsible for approving the
project documents, providing PMB with fund and guidance on the project control and
implementation as well as RAP preparation and implementation.
1.2 Hai Duon2 Power Company (HDPC) is the project manager responsible for the whole
project including RAP preparation and implementation, assignment for specialized bodies to
prepare and implement the project, submission to PPCs and EVN for approval.
Overall planning, management and monitoring of the regional resettlement programs;
- Ensuring that all eligible PAPs are identified provided with their respective
entitlement according to the resettlement policy and is relocated as per the
implementation schedule and with minimum hardships to PAPs;
- Ensuring that all PAPs are informed about their entitlements, rehabilitated
programs and provided with the Resettlement Information as proof of their
eligibility to resettlement benefits;
- Explaining the scope of the project to Peoples' Committees at various levels;
- Providing copies of the RAP to resettlement boards and explaining the approach
adopted and the categories of entitlement that will be used.
- Organization for training of provincial, district resettlement staff (PRCs, DRCs) on
planning resettlement activities, and on the principles of resettlement;
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      25



RAP - I lOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
- Coordinating with resettlement boards at each level on the implementation of
resettlement activities;
- Carrying out internal monitoring of RAP implementation and appointing a
competent agency for external monitoring of land acquisition and resettlement
activities;
- Reporting on the progress of RAP quarterly activities to EVN and WB.
To carry out the above tasks, HDPC will establish a safeguards team, including staff who is
experienced in environment and social works.
1.3. Hai Duong People Committee (PPC)
Hai Duong People Committee is responsible for
- Review RAP, direct all of its relevant institutions for smoothly implementing
RAP
- Approving compensation cost at the time of compensation that followed the
costs defined in RAP and in the project resettlement policy framework.
- Resolving complaint of PAP at the provincial level.
- Establishing PRCs and instructing their activities.
- Guiding and leading the coordination between sectors, departments in RAP
implementation
1.4. Provincial Relevant Departments
The Provincial Price - Financing Departments are responsible for researching and
issuing unit prices of compensation and then propose to PPCs for approval. At the beginning
of the RAP implementation the Price-Financing Departments will closely co-ordinate with
Construction Departments, Land Offices, Agricultural and Development Departments,
People's Committee of districts and independent monitoring agency in order to evaluate the
applied unit prices in RAP and propose to PPCs for adjustment, if necessary for ensuring that
the compensation unit costs are at the replacement value at the time of compensation
payment.
1.5. Provincial Compensation Committees
Provincial Resettlement Committees are mainly responsible for
- assist developer and compensation committees of districts in preparing detailed
plans for compensation and resettlement.
- Checking all inventories of impacts and detailed implementation plans submitted
by Compensation Committees of districts. Approval for implementation plans by
District Resettlement Committee.
- Solving complaints if the redresser is fail at the district level.
Provincial Compensation Committees will consist the representatives of:
- Price - Financing Department
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      26



RAP- IlOkVDaiAn Substation -Hai Duong Province
- Construction Department
- Land Office
- Chairs of People's Committees of related districts.
- Representative of Provincial Project Management Boards
1.6 People's Committees of districts
Being responsible for guiding compensation and resettlement activities in district areas.
People's Committees of districts are responsible for:
+ Direct the relevant institutions for carrying out impact survey; public consultation,
information dissemination on the resettlement, and implementation of RAP.
+ Establishment of District Compensation Committees
+ Responsible for settles complaints of PAPs at district levels.
1.7. Resettlement Committees of Districts
These are key institutions being mainly responsible for implementing RAP in district areas,
Resettlement Committees of districts consist of experienced officers of the data-gathering
inventory. Resettlement Committees of districts are mainly responsible for:
- Organize the survey team to carry out Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) for
affected houses and assets; finalize DMS and Entitlement forms for each PAP.
- Checking the unit prices of compensation as used in RAP, suggest for adjusting the
unit prices in conformation with market prices/ replacement costs (if required).
-  In co-ordination with PCI and its PMB, organize the meetings with PAPs, communes;
disseminate the RIB, DMS and entitlement forms to PAPs.
- Based on the policy and approved process in RAP prepare the detailed
implementation plan (quarterly, semi-annual, annual plans) and the together with the
local authorities under HD PC pay entitlements to PAPs in a timely manner.
- Settling the complaints and grievances of PAPs, solving any difficulties during the
implementation period, and suggest the solutions for the outstanding issues to
Provincial Resettlement Committees and Developer.
- Closely coordinate with relevant provincial institutions and HD PC, especially for
information campaign and prepare proposal for training for PAPs in the project
affected areas.
Resettlement Committees of districts will be headed by Vice Chairs of districts. The district
Resettlement Committee will be consisted of the following departments/offices:
- Representative of Economic department
- Representative of Land office
- Representative of Industrial department
- Representatives of affected communes
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        27



RAP - I]OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
- Representatives of PAPs
1.8. People's Committees of communes:
People's Committees of communes and village elders will be responsible for:
-    Contribute to census and inventory surveys.
-    In co-ordination with Resettlement Committees of districts for public meetings,
information dissemination, compensation/ allowance payment to PAPs.
-    Transfer all feedback by PAPs to District Compensation Committees and settle the
complaints at the communal level. Suggest the solution for the outstanding issues (if
any).
-    Assisting     local people       in  overcoming        the difficulties during         the construction        period,
assist PAPs in repairing of affected houses. Arrange land for land in the case PAPs
require compensation by land for land.
1.9. Project Affected Persons (PAPs)
PAPs are responsible for carefully checking on their lost assets and respective entitlements
and clear land in a timely manner once PAPs receive full entitlements.
2. Staffing
Staffing and their responsibility are summarized in the table below:
Table 5.1: Staffing for RAP implementation
No      Resettlement            Average              Total            Qualification              Working
institutions            No. of             No. of                                       duration
staff              staff
1      Hai       Duong               2                  2          Expert                     18 months
Power
Company
I..   .............   .....  ..............................  ........ ...........   .....................  ......................... .  ......... . .  ..................   . . ....................... ........ ...............   ...................   .............   .......... . . .   .... . .. .. .
2       Consultant                   2                  2           Expert                    18 months
I........  ...  ..........................................   .....................  . ..................  ...............................................   .......... ............................................... .........  . ................................................
3      PRC                           2                  2          Middle ranking             18 months
Expert                     18 months
........ ...I.....................  ...............  .................................. ............  . .............................................  ........... ............................................... .......  ... ................................................
4      DRC                       1*2dist            2*2dist        Middle ranking             18 months
Expert                     18 months
5      IMA                           4                  2          Middle ranking             18 months
Expert                     18 months
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                                                                          28



RAP -I 1OkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
Table 5.2 - Duties of the resettlement institutions involved in the project.
No                        Activities of RAP                                      Involved Institutions
1      Holding meeting with PAPs to advice of DRB, CPC
RAP activities and information disclosure
.  .......   ...I................................................ ................................................................................ .......................I...................................................................  ..............................
2      Monitoring and identifying PAPs and assets                         DRB, CPC, DPC
..............  ..........................................................................................................................................................................   .............................. .............................................
3      Detail Measurement Surveying, appraising                           DRB, Consultant, CPC
unit price for compensation
4      Notifying to PAPs                                                  DRB
5      Determining Compensation problems                                  PRB
6      Compensation payment                                               HDPC; SCB
7      Intermal monitoring                                                HDPC
8      Independent monitoring                                             Qualified      social institutions        or
experienced                        eligible
consultants selected by HDPC
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                                                                          29



RAP- -IOkVDaiAn Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER VI
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1. Information to PAPs
All PAPs shall be clearly informed on the RAP including eligibility, the entitlement
policy, modes and rate of compensation for each type of impacts, schedule, rights and
procedures for complaint and grievance. Resettlement information booklets (RIB) will be
prepared by HD PC and HDPC and will be disseminated to all PAPs Communities in the
project areas or informed at meetings of provinces, districts, and communes. All key
information also will be made public in places like DCPs and CPC's offices.
Dissemination and public announcement will be carried out right after project
approval by the government and WB. The information on RAP provided to PAPs will be as
below:
1. Impacts and entitlement policy
2. Eligibility to compensation and resettlement.
3. Implementation organization for compensation, resettlement
4. Responsibility of related parties in implementing RAP
5. Grievances and complaint mechanism.
2. Compensation deadlines
Compensation payment for land, houses at least three months before land clearance,
compensation for trees and crops and all allowances will be paid at least 01 month before
land acquisition date.
PAPs are impacted of houses and land received full compensation and subsidies, are
requested to move out of the affected portion of the house or to clear land at least 15 days
before the commencement civil work. However, local authorities and HD PC will make
everv effort to assist them in purchasing residential land and construction for their house
and to be sure that, no land clearance if these PAPs haven 't completed for the houses at new
sites. The cost for cutting trees must be paid to PAPs if HD PC request them to cut their
affected trees.
3. RAP implementation process
RAP implementation will be included in 3 actions as below:
a) General action: Just at once when beginning the project implementation work.
b) Separately action: at several times, once for each component of the project.
c) Continuously  action: Continuously  action  for the  stages of RAP
implementation.
Electric Power Conszlting and Development Center (ECD)                       30



RAP JIl OkVDaiAn Substation -Hai Duong Province
3.1. Action 1:
Just after the award of capital borrows convention of VWB, provinces will establish
Compensation Committees at proposed levels. HD PC hire qualified agency for independent
monitoring RAP.
3.2. Action 2:
HD PC is required to supply Resettlement Committees with fully costs and declare the tasks
for RAP implementation.
3.3. Action 3:
Resettlement Committees of fifteen provinces carry out the Detail Measurement Survey of
affected assets and socio-economic conditions and together with independent monitoring and
other related agencies, carry out the evaluation for the applied unit costs in RAP and propose
to PPCs for readjusting for the applied unit prices in RAP if it is necessary for ensuring that
PAP is compensated at replacement costs at the time of RAP implementation. Article 8 of
decree 22/CP states that "the prices of land for calculation of compensation for recovered
land shall be determined on the basis of local prices of land, issued according to the
provisions of the Government multiplied by a coefficient 'K' in order to ensure
compatibility of the compensation with profitability and the prevailing land prices of the
locality". The price of land for calculation of compensation for land acquired by the project
is decided by the Chairman of the Provincial People's Committee based on the proposal of
the Finance-Pricing Services. The applied 'K' factors for determining unit costs of land in
the phase of RAP preparation are also need to be check and adjusted if necessary.
3.4. Action 4:
Immediately the ends of final inventory survey Resettlement Committees will inspect and
define the official number of PAPs, impacted properties and total compensation amount for
PAPs.
3.5. Action 5:
Resettlement Committees will officially announce the policy, schedule of the RAP to PAPs
at public meetings including issues related to compensation, resettlement and land clearance.
3.6. Action 6:
Compensation payment for houses and deliver assistance to PAPs affected on houses, and
then compensation payment for PAPs affected on other properties.
PAPs are permanently impacted more than 25% of total productive land or incomes will be
entitled to rehabilitation assistance. They will be assisted for the training or TA for
agriculture/husbandry or non-land based program.
The proposals for these programs or TA programs will be prepared by HDPC or its
consultants in the period of RAP implementation. The proposals will be developed based on
the consultation with local authorities and the participation of PAPs in the project affected
areas. The contents of proposal includes of:
a. List of PAP who are entitled to rehabilitation programs
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      31



RAP -I Ok V Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
b. Results of consultation and participation with local authorities, vocational
training centers and PAP
c. List of participant for each course/ or other programs
d. Organizational arrangement
e. Cost for programs.
The proposal also includes the possibility of employment after training. The proposal will be
furnished to IDA for its concurrence.
3.7. Action 7:
During the project implementation, HDPC and Independent Monitoring Institution will
supervise/ monitor all actions of RAP implementation and rehabilitation programs.
4. Implementation Schedule
One of RAP stipulations is that RAP shall be carried in accordance with the proposed
procedure to ensure clearance for project construction.
The implementation schedule must ensure that the compensation schedule and construction
schedule are matched. The compensation payment shall be done prior to the start of the
relevant project components.
Project implementation is scheduled as follow:
No.                     Stage                          Start
1    Inventory and census survey RAP preparation  Quarter 3/2004 -
Complete RAP preparation                     Quarter 2/2005
2     RAP approval                                 Quarter 2/2005
3     Starting of RAP implementation               Quarter 3/2005
4     Payment of compensation, and monitoring for RAP  Quarter 4/2005
All RAP activities must be satisfactorily completed before the World Bank will give a no
objection for award of contract for the sub-projects. Any changes to the RAP after WB
clearance will require review by the WB Office in Hanoi before commencement of
construction.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        32



RAP -I lOkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER VII
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
1. Objectives of information campaign and consultation program
Information dissemination to, consultation with and participation of the affected
people and involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts, (ii) minimize the risk of
project delays, and (iii) enable the project to design the resettlement and rehabilitation
program as a comprehensive development program to fit the needs and priorities of the
affected people, thereby maximizing the economic and social benefits of the project
investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and PAP Consultation Program
are as follows:
- To share fully infonrmation about the proposed project, its components and its
activities with the affected people.
- To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the effected people as well
as information about PAPs' reactions/feedback to proposed policies and activities.
- To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and communities
required to be undertaken for resettlement planning and implementation.
- To ensure transparency in all activities related to land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation.
2. Consultation and participation, information campaign
There are two phases of the public information campaign and PAP consultation:
Phase I: During RAP planning and preparation activities (already carried out)
Phase I - Activity 1: Information & discussion with local authorities on the line routes,
mitigation measures for adverse impacts
This phase consisted of line route selection, census and inventory of affected people,
affected assets, and identification of strategies for mitigation measures, compensating,
rehabilitating and relocating, participation of PAP for RAP.
Phase I - Activity 2: Impact survey and statistics
Based on the agreed line routes, survey teams had realized the routes at sites
coordinated with the commune officials to make a list of PAP affected on land, houses and
crops. The socio-economic survey forms were delivered 25% to affected households.
Inventory forms delivered to all PAPs.
Phase I - Activity 3:Meetings with local authorities and PAP:
Survey teams had requested local authorities and PAPs for their comments on the route
alignments, potential of adverse impact, their reference on unit cost for house construction
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      33



RAP - I OkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
and unit cost of land. In the impact survey time, surveyors held meetings and directly
dialogued with each HH on the options for modes of compensation, potentials of adverse
impacts and propose for the mitigation measures. All of their feedback were noted and
integrated in RAP and EPDB. Consultants of PC I had also prepared for socio-economic and
census survey forms, some key questions on PAP's option for compensation are raised in
these forms. Commune local authorities had also been consulted for land availability in the
case public land would be used for land compensation. PC1 held meetings with Hai Duong
Province all Districts and communes in Quarter 1/2005. In meetings PCI request PAP and
representatives of local authorities to discuss and comment on the project alternatives,
mitigation measures, draft policy of RAP. The Representatives of Women Union, Farmers
Association, DOSTE, PAP, and local authorities attended the meetings. The main feedback
from them were:
i)    Agreed with the draft RAP and mitigation measures
ii)   PAP suggested that, the transparency in implementing RAP are important and
their representative should be invited for supervision of RAP implementation.
iii)  They must be fully compensated before land clearance
iv)   They have to be compensated for the damage cause by contractors
v)    They prefer meetings in the implementation phase, so that they can direct ask and
get answer from competent agencies.
vi)   PAP also requested that, the sign boards for warning at the dangerous sites should
be put, and
vii)  Safety in construction.
All feedback from local authorities and PAPs are integrated in RAP and its annex (IPDP)
and EMP.
Some sample of minutes of meetings and photos of meetings are attached with this RAP
(see annexes 4 and 5)
Phase I - Activity 4: information dissemination and disclosure after Draft RAP prepared.
Draft RAP have been sent project PPC in early 2004 for review and comments. EVN and
PC1 has requested PPCs and other local authorities to carefully review for the requirements
on wavers, eligibility to compensation, proposed entitlement policy, RAP cost, taskforces,
mechanism for complaint and applied unit costs in draft RAP. PPC are reviewing and their
confirmation for agreement on RAP will be sent to EVN within Quarter 4/2005.
The draft RAP has been disclosed at the office of PPC. Final RAP will be sent again to
project province (Hai Duong PC) and disclosed at VDIC of the World Bank office in Viet
Nam.
Phase II: Information campaign & consultation during resettlement implementation
during RAP implementation
Phase II - Activity 1 : Establishment of RCs, Information dissemination and training for
RCs:
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      34



RAP - IIOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
After the signing of the loan agreement, the first resettlement activity is to establish PRCs
and DRCs by relative PPCs. Then HD PC will provide local RCs at all levels the final RAP,
training their staff on RAP contents and steps of RAP implementation. Disseminating RIB
to all PAPs in the project affected areas
Phase II - Activity 2: Distribution DMS and entitlement forms to PAPs:
HDPC and local RCs will carry out DMS and calculate entitlements and disseminate DMS
and entitlement forms to all PAPs. The list of PAPs, their affected assets and entitlements
will be posted at commune office.
After distribute RIB and compensation, entitlement forms to PAPs, DRCs and all commune
local authorities will organize meetings in each commune to clearly inform/explain the
policy of RAP to PAPs. In these meetings, PAPs can raise their questions on any
resettlement issues.
Phase II - Activity 3: Meeting with PAPs on compensation payment and proposals for
trainings, rehabilitation programs.
After getting statistics on lost assets by the project, RCs and communes will organize
meetings with PAPs to introduce the compensation rates for different impac.ted assets. Table
of compensation rates will be posted in the offices of commune people's committees.
At the meeting, PAPs can comment on the proposed compensation rates. Disagreement on
compensation rates will be noted down and collected for consideration. Recommendations,
if any, will be sent to PAPs for revision, if necessary.
Besides, PAPs will be informed of times, locations and process of compensation payment
for the lost assets.
PAPs who agree with compensation price for their assets will sign on the compensation
form. Disagreement comments will be recorded and reported to the competent authorities.
Phase II - Activity 4: Information to local authorities on implementation schedule
PC 1 will inform commune authorities and PAPs about construction schedule and
procedures as well as schedule of RAP
Commune local authorities and district RCs must closely coordinate together for ensuring
that all PAPs in the project affected areas are fully informed 'about compensation and
project/ RAP implementation schedules.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        35



RAP - 11OkI'Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER VIII
COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCE
Since the entire resettlement and rehabilitation program is being carried out with the
participation of the PAPs and the impacted scale of this project will be relatively small, it is
expected that no grievance issue will raise. However, to ensure that the PAPs have avenues
for redressing their grievances related to any aspect of compensation and resettlement,
detailed procedures of redresses of grievances have been established for the project. The
objective is to respond to the complaints of the PAPs speedily and in a transparent manner.
The mechanism is designed to be easy, transparent and fair. By resolving grievances at the
project level, the progress of the project would be more effective ascertained.
The procedures are as follows:
Stage 1:
If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation program,
he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance with Commune authorities or the DRBs.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the commune and
processed. Commune People's Committee or the DRB will resolve the issue within 15 days
Stage 2:
If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she can bring the
complaint to the attention of the within 15 days from the date of the receipt of the decision in
stage 1. PRB will reach a decision on the complaint within 15 days
Stage 3:
If the PAP is still dissatisfied with the decision, he/she can appeal to the District People's
Court (DPC) in accordance with the "Civil Procedure Act" within 15 days of receiving the
decision of the PRB without being charged. DPC decision will be a legal basis for
compensation.
PAPs can make an appeal on any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation program,
including compensation rates being offered.
Detailed procedures for redress of grievances and appeal process shown publicized among
the PAPs during participation meetings and also in the offices of RBs.
This information is also incorporated into the RIB to be disseminated to the PAPs before the
beginning of implementation.
This information is also incorporated into the RIB to be disseminated to the PAPs before the
beginning of implementation.
To redress complaints, the above mentioned authorities/agencies should closely coordinate
with HD PC.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      36



RAP - 1 1OkVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER IX
MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
The implementation of RAP shall be constantly supervised and monitored by HD PC in co-
ordination with local Peoples' Committees.
An independent consulting agency will be entrusted with external monitoring tasks. The
selection of this agency will be submitted to the approval of HD PC and WB.
The chosen external monitoring institution shall be contracted by the HD PC immediately
after RAP approval and shall begin supervision and monitoring activities form the
beginning of the implementation phase.
1.   Internal Monitoring
Internal supervision and monitoring include the following activities:
a) Monitoring the population and socio-economic surveys of PAP and the inventory
of PAP assets, status, occupation and living conditions and supervising the
implementation of compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation for the PAP in
the terms agreed by the PAPs.
b) Monitoring whether the implementation of resettlement and compensation tasks
are carried out as provided in this RAP.
c) Monitoring the availability and quality of replacement land
d) Monitoring the timely and sufficient deployment of resettlement and
compensation funds for this RAP.
e) Investigate and fairly assess each case of complaint and grievance.
f) Internal monitoring agencies will prepare a quarterly report detailing the progress
of RAP implementation. Such a report should be made available to appropriate
GOV authorities, WB and external monitoring agencies.
2. External Monitoring
Beside evaluation the quarterly reports produced by internal monitors and conduct the same
thing of investigation assigned to internal monitoring, the external monitoring agency will
be responsible for the following:
a) At the beginning of RAP implementation, review unit costs of compensation
applied in RAP, check at the site for ensuring that, the compensation costs are at
replacement value or otherwise, recommend to HDPC and PPCs for adjusting.
a) Evaluation of inventory survey (DMS) and Entitlements to PAPs
b) Evaluation of socio-economic project impact on the PAP
c) Supervision of the implementation of RAP to achieve the objectives of the RAP
in particular "to improve or at least maintain the incomes and living conditions of
the PAP after the resettlement".
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                     37



RAP - 10k kVDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
d) Putting forward the amendments for the implementation of RAP so as to achieve
the objectives of this RAP.
e) Offering suggestions on how improve RAP programs
f) Closely monitoring compensation activities and be prepared to give informed
evaluation of Complaint and grievances cases.
g) Write working reports to be submitted to HD PC and W1B every 6 months to the
appropriate GOV authorities, the WB and to the representatives of the PAPs.
h) Produce a final document to be prepared six months after the completion of the
entire resettlement program. This document shall provide detailed evaluation of
the RAP and its implementation, shall document both by means of interviews
with the PAP the situation and the opinions of these latter after they have been
resettled and compensated.
Finally, on the bases of the RAP implementation experience this document shall provide
suggestions both to help reinforce local RAP expertise and to improve for future
resettlements plan.
Terms of Reference (TOR) for independent monitoring will be prepare by HD PC, TOR
will clearly figure out the task for RAP and be sent to VWB for its concurrence prior to
invitation of independent monitoring.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                      38



P?P - 11k OkDai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
CHAPTER X
BUDGET AND COST
1. Sources of fund:
All costs for compensation will be from the counterpart funds of Vietnam and the Owner
shall have responsibility for payment.
2. Compensation cost estimate:
Compensation cost estimate for temporary and permanently impacted house,
structure, agricultural land, forestry land, cultivated land, trees and crops based on:
- Decree No. 87/CP dated 17 August 1995.
- Decision for unit costs of compensation of all project PPCs. Based on the replacement
costs and market price, the unit prices vary from province to province.
- Survey for replacement costs and market price for structures, land, and trees by ECD
in the period of carrying out impact survey.
3. Compensation unit price estimate for the project:
For ensuring that, applied unit costs for compensation at replacement cost, during the impact
survey, consultants of HD PC had carried out the survey on unit prices in each province and
then compare with unit costs issued by provinces. Construction prices given by some
contractors for recently structures is closed to construction price applied in RAP. Applied
unit prices in this RAP are according to the unit price of provinces.
3.1 Compensation unit price for land
Provinces established separately land price unit conforming to the regular price frame of the
decree No.188/CP and circular 145 of MOF by using 'K' factor as described in Chapter 3 (K
factor is used for the adjustment of unit cost to meet replacement value at the time of
issuance of unit cost). These unit prices are based on the replacement costs for land, house,
trees and market prices for crops. However, the compensation unit costs will be reviewed by
local authorities and Independent Monitoring agency at the 'beginning time of RAP
implementation and the adjustment will be done by PPCs (if required and to be used for
calculation the entitlements of PAP) for ensuring that PAP will be compensated at on the
replacement costs for land, house, trees and market prices for crops according to this RAP
policy.
3.2 Compensation for trees and crops
According to circular 145 of MOF, compensation for fruit trees is determined based on the
remaining harvests, perennial trees to be compensated at the replacement cost and annual
crops to be compensated at the average yields of three latest years.
On the reference of local price unit, surveyed market price and price proposed by PAP.
Comparison shows that unit prices are not much altered.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                        39



RAP - IIOkV Dai An Substation -Hai Duong Province
4. Flow of fund
Fund for land acquisition and resettlement will be from the counterpart budgets. PCI will
transfer money to PRBs and then money will be transferred to the following agencies:
- DRCs: compensation for PAP, payment for ground clearance in their areas.
- DRBs receive money from     PRCs and will be responsible for: (a) payment of
compensation directly to affected persons for lost of land, crops, trees and structures,
allowance (b) payment of compensation for permanent land acquisition.
- Payment for district RBs to cover costs of resettlement activities
5. Inflation adjustment
The cost estimates are based on issued in 2001. The rates of compensation and cash
entitlements for rehabilitation and allowances payable to the affected persons will be
adjusted at the time of RAP implementation based on the actual annual inflation rate upon
request of RBs.
6. Implementation, administration and contingencies costs
Preparation costs include costs already made for land demarcation, spotting and DMS. They
include also the costs of training for various resettlement boards (PRC, DRC); payment
(salaries, cost for going business trips) for resettlement boards; payment to conduct
necessary surveys; and payment to conduct monitoring.
7. Prices used for cost estimation of land acquisition and resettlement.
Compensation for land shall be at replacement cost and for crops shall be at market price.
Unit prices may not correspond to the market price or replacement cost at the
implementation time and shall be readjusted suitably. All unit prices shall be reviewed and,
if necessary, adjusted again at DMS time.
Electric Power Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                          40



Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettiemnent and Rehabilitation           March 2002
POLICY FRANIEWOR-K FOR COM:VPENS.ATIO-N, RESETTLEMIENT ANND
REHABILITATION OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
(draft)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 1:   Introduction
A.    The Proiect
B     Policv Framevwork
C.    Project A.-ffecred Peopie
D     Principles and Ob1e.;i Ces
lnven ories
F .   PReserriemetr.en Ac.:ion ?:a.ns
Section 2:   Institutional and Leuai Framew^-ork
A.    Insiti.uiional Frame\\or!
B.    Leaal Framevor:L
Section 3:   Entitlement Policy
Section 4:   People's Participation
Section 5:   Baseline Information
A. .  Inventories
B.    Reser.lement A^ c.ion Plans
Section 6:   Itnplementation Arranoements
A.    Implementation Schedules
B.    Compiaints and Grievances
C.    Sunervision. Monitorinc an!d Evaluation
Section 7:   Costs and Budget



policy Framework for Compensation, P.:seJlemrnt ard Kab;ii;a:r               ,arcrl _uu'
SECTION 1
INTRODUCTION
A.    The Project
I. Ln Vietnam. it is estimated tha; over I00 rcmiote mountainous conmmunes or villa2es.
representing about 500.000 households and 3 million people have b'een identified as outside of
the plans for cornectiorn to the ncTr rw  0 Tjh I\Iini,t            I of Idusu-. (MOT) is Coorminating a
ten-year prozrarn to accelerate renew%able electriciry for rural electrification and off-grid supply
in Vietnamn. the Renewable Enerc' Actionr Plan (REAP- . The World Bank and MOI have
acrreed to implement severa! oftLhe ac-Livities of the fi,s t phase of the REAP as a part of the World
BanJc! GEF Systernr Efficiency Improvement. Equitization and Renewables (SEIER) Project
One of the proposed components of th.e SEIER is a Pilot Coim=unirv Isolated Grids Based on
Hvdro.     recent pre-feasibiliv estimnated that smiall isolated hvdro-based mini-rids could
supply 300.000 households with electrici.t\ However. !}1 the year 200'. about twenr\ communes
in 3-5 provinces that cannot be connected to thie national glrid and ha\e potential productive
loads.f would receive assistance to build and operate hvdro/hvbrid mini-7rids to provide vear
round power to the communityv. serving about 1 0.000 households.
2.  The results of census and inventory surveys showv that there are two subproject
components which would require some land acquisition: (i) upgradina C500 kV and 220 1kV
transmission systems: (ii) upgrading 1 10 1kV sub-trans-mission netwvorks suppivinc rural areas:
and no land acquisition by the subcomponent of rehabilitation of existing smnall hvydrco plants.
For the ownership and implementation arrangements. seven separate RAPs have been
prepared for Po\w'er Company I (PCI): Powver Companv 2 (PC): Donc '\ai PowN-er (D IP')
Power Company S (PC-,). Central Powxer Management Board (CP,MB i Nor Whern Power
Management Board (NPMB). and Soththern Power Mlanagement Board (SPIMB.
3. The subcomponent of comi.munity baseTV   i c   renewable energy .ds has no- been
designed at this time yet and therefore land acquisition for this subcomuon ent (if anv\ can not
be anticioated. If land acauisition is reaCuired fo,r this suibcomr.Tonent. P\-- "P i be ure'p2!_ :b!
MOI. EVIN, and cleared by Pro*ect Team.
All RAPs of this Proieci are based lon this Rese:tlement Policy Framework, This policv also
will be applied for the subproiect components ro be constructed in Phu Quoc Islad.a IKien
Giangr province.
B.    Policy Framewvorlk
T. The principle objective of the Policy Frametwork is to ensure that all project affected pe.sons
(PAP's) will be compensated for iheir losscs at replacemenL cost; and Dpovided with
rehabilitation measures to assist themn to improve. or at ieast mnaintain, their pre-Droject livino
standards and income eamino capacity.
5. The Policy Frarnework lays down the princilies and objectives, elicibilirv criteria of PAP's.
entitlements. legal and institutional ramnework, modes of compensation and rehabilitation,
peoples particiDation features and grievances pioced'ures that will guide the compensanon.
resertlement and rehabilitation of the PAP's.
C.    Project Affected People (PA.P's)
2



policy rraacmwor?. iur u_omptlsation, Ieseni,-t,ent ana kehawliizauIoh           March 'tZO2
6. Thle PAP's include the following persons to be identified by the baseline information
collected for each cf the Inventories and Resettlenent Action Plans (RAP's) as specified inl
Section 5 of this Policy Framework:
(a)    persons wvhose houses are in part, or in tolo affected (iempoYarilv or pernanently)
by the Project'.
(b'    persons whose pre'mise- and/ior acricultural land is in  rt or in to  affected
(oerrnanenzlv or ten.0orarilv) bv -,he Prolecc:
(c)    persons %vhose businesses aTe affected in nara or in toto (ernp(orarinx   or
perm,anentiv) by the Project: arnd
(d)   persons whose crops (ann-al aind perennial) and trees ar auffecled in par or in
toto bv he Projecl.
D.     1'rinciples and Objectiv es
The principles ou:iined in the 'World Bank's Operational Directives 4.30 have been adop;ed in
pren.arinE this Policy Framework. In this regard the foilowing principles and objectives would
be app]ied:
(a)   Acquisition of land and other assets. and rese-tlement o: peonie .;ill b e miniimized
as m.uch as possible.
(b)   All PP's residing. wo7Kinl_. do  g business or cuitivatuin :an  in riiht on wa
*  (ROW) of- transmnsston line (TL'). surroundine areas of lower foundation. the
substation areas. in .ne service roacs under tne Project as of the date of the baselirne
suryevs are eniitled to be Drovided with rehabilitation masures suficitent to assist
them to improve or at least maintainl their ore-Pi-oec livino s;-andards. nco
ea . ing capaciry and production levels. Lack of leoai ri-hts to the assets los: v. ill
not bar the PAP frorn entilemen. o such reIaDi:atton measu-es
(c)   The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) comnpensation at replaceent
cost without deduction for . er-eciation or sal\a=e maLerials for houses andi other
Structures: (ii) acricultural land for land of equal productive capac itv acceptablc to
the PAP: (iii) replacement of ireise land of ecual size accep.able to the PAP: i;
anc t-a;nsfer and subsislence allowrances.
id)   Repiacement preminise and ariculmral land will be as -tiarbv as possibl to t`e ]an.'
that \as lost. and accetLabie to the PAP.
(e)   The resettlement transition oeriod will be minimized and the relhabilitation m.ears
will be proovided to the P.AP's no later than one month prior to the expected start-up
date of work-s in the respective Project site.
(f)   Plans for acculsition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation
measures will be carried out in conLsultation wiith the PAP's. to ensure minimal
distrbance. Entitlements wili be provided by PAP's no later than one month prior
to expected start-up of works at the respective project site.
3



()   The previous level of conmurnin   services and resources will be maintained or
improved.
(h)   Financial and physical resources for resettlement and relhabilitation will be made
available and as when required.
(i)   Insiltutional anranoements will ensure etfectilve and tiriel\ desicn. pla.min2.
consultation and imnDIementation o. the Invtories and RAP's.
(i !  Erffective and timelv suDervision. monitormniL and e\ aluation o- the imlen-te,,Latio,n
o ;Tne l nventories a_n `   will be cairieJ out.
E.    Short Resettlement A.ction Plan
S.  in cast iess tihan 1 'C) people are at,^ected by each sub-oroieci comronent. a Short
Resettlerment Action Plan will be prtepar-ed b\ the resp-neTie Project cLianagetreni Board (P\IB')
and consolidatLed bv E\N'. Moi fo- an. ciern Project .~rnnual Work Procram.  dfu-risned an
the W\Vorld Bank for its concurrence.
9. Each Short Resettlement Action Plan w,il] be included: () a census survey of displaced
persons and valua-Lion of asses: (2,) deschption of compensation and other resettlement
assistance to be provide_: (3) consultation wxith displaced people about acceptable altemanives:
(4) instirutional responsibi]inV for imnlemernation and procedures for grievances redress:
arranneents -or mon;torInc aarn i;n lementation anLd (i a timetable and bude t.
10. The Shori Rese-tlement Acion Plan will be conmnlcted no later than tour montlhs rior to
*       -      the estimated date for commencemen; of the works under Lte project. nach Short ResettilLment
Action Plan will be furmished to the WXorld Banlk for consideration no later than tlree montins
prior to the actual initiation o^f the w,vorks under the Project. Compensation. resenlement and
rehabilitation activi-ties wvill on-> comme;nce after the '\Wo-ld Bank has found accenta' e :
respecti\'e Short Resettlement Action Plan and the Mlin'strv of -m0dustry (N 1) has appiroved i.
The com-ioensation. resen.ement an` rehabillitaton activi ies will be completed before awaidnlnu
the contracts of civil works under each sub-proJect.
F.    Full Resettlement Action Plans
I1   In case more than 150 -eoole are affected by each sub-nroiect comnonenl. a fuall
Reseitlement .Action Plan will be prepared by the resuective Proiect N'lanazrnerme  Boa-d (PMB)
in accordance with ihe provisions o; this Policv FrameorK. li e PAp will be fur.nishled b,
PMB under MIQI to the \World Bank i-or its concurrenIce.1
12. Each full PAP will include: (1) desccption of the project: (2) project potential impacts; (3)
oDlective. (4) socio-economic srudies: (5) lezal framevwork; (6) institutional framework; (7)
eligibility (8) v aluation anid compensation for losses; (9) resettlement measures; (10) site
selection, site preparation and relocation; (11) housing infrastructure, and social services: (12)
environmental protection and management; (1IS) participation and consultation; (14) integration
with host populations: (15) mrievances procedures: (16) organizational responsibilities: (17)
implementation schedule: (IS) cost and budget; and. (19) monritorina and evaluation.
1i3. Each RAP will be completed no later than four montlhs prior to the estimated date for
commencement of the works. Each RAP will be fumished to the N\Vorld Bank, for consideration
no later than three months prior to the actual iniilation of the wvorkls under the Project.
4



Compensation, resettlement ard rehabilitation activities will only commence after the \World
Banrk has found acceptable the respective RAP and the M01 has approved it. The compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation activities will be conmpleted before awarding contracts of civii
works under each sub-project.
A
SECTION 2            7
INSTITUTIONAL A_ND LEGAL FRAP        t;NfWORK
A.    Institutional Framework
14. The responsibilitr for preranrng and implementing the Policy Framewvork and RAP's are as
(a) Tne overall responsibilit-y for enforcement of the Polic\ Framework and for pl2anr.n
and implementing RAPs rests With PN4B of lthe MIOI and EV-N. PMB is responsibie
for preparing lnventonres and RAP's and for the day-to-day implenmentation thereof
within their respective jurisdiction. The peoples comimittees at the corn-mune leve!
will ensure the active and effective particioation of the PAP's in the preparation arz
implementation of RAP's. In order to have RAPs acceptable to the World Bank to
implement RAP smootrly. M01 and EvN1 are responsible for 1) hiinn qualified
consultants to prepare RAPs: iia appointing qualified social safeguard staff at each
PM4B.
(b) Funds for implementin2 PAP's xill be from counter-ara funds based on budieean
requirements established bv local  overments (district and commune peoples
comrmitnees) In consulLatioon with the PAP's.
B.    Legal Framewvork
15. The legal framewvork o-m .n ic-he implemcntat'ion of this Poiicy Franlewo\k and .h^
Inventories and RAP's are OD  .' on involuntary Resenlement of the WNorld Bark aid-.
'Vietnamese lawvs:
The Vietnamese laws. decrees and reculations that have let the preparalion oQ this RA^P
and warrant its legalitv are
- The 1993 Land law of  "'199'
- The Government Dec.re No    -Q'I99S/N-D-CP of 4'2 4"1 998 0o the com.ensalion for
damage \vhen State recover land for National defense. securit,. national interests and Du-lic
interests.
- The Circular 145/l99S.'TT-BTC. Novenber 4t. 1999 of the Ministrn of Finance
- The Government Decree _4/1999/ND-Cp. .lul\ syh. 1999 on tile prolection of the high
voltaoe networks.
- The Government Decree No 64/CP of September 27th' 1993 on the distribuLion
agricultural land to the households irnlong term for the agricultural purpose.
..                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



- The Goverrum-ent Decree No S7/ CP of August 17h. 1994 on the stipulation of the
frame for the price of land types.
- Circulation No 05-BXD-DT of February 9h, 1993 on the classification of the
house types.
The Government Decree No i7/2001/ND-CP of May 4th. 2001 on the stipulation of
procedure of management and using ODA.
16. Article 27 of the Land Law provides that: "In case or utmost necessity. when the State
recovers land being used by a land user. for national defense. security. national benefit, or
public benefit purposes, the land use. shall be given compensation for the damagess
17. Decree No. S7-CP provides for minimum and maximum prices for compensation of
different categories of land. These prices have oeen established for purposes of leasing
oovernment land, acoulsition of land by government. for tax value for transfer of land use
rights and for national and public purposes. The prices established in this Decree are set
administratively and mav not be adecuate for compensating the value of the land lost in
accordance wvith the principles and objectives of this Framework (full replacement cost).
There is therefore need for the GOV to issue an special decision providing for the waiver of
the provisions of Decree S7/CP and allowing payment of compensation at replacement cos,
wiihout deduction for depreciation or salvage materials.
IS. Decree No. 22-CP. uhich 2as passed in April 24. 1998 has significant improvemients over
earlier decrees. These impnrovements are as follows: it provides for a wxder coverage and
;ncreased amounts for t2ansition and movxing expenses in relocation: provides for land and cashn
options for compensation. in-roduces entitlement for land at above adi-ministrative rates in the
statement "compensation suitable to -he profi-t-making capabiiin\ . and elihibilirx for
entitlement expanded from legal land users to include: ij "Iecalizable land users: and ii) those
using public right of way can be considered "case b%, case." However the Decree provides that
those without lega! rig-his to the land and houses will not be entitled to compensalion. This IS
contrai-v to the W'orld Ban_k's policv OD 4.30 The Decree also provides for comnensaTIon 10 be
paid at less than replacement cos; without denreciation (Articles 7 and Sl. Thiere S iherefore
need for the GO'\ to issue an special decision providing for the wai\er of the provisions of
Articles 7 and S of Decr-ee 22GCP.
0 . .A.ticle 29 of Th e Government. Decr-e -No 17/.'/001.N\D-CP o- Mvay  -. 2001 on to.e
stipulation of' procedure of management and using ODA states that compensation. land
clearance. resetLlemen- for the ODA  programs to be impiemented accorcing to the laws of
Goverinent. In the case of international Ag,reement sin<ned by  State of \ Niet Namn or GO 
w-hich policy on land clearance, resettlement differ from Vie.t Narn policv, the policy set forth iln
the Azreement will be follo-wed.
20.  Therefore. in approving tn-ls Framework (before the negotiation of the proje;t. the
Governent grants the above-mentioned required wvaivers and authorizes M\C1I. EVN' and all of
the project provinces to provide: (a) compensation at replacement cost xvithout deduction for
depreciation and salvage materials. for land. houses and other assets taken by the project; and
(b) to provide compersation and resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation all affected
persons regardless of without title to the assets lost.
1.   In submitting RAP to the WX orld Baiik for clearance. letters of Chairs of Project
Provincial People's Committees on agreements in implementing the policy set forth in RAP
are required.
6



SECTION 3
ENTITLEMENT POLICY
22. PAP's will be entitled to the following types of co'pensation and rehabilitation measures:
(a)   PAP's losing agricultural land and cropsf
(i)   The general mechanism for compensation of lost agricultural land vill be
through provision of "land for land" arrangements of equal oroducLive
capacitv. satisfactorv to the PAP.
Ho,wever, if the PAP prefers to receive cash compensation then the
following applies:
-     if the portion of the land to be lost represents 25% or less of the
total area of the landholding. and the remaining land is still a viable
economic holding. cash compensation, at full replacement cost.
may be provided to the P.AP; or
if more than 25% of a villapger s ag>ricultural land is acquired and
the remaining holdin2 is not viable then the Project xill acquire the
entire landholding and provide cash comnp-nsation at full
replacement cost.
(ii)   PAP's will be compensated for the loss of standing crops and fruit or
industrial trees at market price. Productive trees will be compensated at
replacement cost.  Fruit trees will be compensated for the remaining
harvests.
(iii,  P   *APs whose land is temporarily taken by the wvorks under tne each suD-
Project will be compensated for their loss of income. standomng crops anc
for the cost of soil restoration and damaged infrastructure. Land will be
rehabilitated after the project construction by PN4B
(b)   PAP's losin_ residential land and house/structure
(i)   Tne mechanism for compensating loss of residential land and structures
will be: (1) the provision of replacement residential land (house site and
garden) of equivalent size. satisfactorn to the PAP or cash compensation at
replacement cost according to P.APs options. and (2) cash compensation
reflecting full replacement cost of the house/structur-es. without deduction
for depreciation or salvage materials or compensate in kind according to
PAPs' options.
(ii)  If residential land is only partiallv being affected by the Project and the
remaining areas are not sufficient for rieorganizing PAPs' then at the
request of the PAP. the entire residential land \vill be acquired at full
replacement cost.
7



(iii)  If house/other structurc is only partially being affected by the Project and
the remaining areas are not conmenient to using, the house! structure wil] be
acquired at full replacement cost, wvithout depreciation.
(iv)  Tenants, who have leased a house for residential purposes will be provided.
with a cash grant of six months rental fee at the prevailing market rate in  .4.
the area, and will be assisted in identify`ing altemative accomrodation.
(c)   P.AP's losing business
(i)   The mechanism for compensating loss of business w.ill be: (]) the pro\ision
of alternative business site of equal size and accessibility to customers.
satisfactory to the PAP; (2) cash compensation for lost business strucrure
reflecting full replacement cost of the structures. without depreciation, and
(3) cash compensation for the loss of income dungn the transition peniod.
(d)   P..P's Arill also be provided compensation at full replacement cost, withoul
deduction for depreciation and salvage materials for any other fixed assets
affected in part or in toto by the project. such as tombs and wvater vells, etc.
23. hI cases wrhere communitv infrastructure such as schools, factories, wvater sources. roads.
sewage systems is damaged, PMIB of the MOI and EVNI    will ensure that these wvould be
restored or repaired as the case may be. at no cost to the community.
24.   Besides the direct compensation for the losses. PAPs also will be entitled to
subsidies/allowvances as stipulated in the Decree No.22 of GCO. These subsidies/ allowances
are as below:
a) Transportation allowZance
According to the Article 17 Of Decree 22/19918 CP. all PAP relocating w'ithhn The
province are entitled to a minimum allowsrance of I million V'ND and maximum of 3
million VN\TD. All PAP relocating out of the province  are entitled to a minimum
allowance of 3 million VND and maximum of 5 million VND. This subsidv allo%\ancc
is for the transportation of their salvageable materials and living facilities.
b) Subsistence allowance
According to Article 25 of Decree 22/1998 CP, all relocatino PAP shall, for a Deriod of
six months receive a cash allowance equal to 30 kg of rice of average price per month
for family member. If PAP have to be relocated to another province and the irnpact is
severelv, this subsidy period could be for one year.
c) Rehabilitation Allowance
PAPs. who are permanently affected more than 25% of productive land or incomes.
will be entitled to trainings or other economic rehabilitation programs: form 1000.000
to \VNDl.5OO,OO0 /HH.
d) Relocation bonus



Accordinc to Article 26 cf Decree 22/ 199S CP. a bonus of S mmI will be av,'awded to
PAP wvho dismanr.le the.r houses and vacate their premises in accordance wvith the
resettlement schedule of PRAP will get a maximum bonus of 5,000,000 VNID/ HH.
25. By the nature of the project impacts, the impacted categories are classified into 7
categ-ories. The entitleement matrix is a-tached (see annex 1)
SECTION 4
PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION
26. The locai authorities and its relevan.t orc anrizations. P.APs and host cormunuties .xiil
participate throughout the various staces of th-e planning and implemen2ation of R,APs. For
tlhese purposes and prior to thhe preparation of P-APs. the P.APs will be fully informed of the
provisions ofithis Policy Framnewvork a, public meetings held ;by the respective PC,`?MB.
^, Each PATP will be fullv miforned and consulted by the relevant District Peoples Committee
and/or Cornrunes Peoples' Cor='ziteets of heir entilrements and rehabilitation choice. runder
Lhe respective RAP
SECTION 5
BASELINE INTFORIANTION
A.    Census and Inventory
2S. The baseline informaTion will include tile followinz irnomnatior fo. eac. PA P Iosennld:
(a)   number of persons and names:
(b)   number. type. and area of the houses lost:
(c)   number and area of all the residential plots los;:
(d)   number. category aund area of azricultural land lost:
(e)   quantir\ and types of crops and trees lost:
(f)   businesses lost includirnc sltuctures. !and and othe- fixed assets:
(a)   productive assets lost as a cerceniace ofltotal productive assets:
(h)   quantity and category of other fixed assets affected by eacn sub-Pro,ec:: and
(i?   temporanc damage To productive assets.
The inventory form is attached (see annex 2)
9. The entitlentnts of a-set.s and land affected are calculated based on the abov-e n:fo=-r,2;:o0.1
The entitlement form is attached (see an2nex _
B.    Resettlement Action Plan
30. The baseline information for a RAP will include: a) ar. Census and Inventory (see above):
and b) a detailed socioeconomic su.vev of all P.AP's describing their aoe. s.ex. ethimcirv.
education. occupation. sources of income. and total household income. The form for socio-
economic is attached (see aniex 4).
9



SECTION 6
IIP LEMENTATI ON' ARRAiN CGENMENiTS
A.    Implementation Schedule
31. A detailed implementation schedule of the various activities to be undertak-en vill be
included in each RAP.
32. Pa\-Tment of compensation and furnishino of other rehabilitation entitlements (in cash or in-
..  *  Liknd). and relocation if that be the case. will be coriTcleiec pnor awardinc. contracts for ciil2
works.
B.    Complaints and Grievances
33. Complaints and grievances related to any aspec; of RAP's. includino the deiermnined area
and price of the lost assets. xill be handled as follox\s:
First step:
If any person.is agcrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation program.
he/she can lodge an oral or wvritten grievance with com.mune authorities. Commune Peopie's
Committee will resolve the issue within fifieen davs from the date it receive the comclaint.
Second step:
if any aggrieved person is no, satisfied with the decision in stage i, he/she cain brine
the complaint to the District Peoole's Cornri-iee (DPC) or District Rese-ttlenient Comm... e
(DRC) within fifteen days from the date of the receipt ofFthe decision in stace I. The Distri;c
People's Comrmittee (DRC) or District Resettlement Corrmmittee (DRC) will reach a decisiorn
on the complaint within fifteen days.
Third stcp:
if the PAP is still not satisfied vit'h the de.csioln at distric; level. n'she can arpea' o
the Provincial People's Co=ntitee  (PCC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee (PrsC)
within 15 days of receivino the decision of the DPC or DRC. The Provincial Peop-e's
Committee (PRC) or Provincial Resettlement Comri-tee (CRC) \vill reach a decisilon on tDn
complaint within fifteen days.
Fourth step:
If the PAP is not satisfied \vu-h the decision of ;he Provipciclal lee. the case :-m2\- me
submitted for consideration bv the District Court wvithin I, days of receivine the
decision of the PPC or PRC.
34. PAP's will be exempted from all administrative and le-al fees.
C.    Supervision. Ilonitoring and Evaluation
3-. Implementation of RAPs will be regularly supervised and monitored by the respective
PC/PMB in coordination with the respective District Peoples' Comminees and Cormnmunes. The
findings will be recorded in quanerly reporns to be fumished to EVN or MOI.
lntemal monitoring, and supervision will:
10



S~~~~~~~~~~~ K-      ' *, I-- .-;_..._ 
(a)    Verify that the baseline information of all PAP's has been carried out and that the
valuation of assets lost or damaged. and the provision of compensation,
resettlement and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in
accordance with the provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective RAP.
(b)    Oversee tha; the Inventories and RAP's are impler'4i ied as desicned and
approved.
c 'erif- that funds for implementinc the LivenTories and  -,P's arte provided to the
respectiv/e PN2Bs at local  l(proinciaL/district) in a  rntely manner and in
amounts sufficient for their purposes. and that such funIds ale used by the
respective PM4B's in accordance with the provisions oif RAP.
(d      i Record all crievances and their resolution and ensure that comnplaints are deal
With in a timely manner.
'6. A.n independent agencv or agrencies or indi' idual consultant will be retained bk PNMB of the
M\OI and E\N     to periodically  cam  out external mo itorino  and evaluation of the
implementation of RAP's. The independent acencies %vill be academic or research institulions.
non-Govern-mental Organizations (NGO) or independent consulting firms, all wvith qualified and
experienced stazff and terms of reference acceptable to the World Banrk
>, In addition to \~ef:in_ the irorrmation furnished in the internal super-vision and monitonc
reports of the respective PMBs. the external monitonn  agency will visit a sarmple of % % of
household PAPs in each relevant provhince six months after each PRP imi-lernentation ;c
(a)    Detemine whether the procediures for PA-.Ps participation and deliveery of
compensation and othe- rehabilitation entitlements has been done in accordance
with this Policy Framew,;ork and RAP
(b)    Assess if the Policy Framevorl obJect1ve or enlnancenient or at i-ast restoration-
of livinQ standards andi income levteis of P.APs have beei inet.
(c)    Gather cualitative indications of the social and economic impact of Project
implementation on the PAPs.
(d)    Sugcest modification in the implementation procedures of RLAPs. as the case may
be. to achieve the p inciples and objectives ofthis Policy Fraiework.
SECTION 7
COSTS ANYD BUDGET
38. Each RAP will include detailed cost of compensation and other rehabilitation entitlements
and relocation of PAPs. if that be the case. with a breakdown bv aricultural land. residential
lanid. business land. houses, businesses and other assets. The cost estimates wvill mak-e adequate
pro\Vislo for conmnaencies.
'9. Sources of funding for the various RAP acti\vities will be clearlv sDecified in the cost
tables. For SEIER sub-projects. fund's for implementing RAP's will be from counterpart funds
] 1



based on1 budgutary reouirements established by local Oemovtements (district and comiune
peoples committees) in consultation wvit!h the PAP's.
Annexes
i.Entitlemen. tr !
. Inventor\ of Project Affected PeoLle
- Enti]lements of Project AffecLed People
f Socio-Econonic Household Data Sheet of Project .Affected People
c   _



lENIIT11l   IF' NTM MATRI X                                                                ANNEX I
Ty1)pe of 1(155            AppJlicalioii    Defrinition of               Coiiipcnlsatioii I'ulic.)'                             I ilpleiiicilii;iiui Issues
entitled PAtPs
Tcnmporaiy acqpi Isit ion  All   P'A Nl'  P I',\s- Cash comlpcinsat il for affiected trees at the              Tieccs havc toi he clii arc rcgiilaicd by Article 7 or thie
of productiave l;ud in    hav     ifc trecs,  withi/wit hoot lan1(l  replaccinicut cost plus Cost forl ctitt lug t CCs,  G()s'ci-limc   Dcci cc 5'hI 1999/NID-CPI, Jujly 8th  I 999 on [lie
ROW                       Crops,  othlc  cci ti ficate       cr ops  al market p ice. Number or ciol pipotcct ion of tlie Ii igli voltagc nci woi ks.
aswcis     ill inicluded( inl Iic   p)attCiils to be coippensaited bais(d onl the timei
ROW             inventory or ablc   of' temporarily acqluiredl of kland.           - PMI3   and  local auimtiiitiCs,  deteriniteii  and  cnisurc that
to   prove    laind  No coimpensatioin for- lan                    comppciistioni foi tIrccs will bc ait thc rcplaccrmint cost ind for
occupancy    prior                                                 crops at ilic rmaiket pfice. If IPAlP is rcquicstcd ror cutting
toCtrrdae It    -   Rchuabilita   lan    a      (tr the  poei   affectced tiees, PIMII will pay mioney four this wvork. PAIP has
Coilstrliet oil.                               lighjt roi uisigslvaehl    res
- Full1 coimpenisatioii at least 01 iiioiitli bcfoice land clearance.
Payicnit to l'AA's w~ill be delivci ctl by P'!lB alldl Resctllcinctit
Conimiiittecs (Rtcs)
-A ff-ctct( laud ini ROW\ willI hc chiabuilitalcd by, cont(ractors afler
thec pi ojecc coiustriictioii and land  couild  b)e used with thec
reshi ctedi pur poses.
- F inance  a va ilab Ic  for Coimpciisat ion and  well ainformlation
disclouse/ disscminiiatc
2    Tcemporary acquisition    All    P'A 1)s        -do-            C ashI Coiupeuil5tionl for. affeced filuit trees  T ices have to he ciii arc icegulated  by) Article 7 of thiv
of residential and       wvithi orchards                      aiid trees at i cplacmeicit CoIst,             Govcummencut D)cci cc 5'I/ 1999/Ni )-CP', Jiiily 8Ih, I1999 oil tlie
garden lind iii ROW       or. treces  ill                     - No collilpcis;Ition r(i, laud                pi oteclioil of the high voltage" uciwol ks.
without hiotuse or        RO0W
sinictinres inl ROW                                           -  Rehabilitat    lad   alr     le   p~ct      -pM Ij and    local aiitlionilies,  dicie  e-an~id  enisure- tatt
cl)Ilst I lId lOll.                en~~Colinpeilsat ionl for. tuces willi be at tlie relilaterneut cost. If PAl' is
requested fmi chit ing affected ti ces, PM 413 will pay mionecy for
thiis win k. P'AP has Irighit for using sailvalgeale) trees.
- Fill comiupensation t In AlPs at least 01 mioiith before land
dc ai anice. Aff'cied( laud in ROW will be rehabilitated by
conlti actois ancer tlIre projcti conistruictioni
P laymueint to PA\Ils wcill be dIeliverced by P 1\ I] andt RCs
-Finance   available  for- comipciisatioii andt  well iniformalitioni
dlisclose/ disscuuuiiuatc
3    Termpoiary imlpact oni    All     'AlI's        -do-          I InoIu S /1IIiI( huidi:- I house nuil d                     iiiildiig have tol he (demtolishied or couldl be existedI
rcsidIcnd al and garden   h ave                               - PAP  ,in opt ''  i) Rcilill 111uil 11>csor   ac   I o                .IlaIcl  ).Aiil  8  o   l...vmncl 
-~  -  n,...-.     __                        er'it;,iil ~~'  i uitc'     f te    (Ivernlucut   Dcre



Nt          '[)'rpr or loss      Applicn(iorr      Definritiinr of               Crlilrlrlsatirlrr lolicy)                               tlipljcilliCiitation IssIics
.ctit(led PAl's
land. Partial             hronse/buildin                       b)uil(lrnig  in  ROW    with hilc  connditions  5419'9/NI)-CI', July 8". 1999 On tlie p-roiectioll of tilhe higl
houscAhuilding witiin     g         awnl                       icgulatdlbc( y b  Alticlc 8 of tlre Government  voltagc nct"oiks.                      ;---
ROW   (arca in RO\V       trccs/fr tiit                        Decrcc 5'4/1999/ND-CIU, July 8" 1999 on Ilic    - Consultalion foi PAI`s oplio   ns ni rca1JM ieCir lhousc in ROW\
less thia  25% of lotal    trCCS      in                       piolction   of thlle  lighi voltagc  networks.  o move ouit of RO\V.
arca) and tlic             ROW                                 Suibsid) allowance     for firecpoof materials     P I13 and   local authiorities  deteiniinc and   ensure that
demolished area (does                                          and   lighliniig  arrestors  for tle  exIRing      PMI-   ii lI  loc.         I
not inmpact 1to thle                                           housc/building;, or  ii) Cash compelnIsation for  compensation  will he   at the   lplacement      cost, without
rciaining                                                     tlhc (lilecily affccIcd rooms at tlle Icplacemieuit  d(le ction for- salvageable matel ials
hiouse/btiilIdilg.                                             cost and cost for dcillolisililng  an affctcdl. - I'APs will demiiolishi the impacted part/ room and reconstriuctor
Residential laud( and                                          room                                             improve tileir 1houses tlhemnselves.
garden land ouitside of                                        - No coripcilsatlion for land.                   - F1il compensation foi Irecs anrd 1-huit trees at Ieast 01 moth
ROW    is suirlcient for                                       -   Rehabilitate   anid   after ilic lhoj Ict    ) ef(rc land clearancc. If PAIP is re(utiested for cttiiig affccted
re-organizing (more                                            cotirltlclioll by colillactols.                 tIces, 1P113 \ill pay inmonei ror  I Iris work. IPAP has righlt for
tliani 60 n 2 il ilie tcrbian                                   VI cc ard(ii r, ,,i                             rsilrlr s;dv;rgealrle lices.
area arid 100 I n2 in ,IC                                       - irprperrc trls,1ll fol affeclted lict s arrilill cirtitlemerit to PAI1 icicpactl ohlse/ibildinlg      at least
ruiral ar ea).                                                 trelles at tIre replaces ipaced ni rcirt cost.ig                                                             t las
)03 mrnritirs before land clear ance.
A Itriwa rices:                     - P'avment nto PA's will lie tivered uly PIM1 3 anrd RCs
- l(Clc;lotirr  allowarice of 30 kg of rice
e(liii\';HICit p)(>i icisolz 500 P )lvl irrorith  six  arland in IMW cotil( lic uise(d with restricte(d purposes.
IlOll(is                                       - Finance availalile for- complier-satiorr and well informration
disclose/ d issen irate
4    Temporary impact on        All    IPA P's         -do-          I lorise/ hilildiug:                            - I louse and blildilng have lo lie dermuolishled or cotild be existed
residential and or         have                                - PAIP can oipt for : i) Keraira iliit Iruiriscs or  arc  icglateti biy  Article  8  of tlie  Government  Decree
garden land. Impact        house/burildin                      building  in   ROW      with  tIme  cond(litiois  54/1999/NI)-0P, Juil 8"'. 1999 oni tire protection of tile higi
more than 25% or Iess      g         arid                      Icgr laled b! Aiticle 8 Of   tire (lcGverniirenit  voltage nctworks.
thlan 25%vO of total      trees/frnit                          l     ccl< .'.4/1999/NI)-C.I' July  d r1999 oin the  - Corsrillatiom forr PAl's options On remain thlieir holise in ROW
lrouseciiulildirrg area but  trees    ii.                      protection  of tlie Iiigl  voltagc  networks.   or lrlove unit ofR(M)W
the deicnrolished(l area  I1()\W                              ;Sulisidiy ;ollo\\wa,irc  lii0 Fileproof natel ials  - PIM31 and local autholi itics  iletieir ic arnd  cnsure  that
svill impact to tile                                           ari(i lighiltling  arrcstols  for  tilc  cxistillg  colllrrlsation will be replaccilrilrt cost at tlire tiire orpayneirlit.
remaininig Of                                                  lionise/lbiildililg; oi ii) Cash Cominliorisaiirnic at
hosisc/struclurre . Land                                        I eplalccricill cuist for frill alcas of irnpacte(l  - I'Al's wi  demolish  lc im'sacte  arcas
otitsi(lc of RO\V is                                            hourse/hlrildinm^.                             inriplvoc  elicir houses  iciisele s.
suifficienit for                                                 NO CorripeirSatiiil ol l;ani.               - Frill comilipeisaliorr for tICes andl ftii ittecs to P'APs at Icast 01
reorgalliZinig ( iiiOiC                                         -   tClralriitate(C  arid(  afler  tlire  p oject  iirorithi heroe  arid clearance  If I\Al' is ic(rICst(ed fOr cuttifig
Ilian) 60 m2 innltire rrbianr                                   rol:'tictilioll ry colritractrICos,             affecteil tIICes, P'M i will pa)' mniciY for  tIhis work. PAI' has
area andl 100 mn2 in ilic                                                                                       right for ulsing salvarcalile tICCs.
rtiral area).                                                  T   li.c ;nr  fririi t I-cc
_..- 1Fill  cinplisationir for iipactd .. houIse I arid allowan<Ics  to



N'       T~y pe oif loss       AplitliMritini    D)cfiliiitjii  if             (Aiiilipeilltioii Poilicy                                  Iiiilileilieiit:1ioiili I'Sllc
ctiiiitle(i 'A l's
- (iilipCIisinti(in hol allc-ctci Ii ccs anild finlit  PAN,\l's   least 03 mioiilhis befoic land clmaiaicc.
treecs at hle epIlamicnict cost.                   P la\iymcnt it) PIA 's svill tic delivered by PNIB and RCs
A llowaiiees:                                     - (lcaicd  esildiitial coiil(Iliew iciise  with icstrictedI purposes.
- iclocatitig allowancc of 30 kg of iecce          Fiimincc a\.ailalile fot ciimpi1icisati(il/ iI iahilitaition awld well
etqoivalCoit per pecrsoit Jim niontlil ill Six   iiifnriiiatii'ii disclose! idis'emiiiiate
5     Temporary impact oni      All PAlls have          -uno-         PAP!; can opt for- (iinc of the followings:        -I louse aiild biillding, lave to) 1c ilciiiolislicul or couild bec xistc(I
uesidcnhiial and( or       hotisc/biiildiuig                      i) Remin    tlicii hoses ot btidj~, in, IZO~\    at c  tei lte    b       Itic      ofte      Gv    inntD       rc
garden lanld inl ROW.      aid rc,fiimiil                        w11it  l c cond(itioits regulate11d by) Aiticlc (8 of 5'l/I 999/ND)-CT'. July 8'', 199)') oni tli protcciloni of the hiighi
Full or pailial           ticcs Ill )oW                           lie (ovei miiciit D)ecrce S'l/I99o/Nl)_( ,p, liii),' viillaiw, tuctwo ks,
hommsc/bui (hug                                 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,999) Oil (lic lit olectioii of thc hligh voltage  - iontsiuliatii'i fur l'A l"s opt 'ins oii itiminai tlheir lhoise iii ROW\
iimpaclcd ind land                                               iicisoiiks  Siibsiidy allowance    for rireproof  0i iiiiivc out of Mm()
OuitSi(lc of is tiot                                             iiiatcrials  aiii  lightliliiig  ai resin s  for  thec  - PNitI  uid local atithliom  ics ulici itiiiiue  aiid  enisure  that
sufficienit for                                                  existingj-  hoisc/buiildiiug;   oi   ii)   Cash   coinpeilsatiiii  will he all lepl;lceiuieiit  cost "it thec tiutue of
reorganlizing (less than11                                       ciimpeiisation for thec wholc residcential are a  paymiicii.
60 mu2 in theici: ban area                                       which    PAll occupied     (niot  only  for  thie  - Replaceineim  laiild, aiid rescitleiviiii sites deCveIlopment.
and 100 mn2 inii th  i oial                                      imlpacted n1au s) and pr[ope ties associated wviill)-
arFe,)                                                           ocenpied Ilaud at( reIla),cciuicnt cost. Imlp"Iactd  PAl,\P i cccivc 
land wsill he obtained by local aulthorities; or,   PAI'As icceciving  onena.iwl            dciuioBli thie imupacted
ii) 1-aund for laid' with ilic samie area  PAP    areas aitd reeouis itici/oi imuplove tlucim hnoises thtemselves.
occuipiedh and cash at repflacemenclt Cost for- the  - Fllcmcnao         o   lcradf'iitcetoPN             tIcs 0
occupied  by Pi\l' wsoil b  obtindi   byl loarld miouith  beic land ceam awce     If l'AI' is requecstedi for cumtitigi
ai oupd it   PPwl         e  hildb        lo   al ffecte(i l ices, PM B 'vwillI pay mioniey for  thiis work. PAP has
Ciuuuipeisatioui for affected Ii cs. jul fit   ih olnsugslagalkic
teces at ilie i epllaccinlcut cost               - Foil complensation ihm latnd umpacteid hiouse and allowances to
IPANl atl least 05 imoniths be fore land c leamrace.
Al In na mices:                      - ~~~~~Payment to l'AI's will lie dcliveied by Il'M13 awln RtCs
-Re locahliug al1lowanice  of  30  kg   o f 'icec  CleatedI ecsidcnt ia  ouui1(1 be misecl withi restrictedi puriposes.
eqiluivaleuut pCi pcusuuuu ple iiiiiiili ill six mlouthls  -Finaince! l;uiul  available  liOr conmpcnsation! ichuabilitationl and
i awpiuputation allowauc  fowcoaiu       'I     sell inbi iiiaiii'iul (lisel(ise/ disseuiliate.
aceodinhug toi lie Couuupeuis;utiuin Occecre
22/I 99" (T' (datcd Apii I1 2, 1 998 olf( ;()V.   - l'M B ecn-uusuh \\ ithi P'AP who ai e eligible to  rehabilitation for
ilicii oiptioius andi p1i pai e pm mposal for leluabilitatiocil progranus inl
- lelualuIiiataiouu assistancec if P'AN           ilic elii d of RAPIm upleniuitualition
_________  -                    ~~~~~~~~~~~er~_pcmacnly, lrsimigli,isinicss oi i-ionic thiaii 2-5%'n



N'          1       Iype of loss  Arpplicalion     D)elFiinoi of                Comuplersaliori l'olic)                                 IIcnirtilnalit:itIoi
n _i(ile(r I'Al's
of trIcir in/COmCeS.
- liCClltivC foi [elocating in a Itimely nImlmner:
5,000,000 VND/I III
6    IPerimianieint acqjnisitiio ( of All  'A I's      -do-         FOr Al'AP lo.rsig produ(ctie land:               - Consirllatini forr l'AlP's oltionis on land compensation.
land       oro-     tOwCe  occulpied  ridltl                   a    Lonld lass les.s tllhn  ,5'  of tlreii tolal - PMiB+  andl local aitlhoritics (ictcriiiilie  andl  ensure that
forind(aliorils,  snlistalioii aiiul I/lzopertics                  /(llzfilolelBlla ........../............ s   compensation   will he at replacecillot    cost at ti e time Of
andl access roa(ds etc.    aSsociate(l
wvitil     It.,,(f                   - f ashi compensation fori thc lost area  if the  liaYlnrciit
permanlaenily                        rcniriiming plot is still ecolnomniCully viabl.  - Rcplacemcnt iand, and rcscitlciincnt sites development.
impacted    by                       - Cash compensation foi thle whole impacted      - PA's iccciving coulpeinsatiion vwill (deiiolislh tlc impacted
lowels                                plot if tile ienlairing plot is not econoilically  aleas and f econstirctl/or improve lieir lhouses lieelscives.
foundations, 'il)lC.                                                                 - 1:111 e CoripnSation for tIce-s and f-ruiit tices to PANs at Ieast 01
suhstation andl                       - Cash coimpenrsatiorn for pilolpeltics associated  mlonillh belone landl cklarance. If P'AIP is requestesd for ciutting
.access  roaRds                       witlh landl                                     affeciel tIres, I'Mi wvill pay mloney for Ithis work. PAP ha;s
ctc.                                 11  1a,(d loss e(uial o/   ma/ar dralin 2,501) of rightg salvageable (rees.
Oul'll' t(ol(it Ilol(I(/lieloldis.v
ti//jr ta/al l(//n/ll/aldi//Ps:  - Full copcimpesation for, impacted lImlosC  al(l allowansces  to
I'AI' can oit ( for te f follovings:            IPAP- al least 05 nmoutils before land clearance.
i) Tand  for landld' \vil tIhe samle area and   - No a"awiad civil work contract before completion of
prodlivctie ' l nllpacte(d area if tlhe ie maningli  compensalion and reorganizing hoises or relocation.
Irols ae still  ccororilicviahle andl for lte  - l'ayicnt to IPAl's 'vill be deliveiedb l'NlB3 andl RCs
whole iriripactedi pitrlt if (lhe rcemaining pilots  ',-                              .t            C
ale rio(l ccollorlicviable                      - Finance/ lanrd  available  for comirpenIrsation/ relhabilitation and
it.cash for land at the r..taceriierrm cost.  /\ell infolmatio(ln disclosc/(lisseu/liratc.
in) C.ash] oi landl al (llc IeCplawcenlen cost,
* Compesation     for- 1cs arnd a ffcted fuiti - I'PMi consult wilht PAIP who aie eligible to   relabi ilitatinr for
e1ces at (llc l-eIllacclilent cm.             ilicii oIre ions andl prepare pr(opiosal for reitcabilitation programs in
.rees .t tIre replaccirreirt cost,             the lpioid Of RAIP implniocltlatior.
Rehabilitation assistarce                      - PAP's \vill he granted with LIand(l lse Right CertiFicate
ol P'A\l' losinig l(csidlt'lial ninI g:litsCll
1;,,,z1: v~~~ilhmout palymetonl fadlnlillisllative ficcs.
- 11 /cii/a/iillg la/int is suluFicrleit rot
i/o)g;//i/wing (/i1(1/ 1Cl//i 60 mi? rim the m/rbami
alrc amird 100 r1i2 im tilic riral arca): (Cashl
riiclpen,;;tlioll fol loms alca anid assces
.associtllar(l witlr lanr.
-   lenII/  /i//ill/pg l/rI is nort mfrr,rie mrtolt
/errgamriing:



TypC oir lriss       A pp Ilic:itioii  D)efilnitioii of             ZoilijpCisritiflhi P'olicy,                           IiilpleIiCIItationl Issuecs
. ,Cill(ed PAPs
PAP   can opt for i) cash comlpensation at
replacemcnt cost for land and assets on land, o(-
ii) "land flor land" coinmcnsation fori the whole
residential arca which PAP occulpiCd (n0ot nily)
for  the  impactcd    arcas)  and   propertics
associated with occupied land. For affccic(d
housc and huilding, tlhc sam1c cntitlemcnt to
IAIP of categorics 3 or 1 or 5.
7    PAP      impacted     on All       PAIPs         -do-         (a) Temporary impact on    otisimmess or oli(l  -F 1ull comlpensation for incomes lost to PAPs at Icast 01 month
blsillcss or otlier scrvices imnpactcd  on1                                                                   hcforc land clearancc.
bi)isincss  andl                     scl ticcs.                                     - I'M  colnstilt with I'AP who are eligiblc to rehabilitation for
ollther sctiCeS                     ( nl1lCmew.;l1ioll for incollce lost in tlhc affected  tlhcil- optionns and liarclae piopsal for rclhabilitation prograims in
linilCe                                        the pci lodl (of RkAP' implementation.
(h) PIer IonnIcot1 impact oil hlnsiimcss or1 other
sel viucs
RclwhmilljI(Ioll mIssistalicc
. _ __ . _. _ . . _ . .... ... __ _ .. _ _ _. . _ .__ 



ANNEX 2
Vietnam: SEIER Project
Inventory of Project Affectedl Peoplo
Provinice. _____                                                                  District: _          _                                                Coin;i lnlie                                             |
Snrvcy  Nanic of  fln of  fold      ~~andiiu tob ino                                                                                                                                          icioa
Suirvy     Niniic nf    No of          FInt:l    Acquicl ill  I rI.c                       n, of Aswts                              ILoss of(i opc         __li       _          Ollict L sscs           Tcrirorary
NJo       I Icrd ,,   pcrslra d   .rrlIroIrIi     1,) II IC  ac '                                                                                           .ScCr                                        I,.i5
I Intisclinl(I  ill IIlilol(I Of I1 ll1s1f- ill rf    of                                                                                                                                         (spccify)
loriscirnid  ii I Iliold  O  IIIiiiIrI Il NI  f1rrrIw  1rird  .Iiuthi,cs  NSludurlesC  Atc., o(    ill( (IIIcs 
Ilypc 1 lsI    pci manrrnlt  tcmlipol il y  lesid(lial Il(Ios l  Il;c  I'aVlddn  Olel   I rlilrs.  ltrslrlclrcc  Il11silicss  Iicolric
sIrriflics      (NI')         (Nlo) (mn          st       anI        l ca  (S;rccify)  'sell, cic  (rcrtc(l)    I ost     Ioss
(r.I')  ~   Irrr,lNu cr  (N'i)           (Mn n  ; yprC



ANNEX 3
Vietnami: SEIER Project
Entitlemetiits of Project Affectedl People
Province:                                                       District                                                       Coliltutinie  _
Survey    NJame of          Compensation for l and           Compensation for Structures       Compensation for Crops & T rees    Compensation for Oiher Assets       Total in Dong
No.      Head of                                                                                                                     IwetlsjTomhs etc )
I louselhold  Ouantity  Unit Oraice  Entitnlement  On a nity  U nil Price  Elititieleent  Quantilty  U nit IPrice  Entitlement  00 ua ntity  U nit Price  Eniltimem ent
Sq. Meters Sq. Meters   in Dong     Sq Meters   in Donq      in Dong      Unit     in D)ong    in Donyg      Ulnit   in Dong    in Deng
.. .... . ... . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                                  g_                                                               Do____



ANNEX 4
Vietiiani: .SEIER Project
Socio-Economic Houselhold              Data Slheet of Project Affected People
Provxilicc:                               DI) strict:                  __             Collillic: ____                            \'ilgc    ___                 -
Naime of llousehold Member                                                        Occupation and                     Estimated Total
Survey No.       Address of                                                    Sex     Age     Ethnic Group    Education    Sources of Income   Employnient    Income per Year
Houschold                                                                                                                   lV ND)
I_   ___   _  ______._   _  _  _  ___  _ _  _  _  _  ._______________________________________________



T& DI - Cretit No 3034+
110kV Dai An substation - Hai Duiong
ANNEX 2
INVENTORY OF PROJECT AFFECTED PEOPLE
Loss of
Loss of Assets                Loss of Crop       other       Other Losses
6                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~assets
z                                           No. of     Total     Land to be Loss as                                                                                     Temporar
Name of Head of Household      person  landholding of acquired in  % of Number                Area of  rutEg.,                                              y Losses
Strujcture  Structure resident  rut               tombs,                        seiy
in HHs  HIH in nm2  m2 by Type  total and type rmanent  traryuae land trees lost Paddy area  other  t   Residence Busines Income (specify)
s oft   permia21c nt teniro   al lost  type aitd  (m2)  (specify) wNtisp etc (rented) s Lost  Loss
(rn2)    (nm2)   lost                    (scf)(No. anid
structLure                 (m2)   lnumber                   Type)
Catin Gianig District
1 Dai An Industrial Zone                           1.700.800    12.528     1%       ()       0        0       0      0    12.528      0       0        0      0     0       0
2 Lien Hong Argricultural Co-operative               475.000     4.250     1%       0        0         0    143      0     4.107       0       0       0      0     0       0
3 Nguyen Van Tuyen                             3         375         25    7%       0         0        0     25       0       -        0       0       0      0     0       0
4Nguyen Van Hoi                                4         435         54   12%Xc,    0          |       0     20       0       34       0       0       0      0     0       0
5 Nguyen Van Binh                             5        1.084        64     6%       0        0         0     20      0        44       0       0       0      0     0       0
6 Nguyen Van Thinh                            4          675        30     4%       0        0         0     30      0        -        0       0       0      0     0       0
Gia Loc District
I Institute of Gia Loc Food ProdcLts                 100.500     6.7X0     7%       0        0        0    200       0     6.580       0       0       0      0     0       0
3 Pham Van Ngo                                5        1.270        79     6%       0        0         0     79      0        -        0       0       0      0     0       0
4 Nguyen Van Tho                              5          750        34     5%       0        0         0      0      0        34       0       0       0      0     0       0
SBui The Thenh                                6          500         50   10%       0        0         0      0      0        50       0       0       0      0     0       0



Annex 3
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS FOR COMPENSATION
AND OTHER IMPLEMENTATION EXPENDITURES
Unit: VND
No.                     Item                    Unit   Quantity      Unit Price           Total
I    Compensation cost                                                                      857.817.500
1.1  Compensation for land acquisition
a Permanently land acquiisition                       13.494
Land acquisition for substation construction in  m2  8.320            35.000           291.182.500
Dai An Industrial Zone                      .
Agriculture land                           m2        4.657            50.000           232.850.000
Residental land (garden)                   m2          517           500.000           258.500.000
b Compensation for crop on permanent land
acquisition
Agriculture land - (Rice)                  m2        4.657             5.000            23.285.000
1.2  Temporary land acquisition in construction
stave
1.3  Temporary land acquisition in ROW
a Compensation for crops on temporary land acquisition
Rice                                       m2       10.400             5.000            52.000.000
1.4  ComPensation of Propertv y
2     Implementation expenditures (1+2+3)                                                   597.258.613
RBs expenditures = 1,89% x total construction       1,89%   25.780.879.000             487.258.613
value (25,780,879,000)
Cost for site clearance                                                                 10.000.000
Monitoring (independent)                                                               100.000.000
3     Contingency                                                                           363.769.028
Contingency fund for unseenable work (15%)                                             218.261.417
Contigency 10%                                                                         145.507.611
4     Cost for RAP measurement, survey and preparation                                       71.803.824
4.1   Preparation                                                                            8.896.168
- Collecting legal document, buying local price  day   _             64.012              896.168
- Translating                             Page         100           30.000             3.000.000
- Programming and processing data                                                       3.000.000
Page I



No.                    Item                    Unit   Quantity     Unit Price           Total
-Organizing conference for RAP preparation  |    l      l                             2.000.000
4.2   Cost for surveying and collecting data                                               8.300.600
I group ( 02 engineer- of e/ectricity, 4 of srwrveying and 4 of workers)
- Cost for renting cars                   day          5           300.000            1.500.000
- Cost for car-park                      Night   __    4     _      50.000  _          200.000
- Cost for going on business            day/pers    5 *10           20.000            1.000.000
- Wages                                 day/pers    5 *10           64.012    ___     3.200.600
- Accommodation                         day/pers    4*10            60.000            2.400.000
4.3   Cost for local authorities                                                           4.586.048
- Authorities                           day/pers     3*3            20.000             180.000
- Household                            household       5            30.000 .150.000
- District                              day/pers     2*2            64.012             256.048
- Cost for meeting_at disricts            time         2         2.000.000            4.000.000
4.4   Public consultation                                                                 10.488.144
- Cost for renting cars                   day          3           300.000             900 000
- Cost for car-park                      Night         2            50.000             100.000
- Cost for going business trips         day/pers     4*3            20.000             240.000
- Wages                                 day/pers     4*3            64.012             768.144
- Accommodation                         day/pers     4*2            60.000             480.000
- Cost for meetings at districts and all
authorized department                    time          4         2.000.000            8.000.000
4.5   Cost for local approval                                                              7.266.288
- Cost for renting cars                   day          6           300.000            1.800.000
- Cost for car-park                      Night         5            50.000             250.000
- Cost for going on business trips      day/pers     6*4            20.000             480 000
-Wages                                  day/pers     6*4            64.012            1.536.288
- Accommodation                         day/pers     5*4            60.000            1.200.000
- Cost for meetings at districts and all
authorized department                     time       2*2           500.000            2.000.000
4.6   RAP preparation                                                                     14.202.100
Collecting data of project affected land, houses, structure
a     Social survey                           manday        70           64.012            4.480.840
- Making statistic of land              manday
- Classifying affected house, structure  manday
- Classifying affected trees, land      manday
Page 2



No.                    Item                     Unit   Quantitv      Unit Price           Total
- Collecting complaints, evaluating economic af manday
b     Estimation                                             30            64.012             1.920.360
Researching documents to make estimation  day/pers    3*5
Making estimation                        day/pers     2*4
Making survey sheet                      day/pers      2*3
Completing                               day/pers      1*1
c     Report for RAP                           manday        60            64.012             3.840.720
d     Editing the report                       manday        15            64.012              960.180
e     Translating                               Page        100            30.000            3.000.000
4.7   Other costs                                                                            6.600.000
a     Cost_for travelling the project site                                                   3.000.000
b     Buying documents                                                                        1.000.000
c     Stationery
- Typing by Vietnamese                    Page         100             4.000             400.000
- Typing by English                       Page         100             8.000             800.000
- Photocopy                             Page/book  20* 100              200              400.000
- Pile                                     Pile         20           20.000              400.000
- Others                                                10                               600.000
Nlanagement cost 19% (social insurrance
4.8   15%, medical insurance 2%, Union 2%)                                                   11.464.476
Cost for RAP measurement, survey and
preparation (before VAT)                                                               71.803.824
VAT (10%)                               _  _ _    __                                    7.180.382
Cost for RAP measurement, survey and
preparation after VAT)                   _    _  .___78.984.207
SUBTOTAL                                                        .                   1.897.829.348
Page 3



T& DI - Cretit No 3034+
IlOkV Dai An Substation - Hai Duong province
ANNEX 4
,OCIO - ECONOMIC HOUSEHOLD DATA SHEET OF PROJECT AFFECTED PEOPLI
EDUCATION       OCCUPATION NCOME PER YEAI
High            Worker
Secondary         Teacher
Primary          Business
Farmer
Survey     Name of Household Member         Sex     Age     Education        Occupation      Estimated Total
No   I                                                                                     Income per year
Dictrist: Cam Giang
1 Dai An Industrial Park
2 Lien Hong Argricultural Co-operative |     |            _                            _
3 Nguyen Van Tuyen                    Male     48        9/12            Farmer            15.000.000,00
4 Nguyen Van Hoi       _   _|_         Male    38        12/12           Farmer            17.500.000,00
5_Nguyen Van Binh                     Male     53   |    9/12            Farmer            17.500.000,00
6 Nguyen Van Thinh                    Male     49   9__   9/12           Farmer            13.500.000,00
Dictrist: Gia Loc
1 Institute of Gia Loc Food Products
2 Pham Van Ngo                        Male     45         9/12           Farmer            23.200.000,00
3 Nguyen Van Tho                      Male     47        9/12            Farmer            18.000.000,00
4 Bui The Thenh                       Male     50        9/12            Farmer            16.700.000,00



.  S ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ; .'   ~.
Annex 5: TEMPORARY LAND ACQUISITION DURING CONSTRUCTION STAGE
Agricultural land (m2)           Forest Land (m2)     Residental land  DPD's
No            District             Rie       Cos       Industrial                  Natural        (rn2)     land (m2)
No ____________________  _ District__Rice  Crops      'I'rees  Planted  forest  forest
l Cam Giang                        0          0           0             0           0             0            0
2 Gia Loc                          0          0           0             0            0            0            0
Total                           0          0            0            0            0             0           0
Annex 6: TEMPORARY LAND ACQUISITION IN ROW
Agricultural land (m2)           Forest Land (m2)     Residental land  DPD's
No            District             Rice      Cros      Industrial  Planted forest  Natural        (m2)      land (m2)
___________________Rice_Crops_Tres                      _Planted_fores  forest
I Cam Giang                      6.400        0           0             0           0                          0
2 Gia Loc                        4.000        0           0             0            0            0            0
T1otal                        10.400       0            0            0            0             0           0
Annex 7: PERMANENT LAND ACQUISITION
Agricultural land (m2)           Forest Land (m2)     Residental land  DPD's
No            District            sRice      Crops         Tra     Planted forest  Natural        (m2)      land (m2)
Rice  Crops                Plantedesforest
I Cam Giang                      2.150,00     0           0             0           0             95           0
2 Gia Loc                        2.507,00     0           0             0            0            422          0
Land for substation in Dai An
3 Industrial Zone                8.3 19,50    0           0             0            0            0            0
Total                         12.976,50    0            0            0            0            517          0



ANNEX 8
Entitlement Matrix
No     Type of loss    Application   Definition of           Compensation Policy                       Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
I    Temporary         All    PAPs PAPs             - Cash compensation for affected trees at the  - Trees have to be cut are regulated by Article 7 of
acquisition   of have    trees, with/without   replacement cost plus cost for cutting trees, the Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8t",
productive land in  crops,  other land certificate  crops at market price. Number of crop  1999 on the protection of the high voltage
ROW               assets    in included in the  patterns to be compensated based on the time  networks.
ROW           inventory  or of temporarily acquired of land.         - PMB and Nghe An PC determine and ensure
able to prove  - No compensation for land              that compensation for trees will be at the
land occupancy  - Rehabilitate land  after the  project replacement cost and for crops at the market price.
prior to cut-off construction.                         If PAP is requested for cutting affected trees,
date.                                                  PMB will pay money for this work. PAP has right
for using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation at least 01 month before land
clearance. Payment to PAPs will be delivered by
PMB and Nghe An Resettlement Committees
(RCs).
- Contractors will rehabilitate affected land in
ROW after the project construction and land could
be used with the restricted purposes.
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
2    Temporary         All    PAPs -do-             - Cash compensation for affected fruit trees - Trees have to be cut .are regulated by Article 7 of
acquisition   of with orchards                and trees at replacement cost.          the Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 81h,
residential  and  or trees  in                 - No compensation for land             1999 on the protection of the high voltage
garden  land  in ROW                          - Rehabilitate land  after the  project networks.
ROW      without                              construction.                           - PMB and Nghe An PC determine and ensure
house or structures                                                                   that compensation for trees will be at the
in ROW                                                                                replacement cost. If PAP is requested for cutting
affected trees, PMB will pay money for this work.
PAP has right for using salvageable trees.
- Full compensation to PAPs at least 01 month
before land clearance. Affected land in ROW will
be rehabilitated by contractors after the project
Electric Powver Consuiltinig and Development Cenrter (ECD)                                                                  1



No     Type of loss    Application   Definition of          Compensation Policy                      Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
construction
- Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
RCs
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
3    Temporary impact All    PAPs -do-             House/ building:                       - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and have                       - PAP can opt for: i) Remain their houses or could be existed are regulated by Article 8 of the
garden     land. house/buildin                building in ROW    with the conditions Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8"',
Partial          g        and                 regulated by Article 8 of the Government 1999 on the protection of the high voltage
house/building   trees/fruit                  Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8 h, 1999 on  networks.
within ROW (area trees in ROW                 the protection of the high voltage networks. - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
in ROW less than                              Subsidy allowance for fireproof materials house in ROW or move out of ROW.
25% of total area)                            and lightning arrestors for the existing  - PMB and local authorities determine and ensure
and          the                              house/building; or  ii) Cash compensation  that compensation will be at the replacement cost,
demolished  area                              for the directly affected rooms at the without deduction for salvageable materials
does not impact to                           replacement cost and cost for demolishing
the    remaining                              an affected room .                     - PAPs wlll demolish the Impacted part/ room and
house/building.                                            .                         reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
hos/uidn.                                   - No compensation for land.
Residential  land                              N  censati     land- Full compensation for trees and fruit trees at
and garden land                                  raila      land  after the  project least 01 month before land clearance. If PAP is
outside of ROW                               construction by contractors.           requested for cutting affected trees, PMB will pay
is sufficient for                            Tree and fruit tree                    money for this work. PAP has right for using
re-organizing                                - Compensation for affected trees and fruit salvageable trees.
(more than 60 m2                             trees at the replacement cost.         - Full entitlement to   PAPs impacted   on
in the urban area                            Allowances:                            house/building at least 03 months before land
and 100 m' in the                            Alwne:clearance.
rural area).                                 - Relocating allowance of 30 kg of rice
equivalent per person per month in six  - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
months.                                RCs
- Land in ROW could be used with restricted
purposes.
- Finance available for compensation and well
information disclose/ disseminate
4    Temporary impact All    PAPs -do-            House/ building:                       - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and have house/               - PAP can opt for: i) Remain their houses or could be existed are regulated by Article 8 of the
or garden  land.                            Ih_iildiing in ROW  with the ronditionn  Government Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8"',
Electric Pow'er Consulting and Development Center (ECD)                                                                  2



No     Type of loss    Application   Definition of           Compensation Policy                       Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
Impact more than  Building and                 building  in ROW   with the conditions  1999 on the protection of the high voltage
25%  or less than  trees/fruit                 regulated by Article 8 of the Government networks.
25%    of   total trees in ROW                 Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8"', 1999 on  - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
house/building                                 the protection of the high voltage networks. house in ROW or move out of ROW
area   but   the                               Subsidy allowance for fireproof materials  - PMB and Nghe An PC determine and ensure
demolished  area                               and lightning arrestors for the existing
will impact to the                             house/building; or ii) Cash compensation at that cofmenst
remaining     of                               replacement cost for full areas of impacted  time of payment.
house/structure.                               house/building.                         -      PAPs will demolish the impacted areas and
Land  outside of                               - No compensation for land.             reconstruct/or improve their houses themselves.
ROW is sufficient                              - Rehabilitate land  after the  project - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
for  reorganizing                               .nrehabi      landrafter  t     r      PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
(more than 60 m2                               constructon by contractors.             PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
in the urban area                                                                      will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
and 100 m2 in the                              Tree and fruit tree                     using salvageable trees.
rural area).                                   - Compensation for affected trees and fruit - Full compensation for impacted house and
trees at the replacement cost.          allowances to PAPs at least 03 months before land
Allowances:                             clearance.
- Relocating allowance of 30 kg of rice  - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
equivalent per person per month in six  RCs
months.                                 - Cleared residential could be reused with
restricted purposes.
-   Finance   available  for  compensation/
rehabilitation and well information disclose/
disseminate
5    Temporary impact All PAPs have tdo-           PAPs can opt for one of the followings:  - House and building have to be demolished or
on residential and house/building             i) Remain their houses or building in ROW  could be existed are regulated by Article 8 of the
or garden land in and trees, fruit            with the conditions regulated by Article 8 of Govemment Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, July 8t',
ROW.     Full or trees in ROW                 the Govemment Decree 54/1999/ND-CP, 1999 on the protection of the high voltage
partial                                       July 8"', 1999 on the protection of the high  networks.
house/building                                voltage networks. Subsidy allowance for - Consultation for PAP's options on remain their
impacted and land                             fireproof materials and lightning arrestors for house in ROW or move out of ROW
outside of is not                             the existing house/building; or ii) Cash  - PMB and Nghe An PC determine and ensure
suffic(ent   for                              compensation for the whole residential area  that compensation will be at replacement cost at
reorganizing (less                            whiclh PAP occupied (not only for the   the time of payment.
Electric Power Consuiltinig (anld Dei'elopmient Center (ECD)                                                                3



No     Type of loss    Application   Definition of           Compensation Policy                       Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
than                                           impacted areas) and properties associated  - Replacement land, and  resettlement sites
60 m2 in the urban                             with occupied land at replacement cost. development.
area and 100 m2                                Impacted land will be obtained by local - PAP receive
in the rural area)                             authorities; or ii) "Land for land" with the  - PAPs receiving compensation will demolish the
same area PAP occupied and cash at.
replacementrea  ct forhed affectd cassats impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
replacement cost for the affected assets hue hmevs
associated with land. Local authorities will houses themselves.
obtain Land occupied by PAP.            - Full compensation for trees and fruit trees to
- Compensation foraffecedtreesnd PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
- Compensation for affected trees and fruit PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
trees at the replacement cost.          will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
Allowances/subsidies                    using salvageable trees.
- Relocating allowance of 30 kg of rice - Full compensation for land impacted house and
equivalent per person per month in six months allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
- Transportation allowance for relocating PAP clearance.
according  to the  Compensation  Decree - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
22/1998 CP dated April 22, 1998 of GOV.  RCs
-   Rehabilitation  assistance  if  PAPs - Cleared residential could be used with restricted
permanently losing business or more than purposes.
25% of their incomes.                   - Finance/ land available for compensation/
- Incentive for relocating in a timely manner: rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
5,000,000 VND/HH                        disseminate.
- PMB consult with PAP who are eligible to
rehabilitation for their options and prepare
proposal for rehabilitation programs in the period
of RAP implementation.
6    Permanent        All     PAPs -do-            For PAP losing productive land:         - Consultation  for PAP's options on   land
acquisition of land occupied land             a. Land loss less thaan 25% of their total compensation.
for         tower and properties                  landholdings                        - PMB and Nghe An determine and ensure that
foubdations,      associated with             - Cash compensation for the lost area if the compensation will be at replacement cost at the
substation    and land                        remaining plot is still economically viable.  time of payment.
access roads etc.  permanently                 - Cash  compensation  for the whole    - Replacement land, and resettlement sites
towersimpacted nyCashcompensationforthe                      hote    development.
towers                       impacted plot if the remaining plot is not    r         c
foundations,                                                          PAPs receivig compensation will demohsh the
substation and               economically viable.                    impacted areas and reconstruct/or improve their
Electric Power Consiulting and Developmient Center (ECD)                                                                    4



No     Type of loss    Application    Definition of          Compensation Policy                       Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
access  roads                 economically viable.                    houses themselves.
etc.                             Cs    cmesto        fo   prpris      - Full com-pensation for trees and fruit trees to
116 HHs                      - Cash   compensation  for  properties  PAPs at least 01 month before land clearance. If
associated with land                    PAP is requested for cutting affected trees, PMB
will pay money for this work. PAP has right for
b. Landl loss equal or more than 25%  of using salvageable trees.
their total landhioldings:           - Full compensation for impacted house and
PAP can opt for the followings:      allowances to PAPs at least 05 months before land
i)"Land for land" with the same area and  clearance.
- No award civil work contract before completion
productive of impacted area if   the    of compensation and reorganizing houses or
remaining plots are still economic viable  relocation.
and for the whole impacted plots if the  - Payment to PAPs will be delivered by PMB and
RCs
remaining plots are not economic viable.  - Finance/ land  available for compensation/
ii) Cash for land at the replacement cost.  rehabilitation  and  well information  disclose/
- Compensation for trees and affected fruit - PMB consult with PAP who are eligible to
trees at the replacement cost.         rehabilitation for their options and prepare proposal
- Rehabilitation assistance.           for rehabilitation programs in the period of RAP
For PAP losing Residential and garden implementation.
land:                                   - PAPs will be granted with Land Use Right
- If remaining  land  is sufficient for Certificate
reorganizing (more than 60 m2 in the urban  Without payment of administrative fees.
area and 100 m2 in the rural area): Cash
compensation for lost area and assets
associated with land.
- If remaining land is not sufficient for
reorganizing:
PAP can opt for i) cash compensation at
replacement cost for land and assets on land,
or ii) "land for land" compensation for the
whole residential area which PAP occupied
(not only for the impacted   areas) and
Electric Powier Conisuhtintg and Development Center- (ECD)                                                                  5



No     Type of loss    Application    Definition of          Compensation Policy                       Implementation Issues
entitled PAPs
properties associated with occupied land. For
affected house and building, the same
entitlement to PAP of categories 3 or 4 or 5.
7   PAP impacted on All        PAPs -do-            (a) Temporary impact on business or other - Full compensation for incomes lost to PAPs at
business or other impacted   on                 services.                               least 01 month before land clearance.
services          business  and                 Compensation for income lost in the affected  - PMB consult with PAP who are eligible to
other services                time                                    rehabilitation  for their options and prepare
(b) Permanent impact on business or other proposal for rehabilitation programs in the period
services.                               of RAP implementation.
Rehabilitation assistance.
8   Impact   on  road,                              Compensation to PAP at replacement cost  PCI and Nghe An PC
drainage  due  to
material
transportation
Electiric Power Consutlting canid Developmene Center (ECD)                                                                  6



T& D1 - Cretit No 3034+
llOkV Dai An substation and 110kV TIL
ANNEX 9
Entitlements of DPs
Compensation Land                                        Den bu cay c6i, hoa mau
z               Permanent Compeiisati~~~on Landafor lLn
d                           Permanent                        Compensation Land in ROW             Trees                       Crops
u    Name of Head of HHs             construction            Crotal
Quantity Unit Price  Entitlemelit  Quantit Unit Price  Entitlement  Quantit Unit Price Entitleme Quantity  Unit  Entitlement
Sq meters Sq meters  in VND       -SC]  Sq meters   in VND     mq    1Sq meters in VND  Sq meters Sq meters  in VND
_______ _______ _______ __   ___ ____   __ _______ ____ n  ete rs      m ete rs _ _ _ _ __                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Cam Giang District
I Dai An Industrial Zone          500.000             -    8.320  35.000   291.182.500         22.000             4.208   5.000     21.040.000     312.222.500
Lien Hong Argricultural
2 Co-operative               143   500.00()    71.500.000  2.072   50.000  103.600.000          22.000     -      4.107    5.000    20.535.000     195.635.000
3 Nguyen Van Tuyen            25  500.000      12.500.000    -     50.000          -           22.000      -        -      5.000           -        12.500.000
4 Nguyen Van Hoi              20   500.000     10.0(0.000    34    50.000     1.700.000         22.000     -         34    5.000       170.000      11.870.000
S Nguyen Van Binh             20  500.000      10.((0.(00    44    50.000    2.200.000         22.000      -         44    5.000       220.000      12.420.000
6 Nguyen Van Thinh            30   500.000     15.000.000    -     50.000          -            22.000     -        -      5.000           -        15.000.000
Gia Loc District
Institute of Gia Loc Food
I Products                  200   500.000     100.000.000  2.423  50.000   121.150.000         22.000      -      6.580   5.000     32.900.000     254.050.000
2 Pham Van Ngo                79  500.00()     39.500.000    -     50.000          -           22.000      -        -      5.000           -        39.500.000
3 Nguyen Van Tho                  500.000()                  34   50.000     1.700.000         22.000                34    5.000       170.000       1.X70.000
4 Bui The Thenh                    500.000                   50    50.000    2.500.000    -     22.000     -         50    5.000       250.000       2.750.000
5 Nguyen Van Binh                 500.000     .       -      -     50.000          -      -    22.000      -        -      5.000           -              -
I   TTOTAL                      517 |            258.500.000  12977            524.032.500                            15057              75 .285.000   857.817.500



CdNG TT Co PHAN DAI AN    CONG HOA\ XA; HOI CHU' NGHI,A VIET NANT
Doc lap - Tr do - Hanh phuc
Ha Noi, ngay 04 thang 8 nam 2004
S6: S..../CV/DA-2004
"V,v thod thudn vi tri tram
vd h z&ng tuyen Dz I I OkV Dai An*'
Kinh gfri:  - Uy ban nhan dain tinh Hii Ducng
- Ban Qu'an ly cac KCiN tinh I-I;ii Duang
- Trung tim Tu v-an & Phat trien Dien
De c6 cca sa lip Bao cao nghien cruu khA thi, RAP & EIA Dur an TBA - I lOkV
Dai An. NJgAy 04/6/2004 tal Khu Cong nghiep Dai An co cudc hop do S& Cdng nghiep
tinh Hai Duang chu tri - Cong ty Co phAn Dai An --Trung tam Tu van & Phat trien DiCn
Sau khi nghe Trung tam Tu van & Phat trien Dien trL'h bay, cac ben da tho'ng nhat vi t-ri
dat tram va hu&na tuye'n Dz 110kV vao tram nhu sau:
' Vi tri dat tram
- LO datt c6 k hieu: N 18
- Dien tich da't chie'm: 6.337m2
- Dien tfch du&ng vao tram (rong 4,5m): 453m'
-  Doan mrncng cap ngam. tu trarn de'n duang day 35/22kV hien huu cua KCG- Dai
An dai 675 x 0,9 = 607,5m2.
De kip hoan thanh lDr an theo duing tie'n do cuac giao cho Trung tam Tvan &
Phat trien Dien, Cong ty Co phAn Dai An kfnh de nghi UBAD tinh Hai Duang ra van ban
chap thuan vi tri tram 1 10kV Dai An nhu cac ben da th6ng nht de Trung tam TuI van &
Phat trien Dien c6 ca sa tie'n hanh cac buac tie'p t.heo.
Rat mong duoc su quan tarn giup da cua UBN'D tni-h HaL Duaong, Ban Quan lv
cac KCG tinh HaL Ducrng.
Cnung toi xin chan thanh cam an.
Noi nhdn:                            ,..  N        -  PH A.N ODAI AN.
-  ,Jh Lkint gti
-  BQLDA KCG   Di ,An;
iT,ONG,, G:',',I DOC
TRULT1G ThJ PHUNGNI



CO NG HOA XA HOI CHU NGHIA VIET NAM
DOc lap - Tu do - Hanh phuc
Hdi Daoung, ngay 1 thding q ndm 2004
BIEN BAN
B,kO CriO KET QUAi KHAO SAT TUYEN DA.Y 110 KV
V,k TRAMNI BIEN AiP 110 KV KHU CONG NGHIEP DAI AN
Cong trinh: Du&ng dAy 110 KV va tram bien ap 110 KV Khu cong nghidp Dai An.
Thanh phan doan khio sat bao gom: 
4/Ong(BM): 1Lavl .. 'fWJ.  ...
5/On2(Bal):. ,A ......h. T4 4         S     S Ca.      Q
67/On.(B.i):.
7/dnst B. ): ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   TZ   iai5...om..S.,  Z... *2:.  .& ......
T ^lga) W      10/6ng(Ka):           L2......'2.
*/,4ey 1 l/Ong(Ba).                        v ) 
13/Oncr(B' ):. 
13/On ~ Ba) ..........................................................................................................
7- Thvi gian khao sat:
Bat duiu tir )T cib - ngayv 1  thSn, 8  n.im 2004
Kzt thuc )l uig c-V nayv /{ thdng q  namn 2004'
Tai: _.  .    .
8- Sau khi xez s6Y ho6 sa, tai lieu va} khao sat thuc dia trSn tuven cua cong
tr'inh: 25,g./,,0U.. ../         .2s 2     t.f      s.     ..Hi don 
khUo sit co v kiln nhux sau:
Ve vi tri xuat tuven va dia diem dat tram.P.)K.
L-r ...t5v!...!*+: i.AUQ.1 )ll..X..S&'.;..C3.Q @.1S Ilo1l I>9) )tZ  S0l94
t  m8 >-XA  i 24P t/ Wa 09  022 ra CLP..,ta..t>. 
1RSRQ -{At34  p ye(if,
.r.a.V.)Q    .47.tc  S      'W       ;t.t       i.S    .PQW.



. '... ,i.'.i.g.V.ALo..qW../.i..t.tl I                 P..a....i.....        4......        2
D-. d  iD.S      ...d.....              .......:..           ......................................i.
..............I...........................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................................................................................
Dai di  ln:         va p   x.                       Dai di 
D aXiS di n                                        D a    dijn                              ................... 
C~~~     ~~ (I                                             / i/
Dai di.n:                  .                          al   i.       ... ...... ;
.   .   -    -   .           -
DOa i dien:     2     1                                            2Dai di en:
_   X.f--  -                            , />~~~~~~ta



LY IN N IHAN D.N         c())(; HOA X.-\ FO1 I c1L  (;1 HIA I A% 1x  I NAI
T1 IN F FIA  1 )LC0.NG(           )()C L.ip- Ttr do- 1-mih plt'ic
S5O ICCV-l IBND              J-il Dmm'i  . Dirg&y/g r 'l(  / () 1W/il 2004
T 77I,o   th i i  i ( i'IX   t /ti ii  f  clI c  Ii () A'  flu)  Wi/'f
.  ,vi t, i Tr,m  bi'ij tio  I / 1() K' Klitc,,   n, g h 'hit;/) Dat An'
.  .  .t  ., \ -  N  \'-f  
\T T: R.;-' r.")i:  N  iI tiri  - C3izg ty Dizeiz Lic I
- Tui-im, tdii Tir (vd1z vc I)li7t tPL/'e1 Diull
0-61 l khi xenml xat dl nahi cua S6 Cong nghilp tai t6 tt-inh so 3601TTr - CN
-       nI lv S/10/2004 cunmz Bicn bin bOo cao k-et qu.i k}hao sat tuve'n clduxn dav 11 0 KV
va Tr-am bi;'n ap 110 lKV Kli cong nghip L)i D An ng7v 16/9,'2004; ILfBLND tinh
Hai DLtron  co  kIiThn nhut saL
1- Thon_ nh'it phtro'ng On tuv&n DLtrn- dAv 110 l %1' theo bKin v~ ECD-TR-
04 91.DNO$.02 do Tr-unm Vm Tir n .in v/i Phit tricn Dien 1ap thOing 5/2004. CU the nhci
-    L huoln  i tv Ovn  1t 0 KV ra - v io tcam: GiQ'm 02 10 tao th/irnh mach vc / n2:
Lc 1 D Li 2.S kIm. CtLoc Iv Cdl 2it Cr moc G dtrdne dAIy 10 lO  V FLu 1 Diromn
- Ph,, \LiCU;I Tramlul 220 1KV Ha'i DUO[11g. Di-m CLI K pooctI ch tram 11 iD  V D
Lt') 2: DW'i 0.S 1Km;. (tLroc l`v clidn LCr khollnc- tZiU'a moic G, - G !( (if i' ? -
_ _, cini'll<T  v> I 10 1KV HOi Doong - Pho' Cao c!a Tliaim 220( 1K  H.ii Drone. vi-n
I'co: ooo 0     tra m 1 0 1Kv' D ai An.
To "in tvcan dav cti tli-n ruonLm 1ua. k-hO^nE cti olia nh/i cthn_
- Di a d In m dCt;-t tr-am bien Op 1 10 1KV; DLil An: Thtu/.c x./i Tu NMinh. thanh ph,,
i-t/i D lon T: dlion [tCh kho.;n e 0 1 hat. vi trf (Irihi b-iM ' J ECD-TR-()0- - ..ND. / 02/-1/
2- IB7KD tinhil  u cVoCo tron I iai cloain trier !T.hai th''t kd'. thi co^?!1g caIn
hinr, cdiUniz theo cac th6a thu/Ln c1d ctzit tLro'c voi cac co qjuan chdc narngt dCL phLronw.
-   zI nTh ,m neat cac qjuv dinh, cuv pham ve hnh Liane tov&i cttr6ne d/v.
L B?KD tnh ziao: Cic s&: COneJ n2hi,c. T,.i nguux, ni v l.Ii t[irdne. Xn'.
!., . U B'ND tbhinh rhO H/iI Durongz. Ban Q Lin K c/cz ';hu c/n:- nehi/p tinh c( trOTh
nhiK   pho'i hc. p vLi tao ctieu kien thui/n loi cho C.C CO CIl1ar, chLc n.ne ct./ia Tore,
con.   q- Dx. 3iwn .,bIC Vic t V Cam tie'n h/nih c/c thLt too can thie'D cl c-ne trunh cmoron
T.F   L\ IY BA.  N F.-\ N D.  f TN FL
-7- -; -'a'i;!.'' t4 .io cA.i)..
. (.1 ;     , <,. ;;;-3                           T CH L' T r C I
- N 'i:'r '' "''                        '> -^' PrIO7Cl-L' f'I
D  .[ [) i L . h  !i .             .  .  .-    -
~~~~I-                      1.':\ '\ L2-l,' _..
FiO:lIL'' Biubl



'AH XA HQI CHLT NGHfI       VlT NAMA
xi, C lop - T-l do - H                 nh phic
/S   /~ .. -                                 .
,~ HIz.-I                                   ----00---        D   ,o nft 9v  r :?e&s ;. r  20G 
BIt N BAN CUQ C HQP
Cu4c hop bct 4: 1 c    ,       ...                      20057
I. ThInh phAn thazn ds       .e 
1. .. ._.i.1>'2._../ '4.>L%..4._._ . -   dien caa UBND xi
2.          .777fl. 'T4 C%.2pun, tim TLr *n ,& Phia tTin Diin
3                                    _.r -  )-. _..t;o i d iL  ., ..... .... . ... ..... ._.......
4. ..e. didni c,a clc h6 bi ini hLrusng bdi d < in
5.                                   D; i  ..  -- 31i 64i6n cCi3 cic r bi 3=nh htr.ng bd' .v in
6. ........                                                       .. . ..... .......  .-.
| N oi dung curZc hop:
1. Phc bien noi du;nig cCa du' Ln Tra.m bien a. I 1,/35/22!cV Dai An a d:dng d.v I l 9kV v 0
Lram
2. Ph1 o' b i en c h.n, ! _c. h AC- r; G '3i t o  v a d,, dn L i 'p Ih c , ci n I si cl bo -a  _i~ Y9c.
c a Chin;^ ph's.
3. Lay j ki  cua :ic ha oi ani,   bInng  duis  r r
1.Yken cula cc ho d&r 5i 5.nh h  gro
;               H  ~~~~ ^ -      /  ' s  
.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.        .. ... . .X. ,..... X..W r <
h                       - V7\.............                                     ,
............        -4     X-v       .   t/    Z          ......    -I.: .
...... ; 4 ..... .                          - .   * -o   * -j  * e ..........................  S   S 9  |   ,  R -.  .
u  +   b     J ga~~ 'tG, i.~ . . 2,  , -C. , a.  ,   t,
.....~~v               \AA............................... 



......................... ........ ........  . ...............- . ... ..-.... .
.......................-                        . .
C U~5c Ah,p At thc !L.~c .../?. giY ~ y/;J'            .....T  20')...
t3-N D  5.,                                        Citn t~6 fleu tra
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
(cic h    :



CONG HOk XA HOI CHU NGHIA VIET NA.NI
D6c Ip - TLr do - Hanh phuc
Hai Da(cng, ngMv 08 tlhadng 7 nam 2005
BIEN BAN HOP THONG NHAT THOA THUAN TUYEN DUONG
DA-\Y - 110 KKV XAY DUNG          OI 4 MIACH DI TRONG DA-ST CU.A
KHU CONG NGHIEP DAI AN
C6n2 trinh: DLr&ng dav 110 KY n6i vao tram bien ap - 110 KN
Khu Cong nghip Dai An - Hai Duxna.
Thanh phan hop:
L.CONG TY TNHH - 1 TH.kNH VIEN (NITV) - DIEN LlrC H.iI DUONG
Dai dien: Ong Pham Tu,an Ng-oc      Chuic vu: Ph6 Giam doc
Dai dien: Ong Le Quang Hier-'       ChCrc vu: Trua&n ph6nq k-; thuft
Dai dien: On,, Nauven Xu.n Tai      Chic vu: Trnrng phbny Qu.in 1 .xv dLrn2
2.(-:'o,N(; TY CO PHAN DAI .AN
Lii dien: B.i TrLrang Tui PhLrcrng  ChCrc viu: Ton2 Giam doc
Dai dien: On2 iNcb Tan Phons        Churc vu: Phu trach ki [huat
3.-R`NG( TAM TUV.ASN VA PH.AT TRIEN DIEN - HOI DIEN LUC V IET NA.M
Dali dien: Ong Duana Tu.a^n Minh    Churc vu: Tra 1 Giam doc
Chu nhie-n D:u in cbn2 trinh
Ta.i Khu Con2 nrhiep Dai An vao hoi 14h 3C' ngSv OS/7/"9nO) On2 Diian- Tudin
Mlinh Chu nhiem Dui an- Dai dien cho dan v,I tLr van da irinh biv vxe nhiem Vu. MLuc dich \Li
svr c.ln thie-t ph.ii xav duno TBA - 110 1KV Dai An va DZ -I10 IKV diu noi Kiao tram de Cufn2
clip n-L1on dicn Quo"c aia cho phu taii Khu Cbng nghip Dat An (Gial doan Ia v7iai d0al  ' in2
.i c.c phu rSii khic cua rhhIinh ph(- H.il Durang.
Qu\i dinh cu'a Bo COng Nghiep ve phe duvxc cu% hoach phaii trikn Dien ILrc nrIh
1 Lti Duenc mli deao.n 2005 - 2'010c6xe Xd&rn 2 015.
nFrong do co phe duv.t: Quv mo tikn do xav i d-ng COn- trnh nam 2<05 ( a yiili
,oan I x1i% dung m6i TBA - 110itKV /3, 20 Di An I NA - 6 3 NVA 'Sdoean DZ - I I
KV c..lp dien cho tram Dai An ( XLlv dung.z DZ - 110 KV ' maci c(5 uiOY dn '20 mim- dJi
k-hoainc 6.5 m trurcc mit lay dien tur du&rng ddv 110 KV hien h u D nm NiOn - Ph- Cae
trong Uliodnm co.t 27-29) rnudc mat keo d.lv 02 mnach.
+ Dona thai iaiti quvet th6 tuc ve thoi thuan tuven du&ng dciv 110KV con ton tai
theo ke;t luIin raLi cuoc hop ngiiv 16/6/2005 do S& Cong ngh4ipTinh HEi DuLrng chu tri.



+ Trong cucc hop ngay 0/i7/2005 cdc dai dicn da trao doi. thao luan. v/t thdng nhaV nhu.r
,I U: t
a. Dia diem ( vi tri): Xav dLrng tram 110 KV Dai An la kh6nr thav doi da duiac UBNND
Tinh va C6ng ty Co phan Dai An ra van b5n thoa thuan.
b. Doan tuve'n DZ - 110 KV di trong dat Khu Cong nghiep 3Dai An duiac xSc dinh C eiai
doan I ( nam 2005) Cu the nhu sau:
Tu cot thanh cai 110 KV ( dan pooc tich) cua tram de'n G0 dai 55 m ( w0i la cot d;iL
dLrdn2 dav DD ) , trr GI de'n G2 dai 127m tu G2 tuve'n di song son2 x61 tuve'n dLugo 'na 
|   Yan diLu c/ta Tinh H/ii Dj.crna ( bean ngoai gitii phan cich an to,-n ctia tuv&n ong x;v n;imni
th|co cluv dinh cua chi nh/inh xang d.iu Hai Duang) den G3 dai 556m. G3 n.-im troncg giii
ph,'in cSich cot g6c G3 re trai 1 26c 90" ( vubn_g gc v6a truc du&nR tL[r cong so" I ce'n ba song
S.tt J[r G3 de'n G4 dai 1337 m vci doan nav nam trong gia/i phan cach cuta truc d_r&ng nbi bo
Khu Cong nghi4p Dai An, G4 nam tren ba de Song Sat. c-ach ba song kho5ing 60 m vuorar qua
S|on2 S/i de'nG G5 G5 cdich ba sona khodna 60m. Tu 04 - G5 dati 317m  C6 b/tn ve mai
b/tng ruve'n DZ - 110KV a giai doan I (nam 2005) di tron- dta' Khu Congz Nghip Dai An
DZ   I10 KV-DD-01.
3Bien b.in dai dLrac doc lai de c.ic ben thong qua v/a th'ng nha't c/tna kv' tan.
JK,UNO g ' Cf PHA.N D)AI AN   CONG T   TNHH - NITV        TRUN G T.A' Tl V A\
tj  -i t; 8 , z w 2 s? \ \  <zx Q  DIEN L L-C H.i I D V'ON G  V.-\ PHATTR IEN D I E I
DA I t 
.. ,/\ .7:Sw                          ,
77   '                             4,,             )
p Tm'   l TLA  >GOC



UY BAN NHAN DAN         CONG 1OA , XA HOI CHU NGHIA VIltT NAiMl
TIiNH H.Al DU)ONG              DOc Ilp- Tir do- Hanh phuc
Sc- !;F/IUBND - VP         Ha'i Dtaong,ingayI2tlthig 8 ndm2005
-'      "V/v Thoa thuan tuye'n duang day 110 KV
cap dien-eho Tfam bihn ap 110 KV Dai An"
H ')t  ,,1   '  *.,  8 ......  ~~~~.--':  t -
JN(;-' T    :'i'_      !,nh gci:  - Trung tam Tur van va Phat trien dien
64, 9-                            - Cong ty TNHH iTV Dien 1uc Hai Durang
Ru   xem xt de nahi ciua Trung tam Tu van va Phat trien dien - Hdi
dien Iurc Viet Nam tai Cdng van s0' 293/HDL-ECD-P2 ng5y 26/7/2005 V/v Thoa
thuan tuyen dubng day 110 KV da'u noi vao tr,am 110 KV Dai An va de nghi cua
S& COncg nghiep tai Tb trinh so' 265 TT/CN-DN ngay 06/8/2005.
UBND tinh H'ai Duang c6 y kie'n nhu sau:
1. Ve vi trf Tram bie'n ap 110 KV Dai An: Giur nguyen vi tri Tram bie'n ap
d| dLr`oc thoa thuan tai Cbnr van sb' 920/CV-UBND, nryv 18/10/2004.
2. Vi tri va hufnc tuve'n dudnc day 110 KV ca'p dien cho Tram bie'n ap
110 KV Khu cOnc nahiep Dai An:
- Quy mb: Xay dung m6ci dubng day 110 KV 4 mach, tru&c mat keo day 2
mach tur Tram bien 4p 110 KV Dai An de'n diem cu6i dau noi vao dubnr day 110
KV tu Tram bie'n p 110 KV Hai Duang (ES.1) di Pho Cao.
- Hu.6ng tuye'n 110 KV vao tram: Ca ban tho n 2 nhlat v6i phLran- an tuye'n
theo ban ve "'Nat bang tuye'n dubnog day 110 KV" so': ECD-TR-04-24-
DN.DD.01, do Trunia tam Tu van va phat trien dien - Hoi dien 1uc Viet Nam Iap
thdng 7/2005. Cu the:
Tir d.in Pooctic 110 KV Tram Ddi An, tuve'n de'n diem G1 roi be Q6c 90'
de'n G2' tur G2 tuve'n di song sonZ v6i hanh lang dLr6n o'nsn d^Ln xanc dTiu de'n
G3; tu G3 tuve'n be g6c di gi a ddil phan cach dudtnrg quy hoach trong Khu con-
nghiep Dai An de'n G4 (gic' Scng SCt) roi *rot song sang G0' 0 G5 roi de'n diem
CLuOi tuvdn (CD) dalu vao khoang giuLa cot 27 - 2S dLving dac!.y 110 KV ` tLr tIam
bie'n 4p 110 KV Hii Duang di Pho' Cao (cloan tai G., G'. G5, DC yain cli lzheo
t[t". -Il CId tavc tlioci triiLcl2n [l` Cn,g vdin sj'915/CV`-U B.  20, 2 0910/2003 ve i i'c
r/,odC tl  iJngS11 1llRrl y9 tll r, I UOo t1lm b/iil Op 220 KX Hiz Daong).
3. L'BND tinh veu ciu:
- C.c i I trif co va h/inh lang tuvyn dLrCn2 d.;is di giJra c'iil ph.in c.ICh trong
Khhu cong nghi4p D3ai An, sdt de hoac vuLt sOng. vLoat dLng ph.ii tuuan thLi cui
dinh bao ve hanh lang giao thona, Phap lenh de di'u va phu hap v6i Nghi dinh
so' 4/CP cua Chinh phu ve bLio ve an toan hanh lang ILur dien cao  .
- C;c vi trf tuve'n day di giao cheo do'i v6i cac dLru&ng dien cao, ha 4p d,
c6 phii WLan thui nghiem n2at cLui pham hien h.inh.
'  I   I    I     I           I     I     I ~~~~~~~~~~1~



UBND tinh giao cac s& Cong nghiep, Xay dung, Tai nguyen va MNIoi
trudng, N6ng nghiep va PTNT, Ban quan 1y cac Khu cbna nghi4p tinh, UBND
thanh ph" Hai Duong, UBND cac huyen Cam Giana, Gia Loc pho-i hop va tao
dieu kien thuan lcai cho Cong, ty TNHH MTV DiTn luc Hai Du'ng ti'n hanh cac
thu tuc can thiet de cong trinh s6m duac khai cong va hoan thAnh cftra vao sir
dung./.
TIM UY BAN NHAN D.AN TINH
Ndo nl.dn:
- Nhu cr6n;                                   KIT CHU TICH
- Thutrng tr,uc Tinh uv (de b/c );HU TIH
- Chu tich va cac Pho Chu tich UBND tinh; .
- Cac s&: Cong nghiep, Tai ncuyen va Moi  - ,      \.)
tru&ng, Xay dir,ng, Nong nghiep va PTNT;
- UBN'D thanh pho' Hi DDLrang; i
- UBND cac huyen Cam Giang, Gia Loc;          -
- Lanh clao Van phong;                    -
- Ban quan 1y cac Khu cong nghip tinh;
- Khu Cong nghiep Dai An;                       HoAna Binh
- Luu VP. MvIr Dong.;
.



MAT BAN6 TUYN iltf6 DAY 35 KV vA 22                               R 
GIAI 0OM 11 1 5                                            &
XUAT TUJYgN TffTRAM B ""A? I I OKV DAI AN DI TRONCG KHU CON,                 / ,2
~~~~---_- >\_-                        Ti'   Ht "   QL 5 
--                ~~~~~~~~MACH KEPHICN HWI  \X
z  ||',| CA]TAO DUdNG DAY 22KV% u
DOAN{ UtNG DAY 22KCv            >          ' MACHDN THANH DU(NG DAY - \ 
XAY DUNG WM 501 TRONG KCN'                & I \  KV MACH KEP TU A DgN 8 
xAY DUN  MDANUNG:Y2VHENU DAYtX 
- THON NHAT T'AN  -g                                         \ 
-  TUdNG RAO KCN HICN HdU  XDA  ANGMW                      \
F~~~~~~O Dt1\N 9DUfAY 22KV HICN HCURJX 
XAXY DLtNG N1 DlTOC C / Y DUN C-M                         'DO,4tNl. '
DOAN~~~ ~ ~ CA NGA 22K                      -A r b> NGAM 22KV SO 2     /     ,=   -
MACII Kt-P XKY DOtNG mdi SO 3 vA 4/     ,,-\                                       !0 |r 
j g / :; \ \ t s~~~~~~~~~~n 2\ = 
|                                                                2ANH  S  b  auY  HOACH KCN r pf j}  t) :0 l l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3
___==--------=---t====4==-A1\1X- gxr-2rA 4 tSlaj! ..... I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 hj
I  I  =  =                        ___ __         |  I                 A ;          X   lt  \    I 
r fS                   _                        X 0; A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l                                                                                               }y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



I
I
i
i
I
I
i
I
t
I
i.                                   I:



E  -           -  -  -  - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  -n    A   
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 4 i n   a;  '  1  _J
,'-'',''"',4".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                        :                                                                     I~
_.:,>.-.!t H_0\, f_ =oC< j3 ^1 'e' -/-!S ....................................................... 
ty- -S'-; ; '''- '';qUClllll Ut 
gT~~~~~~~~~~c     rii  ' ona-A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;3n1. I 
: _ 4 _ . _ i b J :}-| X - < ii Dcan z o kd iton g  KC aiA1(llu a  264mi
_E~~~~~~7                    KA-Le  iOl  -  _ -t 6,i ,,' F -1 ; g ionD-IIkriqU  dgTsqax  iinHn  alhn  ha  uincaLc(mudn  h  1)
n - -   -<<   >   |   :n<8N\  '   s  '  rh:   Cjili  /   ;,ZA..................................................L  i  
oi------7W~ 4                                     III 
70                                       ~    ~      X >        DINLLCiiClUK    D   A;A       N   V   A  E)DI        OkVDAUNOI~~~G7 
;                           ''"-7'-                                ' ':l  'tnpd     DT'CT                       A      UEND-         k 
_LS.'__',On.s-  O6#  ;p '-< U-'\n' ,. aGXY 7; T L/.A.  G  7/w 
X. ~~~ 3 1 ;  Jv * w; 33-- ~~~~~~~~~~ KfemtrJ~~ .?   DuniunM ihT ||EDR-42-N).O 



I



2z II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-.~ ~~~7r
%g,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1 IYY,
\\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4"



i
I
A
i
i
I  I
i
i
i
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



I rl                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                             Kfl--:c
| | = - =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SN                                            D U      AN} |3
}<NGiC N
ftW6, 1j1c
Gic/j lOgu c_c                                                DAu Y .Li  -  L                 1 :2 -
l)I--c Cii  X_ _
D AT  C~~~ y  XA~~ T~~i  &  IiAN~~~ if t~~~ A~ C  OIN~~~ CCDNA1 yAU   P17,        DA



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I 



THON NHAITTAN -XATULMINH
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                                   0
0   40       120       220
KCN EDAl AN              20     s0        180
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                        \1id\t Unq cdp rg6m goi\ j7 n
IC~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HCU
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rg7-g 0o c
0~~~~~~~~ ~~~-"lin tfc trm xin d -&( k'~ c6 tdcuy)  694Cm2
D~n tfh ram t-rong hdng rdo  6272 M2
: ___ X 0                                                         ;                   A           WS                                       ,'V\o~~~~~~~~IA 
IA\\                                                                                        D i:\  \\\   \ \ \  \  \\\n\  tic ", ,   m\  I d u c g x in   dd t (   Ki   c j  Tca uy)   9 W9 .5m
'tt,   \\\  \\\   \  '           \\\      \            \ ' \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-,~i r dtB3r 1 ij3W/22k\/ Dc~ An tcH ,dcd
A                                                 ''\  'E'\\, c^\ Ctj X\ f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-; li`(t  Ed  A'i 'd  'n 1~n hd6t
XN.~8 2 5a)n~m trcrg racnhcid~ J 
I\Dd An, v; La d ch - TI Mf1h P. H& DUng.
| z \                                                                  -      -     \ \ DddUccG .D C;y c^ ^ph6 |Dc An vd JBND
lk                                                                 t1r. th HA-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in  a ): -uina  Inoa' rhudn.
H'ANG -AO TRA%l
aoo XI'  1000 |I     =      &              -                                @  ir'CT.i A:      .                    T -H HAI DWING
D,N  'LLC Gjj,,,A,ej,  | L ~N G H 6i u   PhiT |  DK
TALUY  NL- N  TRAM                     n    D uting gidi  ncn Ud6  cuia             1 DA D-         Tn 3"~  _ _  /    MA;t,T  BA NG C  ll TRI TRAM   I 1 0`3 522'V
NAAtiT QT 1i                                  KrN Edc An-GD] E)rQ :;'CIh;,TUr .,_I_____-W.-.r- _ J
N/1 -T  T _ .L _ _ _ _ __ _ 1 -1~                                                           V~- ; - , ~ -X; ; - ! L p R - 8: - ) - t i C:



i
Ii
i
I
i
I
i
I
I
I
I



q,
,I
wa
I
*
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



A
A



