Documof
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
C /Z. ,/ q/-kkc
Respt No. P-3262-M&G
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIGN
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 40.2 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 28, 1984
This docmen ba a resricted distrilatsad may be used by recipius emy in the peIformance of
thdr oficd dutesL Its cnteomt  my om  utewwse be dised wihout Wodi BDk atdmatim.



DI(OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF     ASCAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
1 US$ = FfG             1 FMG  US$
1983                      430.45                   0.0023
1984 (Dec.)               621.88                   0.0016
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCRM      Central Bank of Madagascar
BFV       National Bank for Trade
BNI       National Bank for Industry
BTM       National Bank for Agriculture
MIEM      Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NADAGAkSCAR
LWUSTRI  AS:SISTANCE PROJECr
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIEARY
Bcrrower:               Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:          Priority enterprises in the industrial sector, the
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining. and the
National Bank for Industry (BNI).
Amount:                 SDR 40.2 million (US$40.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description:    Objectives
The purpose of this credit is to support important
policy reforms designed to increase the efficiency
and productivity of the industrial sector and to
increase the capacity utilization of selected
efficient industrial enterprises so as to enable
them to produce incentive goods for the domestic
market and to produce products for export.
Components
(a) Financing imports of spare parts and raw
materials for selected efficient, private and
public industrial enterprises. The funds
(US$33.5 million equivalent) would be sold to
approved industrial enterprises through the
existing commercial bank network. The banks
would receive a commission of 0.5 percent of
the amount of the transactions.
(b) Financing equipment for the rehabilitation of
a selected group of enterprises; and
(c) Technical assistance to the Ministry of
Industry. Energy and Mining.
Tis document bas a icted dis6rlaon and may be used by cpients only 11 the performa  of
their ofdicial dutis Its contents may not otberwe be dislsd without Wod Bak authorizau



- ii -
Relefding Terms:        For the rehabilitation component (US$5.0 million
equivalent) the Government would pass on to BNI
the funds at the rate for World Bank loans
prevailing at tim of Board approval. The loan to
BNI would have a composite amortization schedule
conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule
on BNI's subloans. Onlending to enterprises would
be at 2.0 percent per annum above the rate to BNI
for a maximum period of fifteen years.
Benefits:               Through its support of policy changes the credit is
expected to lead to increased efficiency and to an
improved allocation of resources in the industrial
sector. By relaxing the foreign exchange
constraint that prevents priority efficieat
enterprises from operating at full capacitv, the
credit is also expected to promote the production
of incentive goods and exports.
Risks:                  The main risk facing the project is that of
possible internal resistance to the timely
implementation of the policy reforms which this
Credit supports. The risk is limited by: First,
a consensus has been building within Madagascar on
the need for industrial reform and the Government
has adopted a carefully designed package of
measures which this Credit supports and which
enjoys growing acceptance within Madagascar.
Second, important parts of the policy package have
already been implemented, demonstrating
Government's commitment. Third, the industrial
import component of the credit will be disbursed in
two tranches of SDR17.2 million and SDR16.5 million
with release of each tranche linked to satisfactory
implementation of subsequent stages of the policy
package. Fourth and finally, the Credit is
expected to result in quick, tangible benefits--4n
the form of a rapid increase in industrial capacity
utilization, thus adding momentum and credibility
to the operation and its policy package.
Estimated Disbursement:                            US$ Million
FY85       FY86       FY87      FY88
Annual         5.3       27.4         6.6       0.7
Cumulative     5.3       32.7       39.3       40.0
Appraisal Report:       This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report.
IBRD 14160



CONTENrS
PART I - THE ECONOKY                                              1
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR                                   6
Sector Background and Recent Performance               6
Structure of Manufacturing                             6
The Financial Sector                                  11
Past Industrial Policies                              12
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAH IN INDUSTRY         14
The Adjustment Process                                 14
Towards a New Industrial Strategy                     I5
PART IV - TEE PROPOSED CREDrT                                    21
Credit History and Rationale                          21
Previous Bank Group Support for Industry              21
Credit Objectives                                     22
Credit Components and Timing                          22
Disbursement and Procurement                          27
Expected Impact and Risks                             28
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR                     29
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                       33
PART VII -RECOMMENDATION                                        33
ANNEX I  - Madagascar - Social Indicators Data Sheet
ANNEX II  - Status of Bank Group Operations in the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar
ANNEX III - Government Statement on Industrial Policy and Goals
ANNEX IV  - Note on the National Bank for Industry
ANNEX V   - Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
ANNEX VI  - Industrial Assistance Credit - Estimated Disbursement
Schedule



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAIION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGLA1CAR
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.               I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for
SDR 40.2 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance an industrial assistance project.   The equivalent of US$33.5
million, from the Credit for spare parts and raw materials, would be sold
to eligible industrial enterprises through the existing commercial bank
network with the banks receiving a 0.5 percent commission on these
transactions.   Covernment would on-lend US$5 million equivalent to the
National Bank for Industry (BNI), for the industrial rehabilitation
component, at the rate for World Bank loans at the time of the proposed
Credit's approval and with a composite amortization schedule conforming to
the zggregate amortization schedule of BNI's subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.          A report entitled -Current Economic Situation and Prospects'
dated October 25, 1984, was distributed on November 6, 1984 to the
Executive Directors and to participants of the Madagascar Consultative
Group Meeting, and is available as document 5154-MAG. Country data sheets
are provided in Annex I to this report.
Main Features of the Economy
3.           Madagascar, with a population of 9.4 million and a GNP per
capita of about US$300 in 1983, is among the poorest countries in the
world.   It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 15 persons per square kilometer.  Although generally well endowed
with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are considerable
regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate. The
South is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils. The
eastern region has a tropical climate and, although rich agriculturally,
crops are frequently devastated by cyclones.   Agriculture accounts for
about 35 percent of GDP; about 85 percent of the population lives in rural
areas, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings.



- 2-
Economic Developments in the 1970s
4.         During the past twenty five years, Madagascar's development has
been sluggish and erratic. For about a decade following independence in
1960, the economy grew at an average annual rate of 3 percent. Agriculture
was responsible for much of this GDP growth while manufacturing, under
increased protection, gained in relative importance.   For the period
1970-1983, however, there was, on average, virtually no growth in real
GDP. With an average population growth of about 2.8 percent per annum, per
capita real income in 1983 was about 28 percent below its 1973 level.
5.         This slow development was true for all sectors of the economy.
Agricultural output lagged conspicuously, and yields tended to stagnate or
decline; the country became increasingly dependent on imports, especially
of rice, to meet food requirements; and the volume of agricultural exports
virtually stagnated. Manufacturing output showed a modest expansion. The
sector remained heavily dependent on imported inputs, however, and operated
at low levels of capacity utilization. There was little expansion in the
country's transport network and indeed the existing transport facilities
(road and rail) were subject to increasingly serious deterioration.
6.          The poor economic performance stemmed in large measure from
inappropriate economic policies.  These policies can be summarized along
three  main  themes.    First,  the  Government  undertook  a  widespread
nationalization of economic activity. This policy was initiated following
the 1972 military coup and was intensified after 1975, when the present
Government came into power. A second but related theme was the adoption of
an interventionist attitude towards the economy. Most of the decade of the
1970s was thus marked by the vigorous pursuit of official policies which
sought to reduce foreign involvement in the economy and, through
nationalizations and various economic controls, to extend the Government's
role in economic activity. Under these political and economic conditions,
private sector initiative was discouraged. Third, the Government embarked
on a strategy which accorded high priority to the development of industry
with protective policies that neglected agriculture and, in effect,
fostered the growth of an inward-looking and sometimes uneconomic
manufacturing  sector.    The  adverse  effects  of  these  policies  were
compounded by the deterioration of the terms of trade following the world
oil price increases.
7.        Through 1977, the poor growth and development performance and the
extensive institutional changes which were being effected were nevertheless
accompanied by continued cautious policies regarding the balance of
payments, public finances and external debt. The external resource gap was
kept at low levels (about 3 percent of GDP from 1970-78), the overall
Government budget deficit fluctuated around 2.5 percent of GDP and recourse
to external borrowing was strictly limited.   Total external public debt
(outstanding and disbursed) at end 1977 was equivalent to about 13 percent
of GDP, compared to an average of about 22 percent for low income
developing countries, and the ratio of debt service payments to export
earnings at end 1977 was only about 3 percent.
The Public Investment Boom of 1978-81 and its Impact
8.        In 1978 the Government adopted a significantly different economic
policy orientation, undertaking a large expansion in public sector



-3-
investment with greatly increased reliance on external sources for its
financing.   Investment outlays increased by about 13 percent per annum
between 1978-80 and the share of investment in GDP, which had been about 14
percent since the early 1970s, rose to around 25 percent in 1979 and 1980.
The increased investment resulted in increased imports and coincided with
virtually stagnant export earnings and a further deterioration in the terms
of trade.   As a result, Madagascar's balance of payments deteriorated
sharply in 1979 and 1980 and the resource gap reached almost 17 percent of
GDP. Madagascar began to run into difficulties in meeeting its external
debt obligations in 1980 and foreign exchange shortages grew increasingly
severe through 1981 and 1982, largely as a result of the rapidly growing
burden of external debt service.
9.        With the rapid expansion in external borrowing and a hardening of
average terms, Madagascar's public external debt service obligations
increased dramatically from about US$19 million in 1978 (equivalent to
about 4 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in that year)
to about US$265 million in 1982 (equivalent to about 72 percent of exports
of goods and NFS).   In 1981 and again in 1982 Madagascar sought and
obtained a rescheduling of a part of debt service obligations due. These
reschedulings reduced payments due in 1981 and 1982 by over 50 percent so
that actual service payments on external public debt made in 1982 were
equivalent to about 35 percent of export receipts. In April 1984 a further
rescheduling was accorded by the Paris Club and reduced debt service due in
1984 from the equivalent of 80 percent of export earnings to around 38
percent .
10.       The Central Government's finances in 1978-83 clearly reflect the
investment boom and the subsequent efforts to restore equilibrium. Total
expenditures virtually doubled between 1978 and 1980 and declined slightly
in 1981 and 1982, when the inflation rate was much higher. The overall
public sector deficit swung from 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to a peak of 17
percent in 1980 and then decreased to 6 percent in 1982 and 5 percent in
1983.    The  recurrent  budget  contributed  little  to  the  swings  since
expenditures and revenues moved roughly in line.  The main cause of the
deficits was the capital budget, which more than quadrupled between 1978
and 1980 and then declined by 57 percent from 1980 to 1982, with only a
modest increase in 1983.  Although showing some growth in nominal terms,
both revenues and recurrent expenditures generally declined in real terms
after 1980. The growth of revenues has been slowed by the cut in imports
and by the low level of economic activity, despite additional tax measures
introduced in 1982 and 1983.
11.       The investment boom and the ensuing stabilization policies are
also reflected in the money and credit figures as well as in the rate of
inflation for the years  1978-83.   Net domestic credit expansion, due
overwhelmingly to net Government borrowing from the Central Bank, stood at
58 percent of total net domestic credit at end 1982, as compared to 31
percent at end-1978. The official cost of living index for Antananarivo,
Madagascar's capital and largest city, which is likely to understate the
actual price rises, showed an 18 percent increase in 1980, about 31 percent
in 1981 and 1982, and an estimated 20 percent increase in 1983.   The
implicit GDP deflator shows a parallel development: a 15 percent increase
in 1980, a 25 percent increase in 1981, a 34 percent increase in 1982, and
a 22 percent increase in 1983.



-4-
12.       The balance of payments has also been affected by the investment
spending of 1978-80, but the sluggishness of exports and the difficulties
in reducing imports have made restoration of external equilibrium
especially difficult.  The current account deficit began to rise rapidly
from less than 2 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent in 1980.
Transactions with the rest of the world were financed by a total exhaustion
of reserves, an unprecedented degree of foreign borrowing, and by incurring
substantial arrears on external payments obligations. The Government began
to take somr measures to restore equilibrium in 1981 and took stronger
actions in 1982 and 1983, notably by tightly restricting imports and by
negotiating arrangements with the DMF and the Paris Club.  The current
account deficit was reduced in each of the years 1981, 1982 and 1983, and
in 1982 it was about 10 percent of GDP compared to 18 percent in 1980.
13.          One factor which impeded further improvement in the current
account was that capital goods imports, which were tied to the existing
financing arrangements and on-going projects, continued at very high levels
through 1981 and 1982. The total volume of imports grew by 33 percent in
this period, and import price increases were also substantial, increasing
at roughly the same rate.  The foreign exchange shortages that began in
1980 and grew much worse in 1981-82 obliged the Government to restrict
imports where it could. The categories of raw materials and spare parts
and of non-food consumer goods suffered most, though the Government ensured
that energy imports  covered essential  needs.   Food  imports  increased
because of bad weather, including serious floods, that reduced the rice
..arvests. The sluggish export performance aggravated difficulties. During
1978-1983 the volume of exports stagnated.  Coffee, the main export, was
seriously affected by the international market situation, first by a drop
in prices in 1981 and then by the ICO quota restrictions.
Recent Developments
14.        Since 1979 the drop in industrial production, including mining.
has been especially sharp.   Production at end 1982 had dropped to 70
percent of the level in 1979, lower Laan in any year of the 1970s. Output
in every  branch of  production was  lower  in  1982  than  in  1979.   A
particularly serious aspect was that the output of some basic consumption
items (soap, shoes, matches, batteries) had dropped by well over one half
since 1979.   Preliminary figures for 1983 indicate a modest pick-up of
about 1.5 percent in manufacturing output.
15.        The performance of the agricultural sector since 1979 was less
disappointing than in the immediately preceding years, but was nevertheless
unsatisfactory. Output grew by 7 percent in 1979, fell by 4.5 percent in
1981 but resumed growth by 4.0 percent in 1982 and 2.5 percent in 1983. In
addition to poor weather, there have been shortages of inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved varieties of seeds.  Rice production
did not increase between 1979 and 1982 but most export crops had somewhat
higher outputs in 1982 than in 1979.  In the case of coffee the increase
was only about 2.5 percent. but output reached the highest level so far
obtained.   Clove  production almost  tripled between  1979 and  1980 and
declined slightly thereafter. Vanilla also picked up from a low level in



- 5 -
1979 and almost doubled by 1982. These three crops accounted for over 70
percent of merchandise exports.
16.         Over the last couple of years, the Government has shown its
willingness to take a number of significant stabilization and recovery
policy measures. These measures and their first results are summarized in
para. 51 and Annex III to this report.   The measures represent a major
reversal in the thrust of policies and, therefore, were politically very
difficult. The fact that the Government has been willing to undertake them
shows  that a significant  reassessment has taken place.   The Malagasy
Government's stabilization and recovery efforts have been supported by
successive IMF stand-by arrangements. The latest arrangement, in addition
to establishing performance targets for external borrowing, domestic
credit, reduction in external arrears and maintenance of exchange rate
adjustment, requires increases in the prices of major agricultural
products, further measures to liberalize the marketing of these products
and progress towards a market-determined system of interest rates.
Madagascar has met the June 1984 [MF stand-by target.  In November 1984 a
Consultative Group Meeting was informed of the Government stabilization
efforts and endorsed the Government adjustment program in industry.
17.        Until April 1982, the Malagasy Franc was pegged to the French
Franc.    As  domestic  inflation  rates  substantially  exceeded  those of
Madagascar's major trading partners since about 1979, this led to the
overvaluation of the currency. The overvaluation accentuated Madagascar's
strong dependence on foreign inputs and discouraged exports further.  In
April 1982 the Malagasy Franc was floated on the basis of a basket of
currencies. Furthermore, it was devalued by 15 percent in May 1982, by 6
percent in February 1983, by a further 2 percent in July, by 10.5 percent
in September and by 15 percent in March 1984. These devaluations were in
keeping with an understanding with the IMF which calls for the adoption of
a flexible exchange rate policy aimed at restoring the competitiveness of
the Malagasy Franc against the currencies of its trading partners.
18.        The cumulative effect of exchange rate movements since mid-1982
has been that the Malagasy Franc has been devalued by 58 percent against
the currencies of Madagascar's  major trading partners.   When relative
inflation in Madagascar and in those countries is taken into account, the
real exchange rate has depreciated by 22 percent over the same period. As
a result of these adjustments, it now stands at about the same level as in
1978, a year of reasonable external balance for the country. It should, of
course, be noted again that in the period since 1978 there have been a
significant deterioration in Madagascar's terms of trade and a dramatic
increase in its debt service ratio.   Further real devaluations may be
required. An exchange rate strategy for the immediate future has thus been
developed with the help of Fund staff. For the remainder of 1984 and for
1985, the authorities have decided to depreciate the Malagasy Franc at a
pace  equal  to  domestic  inflation.    Nonetheless,  the  exchange  rate
adjustments already made and the country's current exchange rate policy
constitute an important step towards the reestablishment of external
balance in Madagascar.



-6 -
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Sector Background and Recent Performance
19.         Manufacturing, which in 1960 accounted for about 4 percent of
GDP. tripled its GDP share to about 13 percent by 1970. From 1970 to 1979
manufacturing value added grew at a rate of about 2.5 percent per annum,
falling thereafter by a total of about 35 percent, a drop far greater than
in any other sector. As a result, the sector's contribution grew to only a
14 percent share of GDP at the end of the decade, dropping to an estimated
10 percent by 1983.
20.            Manufacturing growth proceeded along the path of import
substitution. In contrast to mining and some agricultural products such as
coffee,  cloves  and  vanilla  which  were  oriented  towards  exports,
manufacturing was developed mainly in order to meet the consumption
requirements of the domestic market. Under a high level of protection from
foreign competition, the domestic manufacturing sector quickly became the
supplier  of  many  final  consumer  goods.    The  growth  performance  of
Madagascar's manufacturing sector, measured in domestic prices, was rapid
when compared to that of 19 other African countries at similar levels of
development. Madagascar's share of manufacturing in GDP was amongst the
lowest in this group in 1960 and by 1980 it was the second highest,
surpassed only by Senegal.   Thereafter, the deteriorating macroeconomic
situation and the emergence of a severe foreign exchange constraint brought
to the surface the structural inefficiencies of the sector, many of them
caused by the industrial policies described in paras. 42 to 50, and showed
that development along the lines of the recent past was unsustainable.
21.       The rapid deterioration of the manufacturing sector over the past
few years was partly caused by acute shortages of imported inputs and spare
parts and a sharp decline in the supply of domestic agricultural inputs.
As a result of these shortages, a great number of enterprises were forced
to stop or slow down production. Average capacity utilization in selected
enterprises accounting for about three-quarters of manufacturing value
added dropped from about 75 percent in 1979 to 57 percent in 1981 and to 47
percent in 1982. At the subsector level, capacity utilization in 1982 was
estimated at about 40 percent for beer and other beverages, about 20
percent for batteries, concentrated milk, wood panels, soap, candles,
metallic packing materials and paints; about 30 percent for paper products,
leather, matches and pens; about 25 percent for glass bottles; about 15
percent for edible oils; and only about 10 percent for insecticides,
corrugated sheet metals and nails. Only a few industries operated at above
average capacity utilization: clothing (60 percent), cement (75 percent),
sugar, salt and cigarettes (65 percent) and textiles (90 percent).
B. Structure of Manufacturing
Composition of Output
22.         Manufacturing now accounts for about two-thirds of industrial
value added and is dominated by two main subsectors, food processing and
textiles. These two branches account for about 50 percent of manufacturing
value added.  When beverages, cigarettes, garments and leather goods are



also  included,  their  share  increases  to close  to  70 percent.   This
represents a relatively low level of manufacturing diversification. The 30
percent share of the textile subsector in value added, for example.
represents a level of conceotration in this subsector more than twice the
average concentration recorded for countries of a similar size and level of
resource endowment. Other important subsectors include household chemicals
(10 percent of value added), intermediate goods such as metal and paper
products (9 percent), and construction materials and petroleum refining (8
percent).
23.        At the product level, the manufacturing sector is still heavily
dominated by final consumption goods, a feature typical of an early stage
of  industrializat'on  through  import  substitution.   Thus,  of 33 major
products manufactured in Madagascar, 22 are consumer goods (such as food
and tobacco products, garments and footwear) and simple household chemicals
(such as soap, matches, batteries and candles); five are petroleum products
(e.g. kerosene, butane, fuel oil) and only six can be considered as
intermediate goods (pulp, paper, metal sheets, cement, nails and paints).
Capital goods production is practically non-existent in Madagascar.
Manufacturing Inputs
24.        Because of the emphasis on the production of consumer goods, the
manuifacturing sector is still characterized by a low level of integration.
Inter-industry linkages are weak as there is little production of
intermediate goods, and manufacturers have little opportunity to take
advantage of domestic inputs. The high protection afforded to producers of
final consumer goods and liberal exemptions from tariffs and import taxes
on investment and intermediate goods, have not encouraged either the use
of, or investment in, domestic inputs. Even linkages to agriculture have
not always worked well, mainly because of the poor performance of
agriculture.
25.            Reflecting weak domestic  integration,  many manufacturing
enterprises are dependent upon imported inputs.   Import substitution may
have thus reduced Madagascar's dependence of imported consumer goods but it
has increased its reliance on imports of intermediate and capital goods.
In 1983, imports of intermediate goods (excluding petroleum) amounted to
US$115 million or 24 percent of total imports.  According to a survey of
about 200 manufacturing enterprises, they imported close to 60 percent of
their total raw material needs between 1981 and 1983.  Import dependence
was more than 50 percent of total raw material requirements in house'lold
chemical iadustries, textiles and clothing, wood, paper and furniture.
This dependence was lower in food, beverage and leather industries, but
still relatively high at about 35 percent of these industries' total raw
materials needs. These survey results must be interpreted with caution as
enterprises may tend to inflate the requirements for foreign inputs in
order  to  obtain  higher  allocations  of  scarce   foreign  exchange.
Nonetheless, the overall tendency underscores the fact that relatively high
dependence  on  imported  inputs  makes  Malagasy  manufacturing  highly
vulnerable to foreign exchange shortages.



Manufacturing Exports
26.         The orientation of Malagasy manufacturing towards meeting the
consumption requirements of the domestic market has meant that little
attention has been paid to exports. Exports of manufactures have ranged
between five and 10 percent of the sector's output. In 1983, for example,
they amounted to an estilated US$25 million compared to a sectoral output
of almost US$550 million.  Apart from a few export-oriented activities
based on the processing of agricultural products, only the textile industry
exported more than 10 percent of its output, manly to France and Germany.
In addition to exports of surplus petroleum products from the refinery,
major goods exported by the manufacturing sector are: sugar and molasses,
cotton fabrics, essential oils, canned meat and garments.
27.       In recent years, exports of manufactures declined as a percentage
of total exports. Between 1975 and 1983, the share of manufactures to
total exports declined from just over 20 percent to about 10 percent.
Petro'eum product exports were responsible for a large part of this decline
because of a production shift towards domestic uses. There were other
reasons for the relative decline in export industries which are related to
agriculture's inability to produce surpluses for industrial processing and
to a policy bias towards import substitution.  Particularly at times of
scarcity, the Government has put emphasis on raising industrial output
destined for the domestic market, at the expense of potential exports.
These factors are discussed further in the sections on recent sectoral
developments and on past industrial policies.
Enterprise Characteristics
28.           Most manufacturing firms were established in the sixties.
According to a recent survey (1982). there are 362 manufacturing
enterprises.  In addition, there are some 2,000 artisanal enterprises, the
vast majority of which employ less than 5 wor'kers. There is a high level
of concentration in manufacturing as about 100 firms account for almost 80
percent of output and 14 'irms account for about 90 percent of
manufacturing  exports.    The  most  recent  information  on  enterprises
indicates that about 80 percent of manufacturing employment was provided by
enterprises employing more than 100 persons while only 23 firms employed
more than 500 people.  The largest firms are in the food and beverage
industries, the textile industry and the clothing and footwear industries.
Many of the large enterprises enjoy a monopoly position in the market.
Some 55 percent of manufacturing enterprises are located in Antananarivo.
29.       Many industrial firms, particularly the large ones, were owned b,
foreign  private  interests  at  the  time  of their  establishment.   The
Government's attitude towards the productive sectors during the sixties was
conducive  to  the  development  of  private  sector  enterprises.    Local
entrepreneurs were particularly active in small and medium enterprises.
This environment changed in the early seventies with the adoption by
successive Governments of a more interventionist attitude towards the whole
economy. Banks, insurance companies and large trading concerns were all
nationalized and the GDvernment took over the marketing of key agricultural
products.



-9-
30_         Throughout the seventies, the Government pursued a policy of
nationalization of the industrial sector. At the beginning, this policy
was aimed at eliminating foreign control over the sector and was,
therefore, confined to taking over foreign owned firms.  Later on, the
Government sought to bring under its control most of the industrial sector
either by nationalization or by equity participation. As a result of this
widespread nationalization of existing enterprises as well as a large
public investment effort, by the late 1970s a large part of industry had
come under Government control.   At present, out of a total of 362
industrial enterprises, 40 are entirely state owned. The Government has a
majority interest in a further 17 firms and a minority holding of at least
33 percent in another 14.  These include most large scale operations;
mediuar- and small-scale firms have remained mainly in private hands.
Enterprises in which the Government has an interest of more than 50 percent
account for an estfaated 65 percent of sectoral output and a similar share
of employment. Another 15 percent of output is contributed by firms in
which the Government has a substantial minority interest.   Government
control over public sector enterprises is exercised primarily through
appointments to the boards of directors and through the supervision of the
Ministry of Industry.
31.        In 1978, the Government set out the objectives as well as the
organisation and management of state enterprises in the -Charter of
Socialist enterprises.- In theory, the socialist enterprise is the model
to which all firms with at least a 51 percent state share were intended to
conform. Such enterprises are intended to be run by a management committee
with worker representation, which is responsible to a policy council. The
objectives of these enterprises include employment creation and the
provision of goods and ser-ices at low cost.  The Government, however, has
been cautious and pragmatic in applying the Charter. Of 57 enterprises
with majority state ownership only 13 are socialist enterprises, many of
them new projects.  Moreover, in practice socialist enterprises operate
much like private firms.  Indeed, many of the existing firms that were
nationalized have retained their managers and senior staff, thus providing
continuity. The Government has also been receptive to joint ventures with
private concerns and has also often made arrangements for sound management
provided by expatriates, as in the case of the fishing industry.
32.         Preliminary analysis of a sample of firms indicates that the
financial results of state-owned industries vary greatly between individual
firms.  The net financial impact on the Government's budget of all state
enterprises together is estimated to be negative and about half the
companies are operating at a loss. These include some of the largest fully
state owned firms.   On the other hand, several state enterprises are
financially healthy and consistently make satisfactory profits.   These
include particularly those firms where the previous owners, now minority
shareholders, have continued to manage them.
33.       Because a number of investment decisions have been taken without
proper analysis since 1978, the overall condition of the public enterprise
sector is likely to worsen as new projects become operational. However,
for existing firms, the Government's policies and the economik downturn in
Madagascar have probably been more important in influencing financial



- 10 -
results than public ownership in itself. Industry has been facing rising
costs due to low capacity utilization. The slump in demand and the system
of price controls have made it increasingly difficult to pass on these
higher costs despite the fact that most enterprises generally enjoy a high
level of protection from foreign and domestic competition. Price controls
have been particularly damaging for certain goods--sugar, vegetable oil,
cement, jute bags--whose prices are fixed close to, or even below, average
production costs.
Industrial Investment
34.       Between 1975 and 1983, annual industrial investment by both the
private and public sectors ranged from 4.1 to 9.3 percent of GDP and it
averaged about 6 percent.  In the three-year period 1979-81, industrial
investment averaged 8.4 percent of GDP as compared to an annual average of
4.6 percent in the previous three-year period. The lion's share of this
investment was made by the state.  After rapid growth in the sixties,
private sector investment in industry has remained low since 1982. Medium
and longer term loans from banks to private manufacturing enterprises. for
example, dropped by more than half between 1972 and 1975.  The private
sector, discouraged by a political and economic environment that was not
conducive to private sector initiative, invested very little in fixed
assets both for the expansion of existing concerns and for the
establishment of new enterprises.
35.       As noted above, public sector industrial investment accelerated,
particularly in the late seventies. More than 70 percent of investment in
manufacturing between 1979 and 1983 was undertaken by the public sector.
Much of this investment was in new activities (metal products, machinery,
cement) and was aimed at broadening import substitution into areas where
the  private  sector had not ventured.   A  significant part of these
investments was undertaken without adequate analysis and the financial
and/or economic viability of some investments is questionable.
Industrial Employment
36.            Industrial employment in Madagascar accounts for a small
percentage of the total labor force.   In  1983, the industrial sector
employed about 120,000 persons, or only about 2.6 percent of the labor
force. In the same year, this relatively small part of the economically
active population accounted for about 15 percent of GDP-about half the
contribution of agriculture which employed, however, close to 90 percent of
the labor force. The manufacturing sector employed about 70,000 persons.
Included in this total is an estimated 10,000 persons employed in the
informal handicrafts sector (tailoring, basket weaving, food, leather, wool
and metal working). Manufacturing employment grew at an annual rate of
about 6.5 percent in the sixties but this growth rate dropped to about one
percent a year in the seventies while there appears to have been no growth
in the early eighties.
37.         Wages in manufacturing in 1983 averaged about 24,000 FMG (or
US$56) per month.  Wage costs were 20 pev-:.t higher because of social
security and other charges. The minimum monthly wage for nonagricultural



- 11 -
employment in 1983 was FMG 17,000 (or US$39).  In earlier years, nominal
wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in Madagascar were higher than
in  other  African  countries.    Madagascar's  relatively  rich  natural
endowments and a profitable agricultural sector were largely responsible
for this phenomenon up to the early 1970s.   Thereafter, nominal wage
increases lagged behind the rapid inflation rate of the late seventies and
early eighties, and as the exchange rate began to depreciate, wage rates,
measured  in  US  dollars,  dropped.    Manufacturing monthly  earnings  in
Madagascar are now significantly lower than in some African countries at
comparable levels of development for which information is available (e.g.
Burundi, Malawi, Zambia and Kenya), but considerably higher than earnings
in some low-income Asian countries (e.g. Sri Lanka and Bangladesh).
3s.        In recent years, the Government has followed a policy of wage
restraint for public sector employees and has also encouraged wage
reduction as an alternative to lay-cffs in parastatal and private sector
enterprises. At the same time, however, the Government has instituted a
policy of not permitting the lay-off of industrial labor without its prior
authorization. This authorization has been rarely granted and industrial
employment has not fallen significantly despite substantial reductions in
industrial output. As a result of this policy, however, labor productivity
has declined.
C. The Financial Sector
39.        Madagascar's financial system was reorganized in 1977, when the
then existing co mercial and development banks (all of which had been
nationalized in 1975) were merged to create three new national banks
specialized by sector: the National Bank for Industry (BNI), the National
Bank for Agriculture (BTM), and the National Bank for Trade (BFV).   The
state is the sole shareholder in all three banks.   These three banks,
together with the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM), a postal checking
system, two insurance companies and an investment fund, constitute the
country's financial sector.
40.       The Central Bank is responsible for regulating all the financial
institutions in the country and for establishing and administering national
monetary and credit policies as well as managing international reserves.
Each of the three banks is expected to concentrate on its prescribed
sector, and to lend outside that sector only as a cofinancier with the
appropriate lead bank.  In practice, however, the three compete for both
deposits and loans.  Further details on the activities of BNI, which is
expected to play an active role in the proposed Credit, are provided in
Annex IV.
41.        The three national banks have generally been able to provide an
adequate service to depositors and to industrial clients.   The recent
deterioration in the Central Bank's net foreign asset position, however,
has put limits to the banks' lending capacity. Although in 1982-83 about
half of the total short-term credit went to private sector enterprises,
larger, mostly state-owned enterprises absorbed an increasing share of the
limited credit.   The precarious  financial situation of some of these
enterprises presents a potential threat to the health of the banking
system.



- 12 -
D. Past Industrial Policies
42.          The main objective of industrial policy in Madagascar after
independence was to diversify the structure of national production through
the encouragement of industry. This objective was based on the desire to
reduce the economy's vulnerability to adverse movements in international
agricultural prices and on the perception that industry promoted faster
economic  growth  and  increased  employment  opportunities.          Import
substitution offered the easiest road to rapid growth in manufacturing
output and was achieved through policies protecting domestic production
from external competition. Tariffs and import taxes were the early means
of protection during the 1960s.   In the late  1970s, however,  import
prohibitions, strict import licencing practices and foreign exchange
rationing, dictated by the Government's attempt to maintain an overvalued
exchange rate in the face of rapid inflation, were the main sources of the
high level of effective protection to domestic industry.
43.        Following the military coup in 1972. two other main themes of
Madagascar's industrial policy emerged. First, the Government undertook a
widespread nationalization of economic activity. With regard to industry,
public ownership of the most important enterprises was the means through
which national control replaced foreign interests in a priority sector.
Beyond the desire to reduce foreign influence, nationalization also
reflected impatience with the pace of industrialization which the private
sector, whether domestic or foreign, was able to achieve.   Particularly
towards the ead of the 1970s, this led to substantial public sector
investment in industry in sub-sectors where the private sector had not
ventured.
44.           A second but related main theme was the adoption by the
Government   of   an  interventionist   attitude  towards  the  economy,
characterized by the strengthening and extension of central regulation and
a corresponding reduction in the role of prices in allocating resources.
Thus, price controls were generalized and enforced with greater vigor than
before and import restrictions and exchange controls were tightened. The
following six paragraphs discuss in greater detail the various aspects of
Madagascar's industrial policy.
Trade Regime
45.           Industry in Madagascar is highly protected.   Up to 1976,
protection was granted mainly through custom duties and import taxes.
While duties are generally low and uniform with orly four rates (0, 5, 10
and 15 percent), taxes are relatively high and vary over a wide range of up
to 100-150 percent.  In many instances finished industrial products have
the same or even lower duty rates than raw materials and/or intermediate
goods used in their production. Import taxes, however, are generally low
on raw materials, higher on intermediate goods and in the upper range for
most finished products.
46.        More recently, the level of protection has increased further as
imports have been subject to increasingly tight quantitative restrictions
because of the increasing foreign exchange shortages. Currently, all goods



- 13 -
are subject to import restrictions and are classified into two categories:
(i) those whose import is prohibited and (ii) those which can be imported
but only under a detailed annual licensing program. This system of import
controls and quantitative restrictions, combined with the structwre of
import taxes described above, provides a high level of effective protection
to import substitution industries. Preliminary estimates undertaken during
the preparation of the Credit proposed in this report, show high and fairly
dispersed levels of effective protection among subsectors:   protection
rates of between 50 and 100 percent were estimated for cement, food
processing, plastics and leather and rates in excess of 100 percent were
encountered in textiles, paints, edible oil and paper.
Price Controls
47.             Price controls have existed in Magadascar since before
independence.  In the late 1970s, in an attempt to control the pricing
behavior of protected local industry and, more recently, to protect
consumers from the impact of increasing scarcities, the use of Government
price controls was intensified and generalized to apply to all industrial
goods. Under this rigid and cumbersome system, any price increase had to
be authorized by the Government. This was done on the basis of cost plus a
set margin for each subsector. Up to 1982, authorizations, when granted,
were given with a delay of several months, and often only in part. On the
advice of IDA staff, Government has recently reduced delays in responding
to price increase requests.  Authorizations for price increases are now
given in many cases within one month from the time of application. Despite
this improvement, the system remains unnecessarily complex, it impedes
industrial efficiency, discourages output increases, and has in some cases
adversely affected the financial health of manufacturing firms. Similarly,
the Government's policy of holding down the prices of agricultural products
to provide cheap inputs to industry is a major factor in the declining
availability of these products. Extensive price liberalization is a major
objective of the Credit proposed in this report and has already begun
(paras. 54-56).
Investment Incentives
48.       In 1973, the Government enacted an Investment Code which provides
fiscal and other incentives to investors, including reduction of customs
duties and taxes on imported equipment, protection from competing imports,
corporate tax relief for up to five years and priority in the allocation of
foreign exchange. The Code, however, lacks precision and is open to widely
different interpretations. Eligibility criteria are vague and the nature
and extent of benefits are decided upon by Government without apparent
consistency. The significance of several of the main incentives is more
apparent than real because they are made redundant by other Government
regulations.  For example, the general tax law offers to all investments
accelerated depreciation schedules for 50 to 100 percent of the investment,
which is equivalent to the corporate tax relief offered by the Code.
Similarly, higa protection through import taxes makes some investments
profitable even without tax relief which means that the Government may be
unnecessarily foregoing fiscal revenues.



- 14 -
49.        The Investment Code makes a distinction between three categories
of activities:   those reserved to the state,  those calling for joint
ventures between the state and private investors and those open to private
initiative.  However, the content of each category is not defined.   The
Code gives greater advantages to new Credits as against investments for
expansion,  rehabilitation  or  modernization.       This  has  not  proven
appropriate during recent times when consolidation of existing capacity
should have been the correct policy objective. Also, generous accelerated
depreciation provisions and easy access to tax-free imported equipment
favor capital intensive techniques, which is not consistent with the
employment-creation objectives of the Government.
Export Incentives and Regulations
50.        Additional incentives to those granted to all investors are, in
principle, available to exporters under an ordinance enacted in 1973. which
also regulates export procedures.   On the incentives side, it has never
become operational for lack of specific legislation required for its
implementation.   According to the dormant provisions of the ordinance,
export enterprises would benefit from partial or total exoneration of
import taxes on capital goods and from partial or total income tax relief.
In addition, exports would benefit from a number of other provisions such
as access to special credit windows, insurance, technical assistance, and
duty free imports of inputs.   On the other hand, until recently the
regulatory side of the ordinance had restricted freedom of exporting. Each
exporter had to hold an exporter's card, which was valid for specific goods
only and had to be renewed every year. In addition, each export shipment
had to be authorized, such authorization being given only when the
Government was satisfied that the proposed operation did not contravene
existing regulations and the invoiced price was adequate.   Delays in
granting authorizations had sometimes resulted in cancellations of orders.
Under the proposed operation, these procedures have been simplified and
streamlined (para. 61).
P4RT III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY
A. The Adjustment Process
51.           The economic crisis of the early 1980s has prompted the
Government to reconsider many of its past policies and to appreciate that a
sustained improvement In the economy's performance requires policy
reforms. In 1981, in the face of the deteriorating economic situation, the
Malagasy Government began implementing stabilization measures aimed at
containing aggregate demand.   The thrust of Madagascar's stabilization
efforts, supported by the IMF through several stand-by arrangements,
included tax measures, an improved expenditure control system, increases in
tariffs charged by public enterprises and a reduction in consumer
subsidies.  As a result of austerity measures, the overall public sector
deficit was reduced from 18.4 percent of GDP in 1980 to 8.7 percent in 1982
and to 6.7 percent in 1983. The resource gap was also reduced from about
17 percent of GDP in 1980 to 9.5 percent in 1982 and to 8 percent in 1983.
Fiscal restraint and tight money played a significant role in reducing



- 15 -
annual inflation to an estimated 22 percent rate in 1983. compared to over
30 percent in both 1981 and 1982.
52.         Given the fiscal adjustment already achieved, further deficit
reductions are likely to be slower and their balance of payments impact
sma7ler than in 1982 and 1983. As a result, the Government, supported by a
fourth IMF stand-by arrangement, has recently begun to emphasize the
liberalization of pricing and marketing arrangements in agriculture aimed
at improving production and export performance.  Government also recognizes
that the revitalization of industry on an efficient basis would make an
important contribution to overall economic recovery.
B. Towards a New Industrial Strategy
53.       The Government, operating in a difficult short-term setting, has
either taken, or is considering, measures to reestablish an economic
environment conducive to efficiency.   The country's  economic team is
attempting to strike a balance in the pace of policy reforms in order to
achieve greater efficiency in the industrial sector without causing severe
economic dislocation and possible social unrest. An immediate objective of
the Government's industrial strategy is, therefore, to raise the level of
capacity utilization of the sector so as to promote the production of
consumer goods and exports.   Increased availability of basic industrial
goods  would  provide  incentives  to  farmers  to  raise  agricultural
production.  Increased industrial exports would also contribute towards
regaining external equilibrium. Through the reactivation of the industrial
sector, the Government also wishes to avoid reductions of employment
opportunities for the country's growing labor force. Building on important
initiatives already undertaken in the areas of economic stabilization and
agricultural pricing, the Government has already begun moving to decontrol
the prices of a large majority of manufactured goods, to adopt a more
rational public investment program, to introduce measures to encourage
industrial exports, to remove some import restrictions and to implement an
investment code tha. encourages private sector initiative. Major aspects
of the Government's new industrial policies are summarized below.
54.    (a) Price Controls:  Extensive use of price controls with the stated
objective of defusing inflationary pressures and guarding against the
possibility of excessive price increases in the absence of competitive
markets, has aggravated shortages and distortions and has also inflicted
financial hardship on enterprises (para. 47).  Consistent with Bank Group
advice, the Government has already taken some steps to render the price
control system more responsive, such as acting within one month on requests
for price increases.  Under the proposed Credit the price liberalization
process would be significantly advanced.
55.        The Government has decided to free prices of manufactured goods
representing 70 percent of value added in manufacturing before the release
of the second tranche of the proposed credit.   Specifically, prices of
manufactured goods representing about 35 percent of manufacturing value
added have already been freed and another 35 percent will be freed between
effectiveness and the release of the second tranche (Schedule 4 of
Development Credit.   Major products whose prices will be decontrolled



- 16 -
decontrolled include textiles, cigarettes, shoes and cement. A list of 31
goods representing approximately 30 percent of manufacturing value added
would not be decontrolled during the life of the proposed Credit.   The
Government wishes to continue controlling for the meantime prices of
certain basic necessities and of certain goods which are produced by
monopolies.    These  include  sugar,  bread,  flour,  paper,  soap,  school
materials, medicine and candles.
56.          The Government's strategy, as spelled out in its development
policy statement (Annex III), is to ultimately phase out price controls on
most of the remaining 31 goods. In the meantime, price control procedures
for these goods would be made more flexible by allowing enterprises to put
price increases into effect if the Government has not objected within
thirty days  from  the submission  of  the application.    To  the extent
possible, prices of controlled goods would also be set at levels prevailing
in competitive markets for the same goods in comparable countries and in no
case would an efficient manufacturer be forced to price his output below
the average cost of production. The Government has already begun moving in
this direction by recently authorizing a 50 percent increase in the
ex-factory price of sugar and a 40 percent increase in the price of paper.
57.        (b) Public Investment Program in Industry (PIP):  The appraisal
mission reviewed 21 industrial projects under execution. Sixteen of these
projects have been inadequately prepared, and are likely to face
significant technical, financial or economic problems and their viability
is doubtful.   For most of these projects Government plans no further
investments unless and until their viability (either in their present or
some restructured forms) is established. In order to assess the viability
of   these  projects  and  make  specific  recommendations,  specialized
consultants will carry out a full analysis of their economic, financial and
technical aspects.  Terms of reference for the study of these projects,
financed under a PPF of US$500,000, have already been approved by IDA. As
the studies for these projects are completed, Government and IDA would
reach agreement as to their future.
58.        For 1984, an understanding on the industrial investment program
has been reached with the Government. An appropriate level of investment,
consistent with available resources and the implementation capacity of the
Government providing for a total 1984 public sector investment in industry
of FMG 10.4 billion (about US$17 million) was agreed. This contrasts with
an annual average in excess of FMG 50 billion (US$80 million) since 1979.
59.          A major issue facing the Government in the area of public
investment is what to do about the economically dubious Zeren urea plant
which is by far the single most important industrial public investment in
Madagascar. With total cost estimated at about US$80 million, Zeren is the
largest of the 21 projects under implementation in the industrial sector
and accounts for 28 percent of the expected total investment cost of these



- 17 -
projects.    Construction  of  the  project  is  95  percent  complete  and
investment of only about US$3 million remains to be made.  Because of
doubts regarding the Zeren project, Government has agreed not to start-up
its operation--except on a limited pilot basis--until a consultants'study,
satisfactory to the Association, has established that its operation (either
as originally conceived or through appropriate redesign) would be
economically justified, treating existing investments as a sunk cost.
Government has also agreed not to start-up the largely completed Hamisoa
vegetable  oil  factory,  another  large  scheme  whose  viability  is
questionable, unless a satisfactory study establishes that it, too, is or
can be rendered (through modifications) economically justified (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
60.            In addition, the understandings reached between IDA and
Gjovernment include: (i) the PIP in industry for 1985 would be agreed upon
as a condition of effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01
(c)); and (ii) agreement on the PIP in industry for 1986 would be a
condition of release of the second tranche (Schedule 4 of Development
Credit Agreement).   As a further safeguard against  the launching of
greenfield projects of dubious economic merit, the government would consult
with IDA before starting any major new industrial projects (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).  Agreement has been confirmed that this
consultation will take place for all new projects for which total
investment is in excess of US$4 million.
61.       (c) Export Promotion: The encouragement of exports is one way to
eventually break out of the foreign exchange constraints holding back the
recovery and longer term development of the industrial sector in
Madagascar.   Until recently, however, Government policies had created an
export climate characterized more by procedural impediments than by
encouragement (para. 50).   This is beginning to change.   The recently
enacted devaluations of the Malagasy franc can be expected to provide a
stimulus to exports and the Government is now allowing manufacturers to
import goods needed for the production of exports. Moreover, in the course
of preparing the proposed Credit, the Malagasy authorities have simplified
export procedures. Exporters are now licensed to export a range of goods
rather than only specific items as was previously the case. Export cards
are now renewed automatically, and the requirement for Government clearance
prior to each consignment has been dropped for all exporters with a
previous export record and has been replaced by selective ex-post checks.
62.        Because of the severe shortage of foreign exchange, exporters
have to apply to the Ministry of Industry, like all industrial enterprises,
for the allocation of a foreign exchange quota.   It is, however, not
uncommon for foreign exchange not to be available in the banking system to
honor this quota. As a step towards easing the difficult environment in
which exporters have to operate, a ministerial decree of March 1983
established a scheme known as the EPI account (export, parts, inputs),
whereby exporters are assured access to part of their net export receipts
to pay for their spare parts and inputs used in the production of exports.
In June 1983 about a dozen firms in mining, fishing, textiles and leather
were guaranteed access to foreign exchange ranging from 10 percent (mining)
to 30 percent (leather) of their net export receipts for their own import



- 18 -
requirements.   More recently, other firms have been able to negotiate
retention rates sufficiently high to cover their needs for imported goods.
The Government has indicated its willingness to apply the EPI account to
all manufacturing exporters. Satisfactory implementation of the EPI system
for all exporters will be a condition for the release of the second tranche
(Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement).
63.        Preliminary agreement has also been reached with the Government
on the following practical measures which are designed to increase further
the incentive to export: (i) export taxes for all manufactured goods would
be eliminated and (ii) exporters of manufactured goods would be exonerated
from all indirect taxes on raw materials and spare parts used as inputs in
export production.  Beyond these measures, which should be in place as a
condition of the Credit's effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01 (e)), the Government has indicated its willingness to prepare
a program of actions designed to further increase the profitability of
exports.   This could include, for example, an improved export earnings
retention scheme, an effective duty drawback system and the creation of a
special unit in the Ministry of Commerce that would provide a "one-stop-
service to assist exporters in all aspects of the export activity.  The
terms of reference for consultants to help with the preparation of this
program were agreed at negotiations and the consultants' hiring would be
made a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development
Credit  Agreement,  Section  6.01  (b)).    The  actual  enactment  of  a
satisfactory program would be a condition for the release of the second
tranche (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement).
64.        (d) Import Restrictions:  All Madagascar imports--except those
needed by manufacturers to produce exports--are subject to either
quantitative restrictions or prohibitions (para. 46).   In order to move
towards opening up the economy and promoting greater efficiency, the
Government has also undertaken to prepare an action program for import
liberalization. This would initially involve removing prohibitions on the
imports of some goods and replacing them by tariffs.   A list of goods
satisfactory to the Association would be established with priority given to
permitting imports of goods that are currently produced by local monopolies
and/or which are basic necessities. As a first step, prohibitions would be
lifted before the Credit's effectiveness on five percent of the goods whose
importation is currently prohibited and on another 15 percent before the
release of the Credit's second tranche.  Import licences and some foreign
exchange would be made available for the importation of these goods
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (d), and Schedule 4 of the
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the Government has agreed with
the IMF that products accounting for five percent of the 1984 import
program will be put on an  Open General License  system.  Thereafter, the
Government's action program will spell out the details of further
progressive  relaxation  of  import  restrictions  and  prohibitions.    The
program will be prepared with the help of consultants financed under the
Technical Assistance Component of the proposed Credit (para. 94 (iii)) and
the terms of reference for this technical assistance were agreed at
negotiations. The hiring of the consultants who would assist Government in
drawing up this action program would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)).



- 19 -
65.           (e) Investment Code/Charter of Socialist Enterprises:   The
Investment Code, enacted in 1973, has some significant defects (paras. 48
and 49).   The Investment Code has an impact on the size, nature and
direction of investment, along with the overall stability of the economic
and political environment. Policies such as those contained in the package
outlined in this report would contribute to economic recovery and efficient
growth and should encourage private investors. Further encouragement could
be provided as the degree of regulation and bureaucratic requirements, some
of them dictated by the current economic and financial crisis, are reduced.
66.        At the request of the Government, the European Development Fund
sent in January 1984 an expert from SEMA, a French consulting firm, to
review the Code with the authorities and prepare the draft of an improved
Investment Code. The Government has agreed to consult with the Association
on a final version to be submitted to Parliament before the release of the
second tranche of the proposed Credit (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
67.        The Charter of Socialist Enterprises, a law enacted in 1978,
stipulates that any enterprise in which the State has 51 percent of the
share capital will be converted to a socialist enterprise, to be managed by
committees with worker participation. The Government recognizes that this
constitutes an obstacle to attracting foreign partners in industrial
ventures.   As indicated above, the Government has been flexible in the
application of this Charter.   The Government  confirmed  that it will
continue to apply the Charter in a flexible manner (e.g., that the
provisions of the Charter would be waived when so agreed between the
Government and private investors at the time of company establishment).
This is confirmed in the Government's Statement on Industrial Policy
(Annex III).
68.        In addition to the specific program for the industrial sector
outlined above, the Government is also undertaking several initiatives
designed to improve efficiency and resource allocation in the public
sector. These are outlined below:
69.         (a) Industrial Public Enterprises:  In the area of industrial
public enterprises, wherever financial performance has been particularly
poor the Government has taken action.  Five companies have been recently
shut down and further closings are under consideration. The Government is
also negotiating the sale of equity participations in 10 public enterprises
to private sector shareholders who will also assume responsibility for
management.   Supported by the Credit recommended in this report,  the
Government is starting to improve the policy environment in which public
enterprises operate and this, together with efforts to improve their
management, should have a positive impact on their performance.
70.          (b) Foreign Exchange Allocation:   Import programs have been
established under IMF stand-by agreements for the past few years but the
foreign exchange availability has not been adequate to meet the needs of
even a minimum import program. A Technical Committee on External Payments
was established about 18 months ago. The Committee meets weekly under the
chairmanship  of  the  Minister  of  Finance  and  includes  high-level



- 20 -
representatives of the Central Bank, the Planning Directorate, the
commercial banks and main economic ministries.    The Comuittee's  main
function has been to establish short-term schedules and priorities for
meeting foreign exchange payments falling due.
71.        More recently, the Committee has begun to address problems of
assessing the foreign exchange needs of the economy, to establish a system
of foreign exchange budgeting and to develop criteria for foreign exchange
allocation which could become more automatic as the foreign exchange
situation eases.   This committee operates effectively.   It is, however,
desirable to progress from the current 'emergency and short-term'
procedures for foreign exchange allocation to a more systematic approach.
Bank Group staff have discussed with the Central Bank and the Planning
Directorate staff the formalization of a foreign exchange allocation system
which establishes priority criteria, ensures a more automatic and less
administratively controlled system, and a more adequate allocation to the
private sector.
72.          (c) National Public Investment Program:   The Government has
recently begun to take steps to improve the process of public investment
programming and control. This initiative, apart from bringing Government
investments in line with projected resource availabilities and ensuring a
degree of coordination between ministries and agencies that has been
lacking in the past, emphasizes rehabilitation and maintenance rather than
new investments.   Proposed reforms in the area of public investment in
which Bank Group Staff have actively assisted the Government include:  a)
establishment of institutional and administrati%e procedures which ensure
an effective inter-ministerial coordination of investment decisions; b)
establishment of a rolling three year public investment program geared to
resources economically available, in line with priority activities in the
economy and closely integrated into the annual Government budget; and c)
improvement in investment project preparation capability in the main
economic ministries  and in  the Planning Directorate.    An  Investment
Coordinating Committee has been established and its composition, objectives
and terms of reference have been reviewed by Bank Group staff.   The
proposals cover, in detail, procedures for review and decision-taking for
all phases of the project cycle. The Committee's decisions on investment
selection will be governed by agreed selection criteria. The establishment
of these procedures represents considerable strengthening of public
investment management.  The Government has requested assistance from the
World Bank and from France to further improve its public investment
planning system. The Bank has decided to second a staff member to assist
in this task.
73.        (d) External Debt Management:  Procedures for decision taking on
the contracting of new external loans for Madagascar require further
improvement. Considerable progress in reporting, recording and processing
data on external debt has already taken place and the Government has
prepared proposals for the establishment of an Investment Financing
Committee.   Proposals on the compcsition, role and terms of reference of
this committee have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and they represent
considerably improved safeguards for the contracting and monitoring of
external debt.  The Investment Coordinating Committee and the Investment



- 21 -
Financing Committee would be jointly responsible for submitting Public
Investment Program proposals to Government.
74.       In parallel to the introduction of the industrial policy measures
described in paras. 53 to 67 and the national resource allocation measures
outlined in paras. 69 to 73, the Government's other main priority is to
provide foreign exchange to efficient enterprises so that raw material
inputs necessary for a higher level of industrial production can be
imported. This would be consistent with the Government's demand management
objectives. The 1984 import program agreed with the IMF provides for a 17
percent increase in raw materials for the purpose of reactivating
industrial production despite a 7 percent reduction in the overall import
program. For 1985, imports of raw materials are programmed to increase by
a further 21 percent over the 1984 level. The credit recommended in this
report, whose main component consists of providing foreign exchange for raw
material and spare parts imports for efficient industrial enterprises,
supports this objective as well as the measures the Government has
taken--or is considering--as it moves towards a new industrial strategy.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History and Rationale
75.       In 1981 the Government raised with the Bank Group the possibility
of balance of payments assistance and opened discussions with the Bank on a
broad program of  sectoral  reforms.   In the following year,  a mission
visited Madagascar and determined that the situation of industry had
deteriorated seriously and that extensive policy reform was required.  In
June of 1983 a mission discussed a program for the rehabilitation of the
industrial sector.
76.         The proposed Credit was appraised by an IDA mission in January
1984.    A  post-appraisal  mission  visited  Madagascar  in  June  1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington from November 5 to 16 and in Paris
from November  26 to 30.   The Malagasy  team  was  headed  by Mr.  Leon
Rajaobelina, the Malagasy Ambassador to the U.S.A.
77.         The preparation of the proposed Credit has served as a useful
vehicle for the dialogue between Government and the Bank Group on a number
of far-reaching policy changes affecting a variety of macro and industrial
sector issues.   These policy changes  constitute  important first steps
towards transforming Madagascar's industrial sector into a more efficient,
open, export-oriented one which can make an increasingly important
contribution to the country's balance of payments and to the growth of
employment and output.
B. Previous Bank Group Support for Industry
78.       Previous Bank Group assistance to the industrial sector has been
through a DFC line of credit of US$5.0 million to BNI (No. 977-MAG).- This
Credit was approved in January 1980.   At the end of November 1984, the
Credit was about 98 percent committed, while disbursements amounted to
US$3.2 million.   The Credit was committed more slowly than expected at
approval mainly because the economic recession in Madagascar resulted in



- 22 -
the delaying or cancellation of several new investment proposals whlch were
envisaged by BNI. Instead, several smaller rehabilitation proposals were
approved.   In addition, the demand for foreign exchange has been far
greater for spare parts and raw materials than for fixed investment.
C. Credit Objectives
79.         The basic purpose of the proposed Credit of SDR 40.2 million
($40 million equivalent) is to bring about significant policy changes in
the industrial sector designed to increase its efficiency and, at the same
time, to help Increase the capacity utilization of the industrial sector
and  promote  the  production  of  exports  and  consumer  goods.    Good
possibilities exist in the sector for both efficient import substitution
and some export promotion.  Production capacity already exists in local
industry and, by increasing capacity utilization levels, output could be
revived without any significant increase in new investment. In the context
of the proposed Project's preparation, the Government and the Association
have reached agreement on development objectives for the sector and on the
most appropriate strategy to achieve them.   These understandings are
reflected in the Goverament's Statement on Industrial Goals, which is
presented in Annex III of this report. This Credit is a first step in an
effort aimed at eliminating distortions in the sector and the economy and
it is anticipated that further reforms will be achieved through subsequent
IDA Credits in the sector. The main features of the policy reforms which
this Credit supports were discussed in paras. 53 to 67 above and are
summarized below in the form of a matrix on page 22 (i) - (iv).
D. Credit Components and Timing
80.         The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 40.2 million would include the
following three components:
a) Financing for the importation of
spare parts, raw materials and
other inputs for priority
enterprises;                         SDR 33.7 million
b) Financing of equipment for
rehabilitation of selected
enterprises; and                           5.0
c) Technical assistance to the
Ministry of Industry, Energy
and Mining.                                1.5
SDR 40.2 million
The proposed Credit would be made to the Government. The SDR 33.7 million
of foreign exchange assistance for spare parts and raw materials would be
sold by the Central Bank to eligible enterprises through the commercial
bank network while SDR 5 million would be onlent to BNI, the Bank for
Industry, and SDR 1.5 million would be made available to the Ministry of
Industry, Energy and Mining.



SUMMY OF aMovNr MhiM FRW IMRl   WM
TDbUMI OF MPMNrATION
Before Board Prentatton            Firt Year Pnvgran       CondMotin of Rleie4we    -     ium Tem
,                 ~~~~~~of Seod   Tvach
I - Price Ulberaliwation
Objective: lb mwa the KakIsy          Peice of wis reprontir           Price of  oods          Only 31 prdkicts         Graduwl renvvwl of
eamny more mpomlve to mirket          35 percent of nuufacturirg          repreoentirg outher     (reprmsentiaE ahut       controls on n2t of
forces ao   t to Increase its         valuta suWa freel frmn oontol      35 percent valuo         30 percent of            the ronining 31
efficiency, dymnih  nn                                                    atded freel frn         induntrtal valte         goods
productivity. Progressive                                                control                  added) to ramin
elLmlnation of price citrols on                                                                  under price
met inditrial  xods.                                                                              control. For thus
producte amtrolled
prices to he brmont
Into line wlth wrld
Streanine controL poedWee                                   prices
on rlunlrq  citrolld gxods -
re&ce repome period to one
nvth fram timu of Mplication
It - FPjrt pronution ee Jwort 4beraltuation
ObJective:  Increme the outwanr       Devaluation of eeduno  rate in     F4qort enrnirw                                    Tariff reom with a
orLencatian mA efficLency of the      Una with 1W stand-by;              retention schen to                                vlw to redwirg
KaIely   y     through the             alesy Franc devalued by 58        be mtexeld to all                                 antl-vxport him of
prwtion ef exportu.                   percent since mid-1982 - real      nuufacturing                                      exitiig sttucturwe
rate depreclited by 22 percent;    a.portem coveriq                                   laplemnt a l1.r
Moption of flexible exdluig        all thelr foren                                  ard ero uaifonu
rate polLcy to mnintaLn            exha  red. for                                    leal of effective
ccqtitiLvenm   with tradiW         the production of                                 protection
purtneam                           export ypodm
Ihm  actlom mre td. before or durlr nhgotiati



TIM1NO OF IMPI1lATION
Before Board Ptentation             First Year Program       Condition of Relenme          Mbtu Tom
.         ~~~of Second T hanhe
Prepare Action            Implement
Prqgram to promvte        satisfactory Attion
exports - thrtigh, for    Prograu to promote
exayple, irproved         exports
export earning
retention dhuem, dsty
drnwback syatom, etc.
F*porters to be licermed to          Fxort tax.R On all
export ran%W  of poods rather        mzufactured gxods
th*n specific lteow; export          elininated; exporters
card rerisI automttcaltyl            of anufactured xodos
governmnt clearance prior to         exsnerated from  all
oesh export shipnr t                 indirect tam  on ret
discontimvsd                         materials and spare
parts used In the
production of exports
-tboth aondlttou of
effectivenes
Objective   Progrepsive lmort           Nb prdhibitiom  on iaworts of         Undortake a stuidy of     Remov  prohibitions       Prograsive
liberalization in order to imrave       gxods for use In exort               tho trade rege             on a further 15           relwxAtion of InWrt
Irdustrial efficlency thrxi             production                           Also, reove iort           perce ot   gpods          rtricttom  aid
greater onwietitIon frau abrord and                                           proilbitions on 5         cirrently prohibited      revision of tariffs,
to enooura  export.                     Qxods accontirg for 5 percent        percent of oiurrently                                both in accordeince
of the 1984 iport propsm             prohlbited gxods                                    with reconwn.datlom
will, in 1985, be put on an          (prlority to be given                               of trade regime
'Open General Licenee  system        to incentive and mono-                               tudy.
poly  oods) before
effectiveness.
Forelg  exchange also
to be nmde available
to punit actual
lnx,rtatlon of these
Mode.



TU4WN  (F 1OU'L ATLC. N
Peforo PRonr Prwentntion            Firt Yenr Progam         Ccntitin Of ROleiRo            Malitun Tem
of Seca-1 Trac
HII - Ai,blic Investrt rm   ln Incnwtr!
Objective:  Rattonalize the PIP          Govenr-Int/DA i*reanuit an           Govoronent/Ml)                ernint/IDA             Create a procos of
process, astabLish criteria for          1984 Pt!l for IrKustty                arint on 1985            agreennt on 1986          3jear Public
project select ion, strergthln                                                linuwtry PIP - as          iiutry PIP                Invostnent
project appraisal capability.                                                  oniltlon of                                         Prograadi  1as  on
effectivemc40                                       prqoer prqject
selectIon and
reo3ures allocation
criteria
MIopt criteria for Project           Strengthen Project
SelectLon                            Appraisal capability
at iaMi
Coveurment/MDA agroewent that
govenumti will not lmmch uv 
new iidutrial projects for
which total lrnvetnmnt exceaoh
US$4 million withcxit MDA
approval
OCNetrnunt/MA agreeuunt that
gOvertllnt will not Olerate
qtwstionable Zeren urea ami
Mhnlsoa vegetable oil projects
(except an a lLmited pilot
bisis In the cue of Zeren)
unless their ecounoc viabLilty
is established



TD4   OF  D4RIWM ON
Before Board Presitatton          Firet Year Pv*rm        C4ndtiton of P.1e            Medium Tomn
_               ~~~~of Swcord Trand,
IV - Private Sector Eioiraunt
Objective: Fmurage private sector   aOvernrent to culutt with IDA          Comtiue Prar  ofd        Present new
to runm acti%e rote in thu            on drdft ne Invatment Ond&          iwnlvirg private         Invettent Code, which
industrial sector.                                                        sector ln Fublic         wouId reflect IOA cnwants,
Covewront to con!fin that          Enterprises               to National Aselbly.
Ciarter of Socialist Enter-
prises will be applied flexibly
4



- 23 -
Industrial Imports Component
81.          An amount of SDR 33.5 million would be allocated to finance
imports of spare parts, raw materials and other inputs for industry. This
represents 84 percent of the proposed Credit, by far the largest
component. The purpose would be to raise the capacity utilization of
industrial enterprises that are considered to be of high priority on the
basis of (i) producing either export or essential goods or intermediate
goods for these two categories and (ii) being able to use foreign exchange
efficiently.
82.        Eligible enterprises:  Only those firms which are able to meet
specific criteria would benefit from the proceeds of the IDA Credit
(Development  Credit  Agreement,  Section  3.01  (b)  (ii)).    Eligible
enterprises must have a ratio of value added to the value of their inputs,
both calculated at border price, at least equal to 50 percent.
83.          The Ministry of Industry selected, from the 211 enterprises
(accounting for about 90 percent of manufacturing value added in 1982)
which submitted requests for foreign exchange in 1984, 80 enterprises
producing either export or essential goods or intermediate goods for these
two categories. These firms, which in 1982 accounted for an estimated 70
percent of total manufacturing value added, have estimated their total
requirements for spare parts and raw materials for one year at about US$95
million. The average annual allocation to these firms for the previous
three years (1981-83) was about US$32 million. In 1983, these 80 priority
firms received 94 percent of the foreign exchange allocated to the
industrial sector. This compares with an 81 percent share in 1982 and 75
percent in 1981 and reflects a desire on the part of the authorities to
increase allocations of foreign exchange to priority enterprises.  Their
average capacity utilization rate during this period was 52 percent.
84.        In order to ensure that foreign exchange is allocated to firs
whose efficiency and ability to use foreign exchange efficiently is proven,
Bank and Ministry of Industry staff carried out a selection test (para. 82)
to determine the list of eligible enterprises.   This list was finally
agreed upon during negotiations. Of the 80 firms initially selected by the
P4inistry of Industry, 58 passed the test and were declared eligible to
receive IDA funds. The list of eligible firms will, however, be flexible
and any zther firm whose eligibility is thereafter established by applying
the same economic criteria will also be able to benefit from the Credit.
85.       Foreign exchange allocated to eligible firms from the proceeds of
the proposed Credit would be additional to the amount that would otherwise
have been allocated to them without the Credit (Development Credit
Agreement,  Section  3.01  (b)(i)).   At negotiations it was agreed that
Government will have allocated, from sources other than this credit,
foreign exchange equal to at least 14.5Z of the import bill during any
given semester. This would ensure that the availability of resources under
the Credit does not free foreign exchange for use by inefficient
enterprises. Non-eligible enterprises will continue to receive foreign
exchange on the basis of the share they were allocated in 1984. IDA staff
would, within the course of this Credit's supervision, review with
Government officials the foreign exchange allocations to eligible



- 24 -
enterprises to insure that the proposed Credit's funds were being made
available to these on an additional basis.
86.        Participating Financial Intermediaries:  The Credit's resources
for importation of raw materials and spare parts would be channelled to the
eligible enterprises through the three coumercial banks, i.e. BNI, BT1 and
BFV.  To obtain these foreign exchange resources, clients of the three
banks would either pay in cash the FMG equivalent at the going rate of
exchange or, if necessary, they will obtain a loan in FMG to purchase the
foreign exchange at the going interest rate in Madagascar. In the case of
straight cash transactions, the banks would receive a commission of 0.5
percent of the amount of the transaction.   The commercial banks would
obtain the foreign exchange from the Central Bank which would be
responsible for overseeing this component's implementation and submitting
disbursement requests for this component to the Association.
87.        Implementation Mechanisms:  Industrial enterprises would, as at
present, submJit their requests for foreign exchange to the Ministry of
Industry, Energy and Mines.  If the enterprise is on the list of firms
eligible for IDA financing, the Ministry would obtain from the commercial
bank of the requesting enterprise confirmation that its financial situation
is sound. Once a firm is deemed eligible, it will be able to purchase the
foreign exchange allocated to it from its commercial bank which will, in
turn, obtain the foreign exchange from the Central Bank.
88.        In order to accelerate disbursements, a Revolving Fund would be
established in the Central Bank upon effectiveness of the Credit. At that
time, the Association would disburse an initial US$4.0 million into the
account. At the time of each replenishment request, the Central Bank would
submit a Statement of Expenditures on the basis of which the Fund would be
replenished.
Rehabilitation Component
89.         Due to the foreign exchange shortages of recent years, which
prevented a timely replacement of machinery, the equipment in many
industrial enterprises in Madagascar is either outmoded or has deteriorated
to such an extent that replacement has become a necessity.  This is the
case of some of the enterprises eligible to receive IDA financing under the
proposed Credit as well as of some other enterprises which, in order to be
able to achieve higher levels of capacity utilization, will need to replace
part of their equipment.  An amount of SDR 5 million would be allocated
under the Credit for this purpose (12.5 percent of the Credit). This would
cover about 25 percent of the estimated rehabilitation needs of the
enterprises expected to be declared eligible for spare parts and raw
materials financing during 1985.
90.       Beneficiary Enterprises:  Financing requests under this component
would be analyzed using the traditional DFC methodology, including the
calculation of an economic rate of return.   The enterprises that are



- 25 -
eligible to obtain foreign exchange for the importation of raw materials
and spare parts would be given priority for financial assistance under the
Credit to purchase equipment for rehabilitation purposes.
91.       Participating Financial Intermediary:  The IDA resources would be
channelled to the beneficiary enterprises through BNI which would receive a
SDR 5.0 line of credit to that end.  BNI is a well managed and sound
financial institution, created in 1977, as a result of the banking reform
that took place in 1976. Its objective is to promote the development of
industry and handicrafts through short, medium and long term loans, and
equity investments.  In FY80, BNI obtained a first IDA line of credit of
US$5.0 million which is almost entirely committed (para. 78).  Detailed
information on BNI's ownership, management, policies and operations is
presented as Annex IV.
92.       Terms and Conditions of the Credit to BINI:  The SDR 5.0 million
line cf credit would finance the foreign exchange component of fixed
capital investments for rehabilitation, in accordance with the following
terms and conditions.
a) Limit per Enterprise. To avoid the line of credit being used
by only a few enterprises, there would be a limit of US$500,000 per
enterprise (Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b)).
b) Onlending Rate to BNI. The IDA line of credit would be passed
on by the Government to BNIl, as subprojects are approved, at the interest
rate prevailing for World Bank loans at the time of Board approval of the
Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (c)).
c) BNI Lending Rate.   BNI would onlend the resources to its
clients at a rate which would be 2 percentage points higher than the rate
at whicb it would receive the funds from the Government. This spread is
adequate to permit BNI to cover its administrative costs, the risk element
and make a reasonable profit (Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (e)).
d) Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk would be
borne  by  all  medium-  and  large-scale  borrowers.    For  small-scale
enterprises (defined as those with assets not exceeding US$250,000), the
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk for a one percent per
annum fee (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (c)).
e) Free limit. The individual subloan free limit would be raised
to US$200,000 from the US$150,000 agreed in the first line of credit to BNI
in recognition of the general quality of BNI's appraisals. The aggregate
free limit would be US$2.0   million, representing 40 percent of this
component. With this free limit it is estimated that 10 to 15 subprojects
would require IDA review prior to approval. This is sufficient for the
purpose of adequate monitoring by IDA (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b)).
f) Economic Analysis of SubCredits. BNI will provide a complete
economic analysis, including the calculation of an economic rate of return
on all sub-loans above the free limit submitted to IDA for financing.



- 26 -
g) Amortization Schedules.   The credit to BNI would have a
flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization
schedule of BNI's subloans, none of which should exceed a maximum period of
15 years.
93.           Reporting Requirements.   BNI would be required to submit
quarterly reports which would include financial statements, resource
position, statement of arrears and notes on subprojects encountering
serious operational difficulties.   BNI would also be required to submit
annual audit reports in accordance with IDA guidelines for audits of DFCs,
prepared by qualified accountants approved by IDA along with the BNI annual
report.
Technical Assistance Component
94.        A technical assistance component of SDR 1.5 million is included
under the proposed Credit. While this component is a relatively small part
of the project (3.8 percent of the Credit), it is of critical importance as
it provides technical support for many of the policy reforms which
Madagascar  is  planning  to  introduce  in  the  coming  years.    More
specifically, the component is designed to support the Ministry of Industry
(MIEM) in its basic role of formulating policies and appraising industrial
projects.   A PPP for US$0.5 million was extended to carry out further
studies of projects already included in the public sector investment
program for industry (para. 57).  The MIEM, a recently created ministry,
has been entrusted by the Government with a mandate to initiate substantial
policy refoiis in the sector and has requested the following assistance to
achieve these objectives:
Ci) Improving data collection, processing and analysis at the
MIEM with the view of establishing an organized data base on the industrial
sector. The data base of the Ministry is at present poor, and is processed
only partially and slowly.   It is, therefore, proposed to finance the
services of an expert statistician who would assist Ministry staff in
coordinating, rationalizing and improving the collection of data on the
industrial sector and for organizing a system of data processing and
analysis.    The  total  estimated  cost  for  12 man-months  o'  technical
assistance, material and equipment, comes to US$0.25 million.
(ii) Reinforcing the Ministry's capability to analyze investment
projects.   Most of the recent projects in the PIP for industry were not
adequately studied and are in need of restructuring.   Well trained MIEM
staff would helu ensure that future public sector projects ir industry are
well prepared and properly appraised.  A start has been made through the
US$.5 million project Preparation Facility (PPF) of this Credit to analyze
the Public Investment Program in Industry. Consultants are working closely
with MIEM staff to analyze the investment program for industry. Further
action is, however, needed to ensure that the MIEN (responsible for
evaluating industrial Projects for inclusion in the national PIP) acquires
the  capability  to  appraise  projects.    Total  estimated  cost  of  this
component, including 52 man-months of technical assistance, is US$0.75
million, including the PPF.



- 27 -
(iii) Preparing an action program for export promotion and import
liberalization and reinforcing the Ministry's capability to analyze and
formulate policies in the area of trade and incentives. The policies which
the proposed Credit would support would make an important contribution to
the efficient development of the industrial sector. Additional measures
are needed, however, to increase the profitability of exports as well as to
rationalize the system of tariffs and import restrictions. To this end, an
analysis and a quantification of the effects of trade policy on the
industrial sector would be undertaken.  This could be the basis for the
formulation of an action program of tariff reform which the Government
plans to implement in the medium term and which could be supported by a
second Bank Group industrial Credit in Madagascar. The estimated cost is
US$0.25 million.
(iv) Finally, the Credit would assist the Ministry in upgrading
and refurbishing an existing building to serve as its headquarters.   It
currently shares an inadequate building with the Ministry of Commerce. The
building to be refurbished is located in the center of Antananarivo, and
preliminary estimates put the cost of works at US$0.45 million, of which
IDA would finance US$0.25 million.
E. Disbursement and Procurement
95.       The proceeds of SDR 33.7 million for raw materials would be made
available in two tranches and are expected to be fully disbursed within
eighteen months of credit effectiveness.  The first tranche would be for
SDR 17.2 million and would be available upon effectiveness.  The second
tranche (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of Development Credit Agreement) of SDR
16.5 should be available about nine months later, i.e., in early CY1986.
Disbursement of the second tranche would be conditional on: (i) decontrol
of all industrial prices with the exception of 31 products; (ii) agreement
on the size and composition of the 1986 industrial PIP; (iii) implementa-
tion of a satisfactory export incentive system; (iv) removal of import
prohibitions on a further 15 percent of the goods whose importation is
currently prohibited, (v) submission to the National Assembly of a new
investment code after consultation with IDA (vi) implementation of the EPI
system so that all exporters benefit from its advantages and (vii)
satisfactory progress in the implementation of industrial policies
described in the Government Statement on Industrial Policy (Schedule 4 of
Development Credit Agreement). The SDR 6.5 million for the rehabilitation
and technical assistance components would not be tranched.
96.        a)  Spare Parts and Raw Materials Component.  Disbursement and
procurement procedures should allow the rapid utilization of Credit
proceeds. To that end, a Revolving Fund would be established by IDA in the
Central  Bank.    An  initial  deposit  of  US$4.0  million  equivalent,
corresponding to the expected disbursement during a three-month period,
would be made by IDA to the Revolving Fund. Any time that half this amount
would have been used, an equivalent amount (US$2.0 million) would be
deposited by IDA in the Revolving Fund.  Enterprises can be expected to
procure their raw materials and spare parts from the most efficient sources
and to minimize costs.   However, contracts for goods costing more than
US$1.0 million would be procured on the basis of procedures that include
broad international tendering among suppliers from IDA's member countries



- 28 -
and from Switzerland and Taiwan and contracts would be awarded to the
lowest evaluated bidder. The Credit would disburse 100 percent of the CIF
costs of these imported raw materials and spare parts.
97.         b) Rehabilitation Component:  Procurement for the subprojects
financed under the Credit would be in accordance with the standard IDA
practice for development banks. This would generally involve competitive
quotations from at least three different suppliers (including foreign).
Given the relatively modest size of procurement packages, the scope of
international competitive bidding is limited.
98.        The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed on BNI
subloans as follows:
a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or services
for eligible subprojects;
b) 85 percent of the cost of previously imported equipment which
is purchased locally for the subprojects;
c) 70 percent of the cost of equipment produced in Madagascar
from previously imported components or raw materials; and
d) 55 percent of the cost in Malagasy Francs of construction work
included in subprojects and carried out by Malagasy
contractors.
99.       The rehabilitation component i   xpected to be fully ccommitted by
March 31, 1987 and to be fully disbursed by September 30, 1987.  In the
event that not all SDR 5.0 million are committed by March 31, 1987,
consideration will be given to transferring the remaining funds to finance
raw materials and spare parts.
100.      c) Technical Assistance Component:  Draft terms of reference for
the technical assistance component have been prepared and were discussed
during negotiations.   Consultants would be selected according to normal
procedures acceptable to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
Disbursement will cover 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services
and equipment. For the upgrading of the dIEM headquarters, disbursements
will cover 55 percent of costs while procurement will be carried out on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04 (a)).
101.      Disbursements under the three components will be fully documented
except that spare parts, raw materials and goods financed under the
rehabilitation component costing less than US$100,000 will be reimbursed on
the  basis  of  Statement  of  Expenditures.    These  statements  will  be
periodically reviewed by auditors (Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.01 (c)).
F. Expected Impact and Risks
102.      Through its support of the policy changes, summarized in paras.
53 to 74, the proposed Credit is expected to lead to increased efficiency
and an improved allocation of resources in the industrial sector.   By
relaxing the foreign exchange constraint which prevents efficient



- 29 -
enterprises from operating at full capacity, the Credit is also expected to
increase industrial output and exports. In addition to greater industrial
exports, the availability of basic goods should act as an incentive to
agricultural producers.   While the quantitative impact of the foreign
exchange assistance is difficult to estimate with accuracy, preliminary
estimates indicate that the utilization of the existing productive capacity
of eligible enterprises would increase from about 50 to about 80 percent,
on average. Beyond that, the increases in industrial output in response to
changes in incentives introduced in association with this Credit are
expected to materialize over time. The timing and the magnitude of these
increases are difficult to assess with precision. However, past dynamism
of the industrial sector shows that the capacity of economic agents to
react to opportunities is strong and that the overall impact of the
adjustment program will be positive. This Credit will also provide quick
disbursing foreign exchange with favorable maturities thereby assisting
Madagascar in dealing with its substantial foreign financiig needs.
103.      The risks of the adjustment program relate to the uncertainty of
assessing the length and the difficulty of the adjustment process and to
the related possible internal pressures to slow down the pace of reform or
even reverse it.   Past experience in Madagascar and in other countries
indicates that industrialists respond rapidly and significantly to changes
in prices and other incentives.  Given the extended period over which the
private sector has been in decline, the reaction may be less rapid and less
significant than experience would suggest. In such case the Government's
commitment to reform may waiver and those politically opposed might seek to
undermine the policy changes.   Several factors limit this risk.  First,
spurred on by the serious problems facing the economv and the industrial
sector, there has been a building of consensus within Madagascar on the
need for reform.   This, in turn, has opened the way for a deepening
dialogue between Malagasy authorities and Bank Group staff on industrial
policy issues.   In the wake of these developments, the Government has
adopted the carefully designed package of measures, which this Credit
supports and which enjoy widespread and growing acceptance within
Madagascar.   Second,  important and politically sensitive parts of the
policy package have already been implemented 'up-front-, demonstrating
Government's commitment to the reforms and its ability to execute these.
Third, the spare parts and raw materials component of the Credit will be
disbursed in two tranches of SDR 17.2 million and SDR 16.5 million with
release of each tranche linked to satisfactory implementation of subsequent
stages of the policy package.   Bank Group staff will closely monitor
progress in execution of the measures and will use the tranching mechanism
to reinforce the ongoing policy dialogue. Fourth and finally, the Credit
is expected to result in quick, tangible benefits--in the form of a rapid
increase in industrial capacity utilization, for example--thus adding
momentum and credibility to the operation and its pclicy package.
PART V - BANY GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
104.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$443.05 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.57
million. Since 1975, about 39 percent of Bank Group lending has been for



- 30 -
transport. 27 percent for agriculture, 14 percent for electric power and
petroleum, six percent for industry and water, four percent for technical
assistance and four percent for education, three percent for urban
development and three percent for cyclone rehabilitation.   IFC has three
investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear and fisheries. The first
investment was made in 1977 when IFC participated in financing the SOTEMA
textile mill. Recently SOTEMA encountered problems of catton allocation,
and transferring payments on its loan to IFC. But these problems appear to
have been satisfactorily resolved. This year IFC made its third investment
in the Nossi-B  fisheries project.  Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of September 30, 1984.
105.      Bank Group assistance to Madagzscar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. In infrastructure, four Credits have provided for
the  construction  of  all-weather  highway  links  between  the  island's
different   regions   and   three   Credits   for   road   maintenance  and
rehabilitation.  There have been Credits to improve Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina and to support the railway's modernization efforts.  Urban
infrastructure development has benefitted from a water supply and
sanitation Credit for the capital city of Antananarivo (US$20.5 million)
which was signed in May 1980.  In the social sectors, education has been
the major recipient of Bank assistance with two Credits totalling US$18.8
million. In addition, studies for urban development financed by the UNDP
with the Bank as Executing Agency have led to preparation of an urban
development project (US$12.8 million in FY84).  A first US$5 million DFC
Credit was made to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in
1980. In addition, a Credit of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit
project was signed in June  1981.   In November 1984, a US$15 million
Development Credit for cyclone damage rehabilitation has been signed with
the Government.
106.       Bank Group lending for agriculture has included three livestock
development projects, four irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project, a rice intensification project and a cotton
project.   Technical assistance support is also being provided under two
free-standing projects, one to study investment alternatives in the Plain
of Antananarivo area, and the other designed to strengthen institutional
development of key sector institutions and to support agricultural policy
reform.  The Bank has also appraised and is supervising a USS30 million
project aimed at intensifying rice production in the Highlands. Finally, a
cotton development project (US$17.8 million), approved in December 1983, is
now effective.
107.      Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention.
IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982.   A US$12.5 million Credit for petroleum exploration promotion is
supporting the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of
hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector.   A heavy oil
exploration Credit (Tsimiroro), in the amount of SDR 10.7 million was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982. Both Credits are
proceeding well.



- 31 -
108.      The program for Madagascar in the next three or four years will
concentrate increasingly on the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure
and on policy based sectorial lending to assist the economic recovery by
providing resources to increase capacity utilization.  It will be closely
linked with improvements to government policies formulated to bring about
supply responses from industry and agriculture.   At the same time this
program will assist the government in improving the management of the
economy through increased emphasis on training and technical support.
109.       With regard to rehabilitation, transport is the sector with,
perhaps, the most obvious needs. Improved transport facilities are crucial
to development of the economy, and in particular to increased agricultural
production:   the present state of the rural road network is the major
constraint to increasing the amount of agricultural products brought to
market.   Through out Fifth and Sixth Highway Credits and two railway
projects we have already joined with the government in this effort. A new
project for the railways will be appraised early in 1985, and a port
project has reached an advanced stage of study.   Further support for
rehabilitation of the main road network and of feeder roads is clearly a
matter of priority.    Cofinancing for  this  program will be  of  great
importance since the needs far surpass the ability of any one donor to meet
them.  In agriculture the program is similarly geared to rehabilitation.
Credits for the Lac Alaotra rice and the Cotton projects have been approved
in the past year and a half. Both are cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de
Coop ration Economique and are devoted to restoring rice and cotton
production.  A third project for irrigation rehabilitation, cofinanced by
the Caisse Centrale and the FED, is well advanced and should help to
rehabilitate the smaller irrigation networks, to assure their maintenance
and to strengthen government services in this sector.
110.     The program for Madagascar is being broadened, as demonstrated by
this industrial assistance Credit, to include sectoral lending in support
of current imports of a priority nature.  This process started witr  the
Sixth Highway project which included $10 million for spare parts for the
road transport fleet. It was linked to significant changes in policy with
regard to road tariffs ond a basic decision to rehabilitate the private
transport fleet. A Credit similar in design to this industrial assistance
credit is under preparation in the agricultural sector.  The enviroi.aent
for agriculture has steadily improved over the past two or three years and
as the government refines its action program for agriculture, including the
policy framework, sectorial financing will be provided. Discussions with
the government on this program are continuing in an active manner and could
lead to a formal appraisal in mid-1985.
I1l.      Besides the program of lending for rehabilitation and sectorial,
policy-based lending, the Bank's lending in the next two or three years is
likely to support important projects in education, training, and technical
assistance.   At the Government's request the dialogue on the education
sector has resumed. A project at the primary or secondary education level
is under consideration and a second Credit to support accounting and
management training is under preparation.   In technical assistance the
principal operation will be a continuation of the Agriculture Services
project which is providing support to the two ministries of agriculture.
An agricultural research project is also a distinct additional possibility.



- 32 -
112.      Few entirely new projects are under consideration at this time,
but these are in critical areas. The first is energy. A fuelvood project
is under preparation and further petroleum lending is a possibility,
depending on the outcome of current exploration. Another area of interest
is flood control and drainage in the Plain of Antananarivo, which is both
important to the development of this key area and is linked to the previous
IDA involvement in the urban development of Antananarivo. These projects
will require substantial cofinanciug by other donors.
113.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies.  Recent problems have centered on difficulties linked to the
country's economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange
and budget funds and institutional problems related above all to the
parastatal system.  Nevertheless, the Fourth Highway project is nearly
completed and construction under the Fifth Highaay project is well
advanced. Disbursement of the second railway project was suspended on June
25, 1982 pending Government action to correct major deficiencies affecting
the railway's finances. They were resumed in December 1982 and have been
virtually completed after the Government had implemented a satisfactory
financial recovery program. More recently, difficulties with covenanted
financial rates of return in the Water/Sanitation project have resulted in
an action program to improve the financial management of the state water
and power company, JIRAMA. Due to d.ificulties occasioned by a poor choice
of consultants and disorganized municipal finances, the sanitation
component of the project was very slow in starting.
114.       Experience with project implementation in agriculture has been
mixed, reflecting dificulties in the agriculture sector in general over the
last few years.  Performance under irrigation projects (for cotton and
rice) has been particularly disappointing, due to the following major
factors:   (i) the weakness of the parastatal managing institutions;
(ii) the poor incentive structure, both at scheme level and in the official
pricing systems; and (iii) inadequate arrangements for maintenace and cost
recovery on the schemes. Performance in the livestock and forestry sectors
has generally been satisfactory with both implementing agencies (FAFIFAMA
and FANALAMANGA, respectively) developing into effective institutions with
technically  competent and dedicated management.   Experience with the
agriculture technical assistance project has been positive, although
serious delays in approving contracts have been encountered. In general,
most projects have been adversely affected by the worsening economic
situation and particularly by shortages of foreign exchange.
115.      Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects have
been completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project
concluded that the project was generally successful. However, the Impact
Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded that earlier
assessments of project performance had been over-optimistic, and that the
actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report
No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded
that the project had contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit Report
No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Highway project was well



- 33 -
justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial cost overrums.
Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives
of the Tamatave Port project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out
that the institutional objective was not accomplished during project
implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUENTS AND AUTHORITY
116.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, and the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the National Bank for Industry, and
recommendation of the committee provided for in Article 5, Section I(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of tne Association are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
117.         Special conditions for the disbursement of the Credit are
described in Schedule }, para. 4 and Schedule 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement and in Annex V of this Report. The following conditions for
credit effectiveness will apply:   the  Government will remove import
prohibitions on five percent of the goods whose importation is currently
prohibited, agree on the size and content of the 1985 Public Investment
Program for industry, and hire consultai2ts for the preparation of the
export promotion and import liberalization action programs, eliminate
export  taxes  for all  manufactured  goods and  exonerate  exporters  of
manufactured goods from all indirect taxes on raw materials and spare parts
used as inputs for export production (paras. 60, 63 and 64).
118.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of Association.
PART VII - RECOMGENDATION
119.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 28, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 34  -                                    Anneic 
TA*LE 3h                                          b:E I of 5
_ID6QscRt              - SOeAL  TDOS 
HADGSC&A                            BE         CMS  EI UD ArRAD) la
"mm                 [MST UREGS ESTZAXE) lb
REUET      tOS tNCm  AmesC         .Mm.L  zNmW
194b    197a         srStaIELk    s511 OF SaiRa          AFICA S_ OF SAAA
TO-AL                               187.0      5S7_0      5W.0                   _
AGRCILTAL                           361.2      363.7      3705                   -                      -
w  MU  C        Coss)                  130l0      190l0      3.'0.0             2;9_1                  li1Z.9
(MOCL5M OF OIL ESQOTALERT)           2J70       60.0       41_0               626                   529.0
-oum     me WIZL STERUG
POPCLATIOKS.4D-YEAA (THOURSS)      5674.0    635_0        1990                   _
UNA POPUjATO  C= OF TOTAL)           10*6       L._1       t9_5               19_2                   29_J
PO#CLAT1ON PEWECTIGRS
POPULA2100 I YEAR 2000 (MML)                             16.1                  * 
STATtaIrART P1A21C  (MILL)                               541                   _
POPULATION MA-EIGN                                        1.9 
POCLATc.IO DESIrT
PEA SQ. 6l.                         9.3       11.6       15.3               32.5                   55.S
PEIA SQ. M- AGRt. IAS             5_.2       16.7       24.2               119.2                  ll_S
POPCLATIQ AGE ST CTURE CZ)
0-14 RS                           4L56       4 *2       43.9               45.6                    45.4
1544 MRS                           55.2      5359        52.9               51.5                   51.7
65 AIID AORE                        3.Z        3.3        3.1                2.9                    29
PIOLATIO  GT  RATE CR  )
TOTAL                               1_6        2.1        2_5                Z_.                    2.8
mAN                                 4.9        5.0        S.2                6.2                    5.2
CUDE BElt  RIATE (PER IDOUS)         46.7      45.2        46.7 QL.6                                 47.0
CGRIE DR1-M RATE (PE TIOS)            6.6      21.9        17.6               17.7                   15.2
CROSS RUROOCCTIOU RATE                3.0        3.0        3_2                3.2                    3.2
FAMIILY PEAUSd
ACET,RS. A. (TOUR)                    _         .-         __                  _                      -
(SES C? OF PARCED IDS)               -                     ..                  -
-___  AM  O&   W
tAE OF FOOD PRO. PER CAPT
(196-71-100)                         69.0      102.0       94.0               8s.s                   9L_6
PER CAPTA SUPPLY OF
CALORES (Z OF REImtMlS)           100.0      107.0      109_0               3664                   96.2
PFOMTSS (GRAM  PE  S)              570       59_0        SS_0               4-9                    56.7
OF IMICA ASIMAL AM1 FIILSE       17.0       17.0       M5.O IC            1t63                   L7.0
CHILD (ACES L-') DEATH RATE          45.0       32.0       23.0               Z3.8                   18.7
LIFE EXPECT_ AT BRIT  (YESAS)        37.2       42.2       47.9               48.4                   517
IOWAST T_ LATE (PER TN0C5)          177.0     149.0       116.O              117_5                  LOW7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (:0)
IOTAL                                __       11.0       25.0 Id            21S6                   35.6
-aa                                 -.       67-0         6-a 7OI           61.5                   54.1
RURAL                                __        1.0       14.0 1             14.2                   27.3
ACCESS TO EXCREA DISPAL
(Z OF POFUATTIO)
TOTAL                                          _.                           32.0
Aa                                           SB 68.0       _                 9.2
IRUltAL                              ..         __        9.0 Id           z2s..
POPBIAT1OS PER PHYSICIAN           6900.0   10170.0    10170.0 le          27477-8                119.1
POP. PEE NSMIC PERSON              3110.0 It  3350.0     3660.07o           3396Z                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             420.0      350.0     S50O to            1069.0                  966.9
URGA                              150.0 If  210.0       240.0 7T           395.2                  36-6.
RAIIL                             610.0 7F  480.0       520.0 7           3094.0                 4O0Z.I
ADMISSIONS PIE HOSPITAL MED                       ..             ..
AVEXAcE SIZE OF EOCSEDLC
.OTAL                                ..         8 a.Id..-
RSA?                                 ..        5.3   5_ 0I 7-
R?RAL                                ..        5_9        4.7 7d
AVERAGE SO. OF PERSOASROON
TOTAL                                ..         ..
uRSa?                                ..         ..
URAL                                 ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. : OF U       )ELLIM)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
RUR .... _L                          ..         ..



- 35 -                                             Anex    1
TA _*L                        312 Ot 5
RADICAR.                                  am S L DD   S
azl. mcs cuz  a3 I
ws,          I(MOST                 ZsrDL       r  lb
L%Ofb    196V-11   ESTh,AIIAk          SOUTH OF SWAM    AWrIC  S. Or SANWA
m
PLWAY   70TaL                      5z.0      88-0       100.01.             69.2                    91.0
MALE                     58.0       95S0         -                 78.6                   90.5
FEMALE                   45.0      61.0          .                 574.                   73Ms
SECMR? TO0TAL.                       4.0      11.0       1X40 Ic             13.1                    174
MALE                      5.0       13.0         . 17.6                                  23.7
FMALE                     3.0       9-0          ..                0.3                    14.8
UOC^IA-1L (: OF SECDAZD)              9.l        8.7                            7-2                     5.3
ftP1CL-ER In-
PrUALY                              70.0      65.0        SS.0 I*            46.1                    35.6
S5DAiY                              24.0      20.0        23.0 7r            23.9                    2
ADUZ LrrERCY tAXE Cj-.                          39.0        50.0 IC            44.3                    35.6
PASSEMM  CARSfTROGSARW PO0            4.0        6 8         7.1                3.s                    20.7
31o010   _ C    I     IUAS0 PO0      15.0       79.7       195.1               41.9                   100.
TV RECEUEcSyTBOUSAND POP               .         05          5.2                2.0                    155
SrEsrr c          rza
PER  r0A  POPCATZ                   7.7        78                             5.4                    17.2
CrMA NU A             ECA             0.5 /f    0.7           ..                1.4                     0.3
TO-AL LA FORC:E CYBOCS)           30460      3620.0      4634.0
FMALE (PERCE)                      46.9       46.1        44.5               36.5                    33.5
AGRICLElZE (PE3ZT)                 93.0       90.0 O7.0                      77.4                    57.1
r513k  (PEE)                        2.0        3.0         4.0                9.8                    17.4
rARXCX?AZ0J5 RIE C(PERCET)
OTamL                               55.6      53-.        504 4-L.0                                  36.3
HALLE                               60.7      56.8        56.0               52.1                    47.8
FEMaLE                              50.9      48.2        44.7               30.2                    25.1
EONIC DEPE50r RATIO                   0.8        0.9         0.9                1.2                     1.4
PEIC%X OF PUVAXE IWME
RECEIVEDSr8
SS5: WO HrUSEHOLDS                                   ..
HIGHEST' 20: OF  W-CET              =O-I R       -.                             ..
Loh=  =f  OF  oSEC                   _:-- j      .           ----
L1E  402 OF  RU       S             13.0 J.
ESfTMO  ABSOLIrE POVERTr DNC00
LVEL CUS FM CAPM)
Ua                                              ..       150.0 /c            16.3                   525.3
RAL                                             ..         6.0 Ic            90.8                   249.0
ESMATED RELATE POER2Y 1rU0M8
LEV  CUSS PEM CAPr.A)
CR                                              .        135.0 c            10.7                    47.4
RRAL                                             .        66.0 7;g           65.0                   N16.0
ESTIATED FoP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY ISCOF LEVIEL CZ)
1                                     ,,        ..        50.0 Ic            36.7
RURAL                                            .        50.0 77            65.4
MIr AILABL
MUr APPLICABLE
Jl O-TE S
In e grop averages for eac  indlmcao  we populrtiaa-wemlard ar1Ltic _me. COve?a  of co_urlaameg tde
indicator. depends on availablity of daft and i enot uiform.
I'  Unles othervis, noted, -Oa for 1960 refer to an  year betwr_ 1959 ad 1961; -dltf for 1970- 1            969 Mad
1971; agd dara for  bet lacoe  Estiute  between 1960 s   1982.
Ic  1977; 14 1975; 1l 1978; /f 1962; AL Population.
JD9 1964



a: a..                                                                                                      - -ss*ss-nl.tsl a   l. -   . flS
_._-  .na  i-a.  -  ^_                                                               45   _.555   al, _  -_ _n .-  ,Xs-     - _ i-is  as. ea _           a
r_.--.   .-          - _ _   _u -i.  An es ._            _ _
_.  f ...I          *   l. . -;   a.-    Ps _           5
655 - 55*5  *                                              Iws_ .   ,._  .        s    -      . _  , , _i   - a,s                       _s           .s
'  ss  -n-nl an  a. a .a-,  .s.n..t.. 5                  a.?......... sass,-   g _s ............. - Sas-  , *as   - 't-   s-i5             *_-
_.s-a -   ass-   *. :..-  IS.) las  -an    5a5   ss-lal   5ls                                       -  ps .5._ l * 5 5 ,., _me __,   _ii i *l _              l_
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~5    - 5*a_   5 i     _n5  i-v- a  *5    *--_ .  fi    * -tr 5
-J_           al fte   1 el-t- .r . 
- r..  e_ _  t- s*anssa    o   5   -a-s  *sn   swms  p= il..-   a-    _.   a-tt sa.s  sa                                      - lrt     -l  s  fl-s          555
_  ' *w    ,.  |_  -in.    .     _ f _a-_e ill.  qf.a.  - . si-..                  --i .l_ *- *_    _    -                                      ?5 a_   *-h
:o ~      ~          ~         ~         .~ *-             - -
'.51-ss                '                i_      05*1  _ .l *_.1   '_i  .sJ    5i   _p    t.-
*  -55a5    555. -  'si  0: . SI ;5               a-: '-'sIs *. a.s.ss.                   *i _.        _     . ...s  -  .........l.s...-...nsa  j *5 .51 5s_  _ s- *i5,_
sa 5-J        l,  -a                                                                                                               I  %. --:.  _   as-s .a  p.sl
W~~~~~-a                             5    _5      s _* _StS  a.~                   asZ - a_ v-  .s5*.            nas .5.. _  :-l ^t*1.     Is _-_  a-
*  -as. an)    i _o. ..ns.s.   s-mn P. .a-s an t -O    155.tsas                        s..s    t : ;              _                                     =1.5. a-a  . J .  M   .
C.-.;- o. i      -5     : .mI ,   s ,   s-s,    ...   .. .t *s..n                              s          . _a 1--Pr-                1 __.- - .  5 --I  d--
-e--r _ _ _ *i sin_s -    1    iss_ - *-        . w--  .l-_ _i-t a                           -vl  -s        I        --S a i s   dis 1   l                's
a_i55s     .a-s  a    t   lr  -_ s.sss-  55  _.*-as                                       _ns  -   s         i an  a_-r s1    _  -A  rs    s  -_ Ala  _-_
-t _~~~~~~~~.5  l.n a  _ts_ s                                             .sl   -   s ass.  .i.-s  -v s.p  -t _,.   5.san      si-i  .51_-
' ~ ~ ~ 41 tZ      :l    _                                 41           X _1                      1
*_i _*slsli..   . n.a5-               __ *s    a*siss i  ra                                                --s..       a- fs.  'sni..  -is   pin.  *a-  
tsnsas.55-%5    n. 5. .5^s* .s5  - In-s-s  f5.35                        v                 i, als  01  _.1?  -. *sa-is  a. o.nas.l                    a  *a
an                                                                                                               ......s      .n0lSia  .ssps  li- Wa   is.,a i  a   ss      .s5
23-    W  -- p  -las   *i.555           -St3551                                        5   isi*5S5e  55m515511                           sate         s
s-wa-, -n .sn5sa. n a. s-      .si                nl      .     -5         p
ana- '-am   '5s   '-      'tiise   - _t - ._s .-_ _.__ __ !s-X                            as  _..  -'  _~ .   a- 5'.Asi ~i5i  _1S. _Ia  _as _
s-nba  ni                  _                                ,                               5 _5o~ .Z _ ^_A _ _ _  -   a
_* ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    .i sla5.~     nsa 5. ..lls -s5.                                         *5 l -s    - - -  -  _aat
a  ama   ssa. .5    ..s  -i.-ial 55.5   _sa-p5    .5-ts.                       -Ss  *oo..       15-   a  5?ui         ................    , _- _51   na-, .: ,a
iss _ sail as  -l _ .s5-, as 5..15                                                       si..45 i.In                       l-.a   .sts    _-
a-ss..iass   -_ 5-55  *ast-, ssADs t.a  _n    s- -s ,.                                                                                               i a        _s
sass.  -Is           s-                                                                                                _'M 'D,: O_I             t a_-
*ssjs-    J_  _t 3. _n-an. __w_     .5. t        5_   s-aa _   i                 - ---s  ?.53.si             as LS'e   *-I           5J     l   a_
_a~       5       s_ _ _ ...-l.  *l-tss        e    As  .5      r_as                    In sa   - st.5.  -1 ;~   Ia    5r_ a.5..5.. ................... a   - S ms~ ~ la ~-
st  _tt   *_ t-la  --a                    .               1-  - ar _ __ si-s-  f
*an _ias.s -       La .--  - l-a--1 --s- --------i- ---
IN--~~~~~ -                          rv-_ 
sn   ,,oi..ssl-. r, .a.i                  i         ,i.     s-s-Sin                                                                                    -in
-    _?-~ _-na-lids. 55           5 -   5155  i5      .3                                a.-      _5  -r                       -l r-    -f t   Al- ~   - S
~.5 ala     a  l-sI..-  55l-iss-  oas. As).ass-i si-                  ssif-ss- so.5           ai          al 35i - 8---
<-  ta_ _- _ _ _D_ @| ~-                                  a                                            -ot-@4_~_-_-__= 
-s-is.,- Aa-1ia-        5  an  In    5      ....3                  at     -                 .-.ft.a
n_ _o   9t               _                                                                   -tat ' q ~ t l ~ ~ o_       Xt__
a s-ass. a1 . ....                          .. s a      s-   .. *-ss. sal a *s* sa -.sas_
1_~~~~~~~uan-                                                                        .s. ,s.a  _ _ iC * 0.n -n ths.155-Ala _
_ 515        a    5 5n     csh  - s v ssaan .me ta..i                                 ana- in.a                 -  a     -(..aIss.9s.b-
~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        *1-04*  a  ts-0.I    ls~s a-s   a-t  __S_ 
a    s     .s             ass  _ _nss 5.3    aa                a   5aa                 -.1  a-_   . a-_    ..   _n  - ,as _  sea  s 
0~~~~5 5    _s.   a-_ rl                              -  -_ _l                           -i  :_ *u       s   _  a-_a*  a *D.*  Ini|  '_sa  a   _
lassa  _1 s  -             S n-s    a-sasn   ls   .5 3.                                                            sin sat>   a 51  _i5    Aa_
-         * .ss        a   s   a-       _  ** :  -_ 'n.s. sns                               *:-  ss  a  o-sr *saifs
55        s-ss    SC.l5  a-a  _    .5           .  l. 5   _5a5                         A* cganaa  *51  3-- l           *- As5 .      - *.a-etS z.v. -_-
_._I_ * in* _ Ss  , *a       _a_ s.  -_-j ss.n a- 5.155aas                                                 _.                                           ..s-mas
-a iw-a  isi-sn  .s s-a  a- als.                              -- snL                                                                      t_ll  _s s    Sn .-5a.  5    sss   a as
__s_ _sa ,__01 as-  i       n..a....................... -i-aa  I--i  usa  ,ln                  'ss'                                  a   ............. - ass.  slssba
15             i55    -  . sad as a-               rl  a  s- _ni                               a-t       _C   .ia   *ss         _     n -.         .
at-s        51 *!s-5-a~ -5?s-*  s  In.s- laf        a..                           5.. .-s_ts    a   at  a- a-s-  sas           _ss   -
_~~~~~~~~~15  -_is    P5-ga                                              Ohs _5115.-.o s-a- Ala   ss_a  __ _.    -_s_.  ala   .a_- __ X s _
_ *_ __ _. _ ~~~~~sa_  .                                                   ta_ _s _-i   __-s_-0 . -i   _s 52 l    - _  slat _a _ _-a
~1.s5s.3   511    .a-j a  v:S   1s  q                      -.a          s-- an  .rs.sa-s-                  oA-a  a- sJ.n
_sas  -   ssa   ss  51 As _nas, nss a               w   _sl-                _           .  s-_   _- -- sL,..   . a    S                  ss         -sy
l.as  a_  -r  _*is  _ s            . *5. s.._swz_ass  -.naasu ag a.a        _ l~            s_-a- _a  is-  am         tSsss _alss  .
5,55_:_ sCas.                     'ts                -.asAslsJa5  asa- 
a   nsa r.5.   e_- -.I-                            _Aasa.    ins.*~asIsla-ssa   st.                                                            -.   sl
It E ll.ia                                 .I.5   s             sia                       s   .     5as   -as-  s1i   ~5                   alls 



AV  I
-37 --j  4d 5E!
CtP          Dz ! s            2W.7           1=        O.I               0.
t'e:sxf-~~~~~~~.6S-                   93566.3 6                  04 
cwom                  -17m        ~~~~~      ~~13-  -.1      -4.2
Oe   AC== :!=               -33CJ3        -U.6       _        _
Ets  aEGa!.S                     M55.          UoS14            2.8      -9.5
T=M= of  Iqs             M~~s09        17.9           -2.3      -,-.0
.oo -    EN !%;e3
4Ft-' lSwI ~~~~~~U5.1 L    WY  Z                   95     S&&    I     Z       46.0
,                       ~      ~      ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~41  64.  IV  2.  \3.   55n7.
secwLces   4.          ~~US6.2         41.0       357      ,-.7     3.z33.     3
Sh:at~~~~~~~~~~1. >'                               51      1-2     7-113.      .LL9
Jv.           ;a0Xo     4630    YJO          6iZ.9     A.
G=  G:vr.i-
Ck=M    ?Ae-C              2:141.            136    .146    11.
Deff~~~~~~~--a4c 0x.6                      -L.8    -0.
C.vl=.--B                   -493             3-3    L3. -     'I
Tom.8- Lxe; (:t:;i         I7.1             1Lb      5.2      IA
!":8    l9         I M  L-       I -       M3
MM     w  ua-4x               14.QV0  1D  a36.0  -MZs3  3J6.r    .1.5
2idc       m        sx:S s ' 49.3    99           1-16.    -36.    2E31J    MB
;h:jc Cm!- W =ao-erje-se
aed ~    5 ;--IV=                    2ZL- O.0 0   15DsS   164J    iW.O    Z29.5
c~~r ;nm k:be=)
M=S sK Q;aV. varj- as  o f a;     29.3    29.1  Y .9    3DJ         V;7
GCP P.-I'  D&I=r ('I9;O -M NWj     .7S  W1J.    25.6   31'.        Q3.09    !.M.3
CP Dd! SlF~~~~~~~~6.              11.4    i;    15.2  ZS2            :L.a m
'=  C .tad- =1 P=uzz Jw- ,        80    U= I 1.            33r      L3.7       I.
3adc Ctwlt  5 =am e=f Cse
a!  pttwrte sa=                5.Z    I9.8    ZSD       9.3:    2.L       '6.'
AU cw-,v=!cm~~ :g -/to? dc:.-- 1-  abe u-a  -% ai-aecz
per.d  .wzd
M~c: 9  prIca !or f57-ard 192 r--ce  o  18-3
3t.aai Lfaox for L .8m
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'A ye.i 



- 38-                                     ANNEX  I
page 5 of 5
M     TAGASC  - TRAME PAYMEff AND CAPITAL FLOIIS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                CHANDISE EXPORTS (VERAGE 1980-83)
1981   1962  1983                                  t6SS Min.    %
(USS Mil  Ion)
Cbffee                        132.8     41.3
Vanil Is                      40.7      12.7
Cloves                        47.8      14.9
Fishing products              18.7       5.8
BEPorts of Ouods & NF,S,  391.6 378.6  363.5   Maet products                      7.1      2.2
Imorts of Gods & N.F.S.  734.6  651.7  580.3   Textile                          9.9       3.1
Ptrolei  products              11.4      3.5
Resource Bal              -343.0 -273.1 -216.8   Mineral products                13.7      4.2
Other cam9dities              39.5      12.3
Total                   321.6    100.0
Investmt Incom, Not       -88.3  -94.6  -106.3
Privalt Transfers, Net       4,0  -1.4   -1.2   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEBER 31, 1982 4
USS Min.
Current Account Balance   -427.3 -369.1  -324.3
Public Debt. Incl. guaranteed    1,655.9
Officlal tnrequested                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt    _
Transfers                 62.6  72Z5   63.8   Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1,655.9
Net NLT Borrowing:         323.9  189.0   51.5   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984  f
DisburseenBts            326.8  209.9  200.6
Aiorlization             -78.8 -110.4 -183.9
Debt Relief               75.9  89.5   34.8   Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed   38.0 5/ &
Other Capital (not) 3       50.7  116.41          IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1984
3 209.0                          USs mI I ion
Change in Reseves           -9.9  -8.6)                                IBRD   IDA
Cincreas.
Outstanding &
Disbursed         29.50 231.36
RATE OF EXCHANGE             1981   1982  1983  Undisbursed                  145,41
Outstanding incl.
USSI.00 - PAG              271.73  350,0 430,45   Undisbursed         29.50 376.77
FNG   1 - USS              0.0037  0.0029 0.0023
I/ Provisional estimates.                            Debt service payments as % of exports of goods
2J Includes net IMF crodit, state and private          and services.
short-torm capital, arrears and consolidated    i Paris Club agreed to reschedule about S120
arrears, and errors and omissions,                 million In March 1984; London Club, $195
million in May 1984.
5/ After effects of debt rescheduling arrange-
ments under Parts Club.
6/ Provisional data will be revised when updated
debt data are aval able.
Dec. 1984



- 39                          ANNEX  11
page I of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984) I/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
CUSS Million)----
Ton Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                             32.57  112.95        --
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Education 11                      14.00 2/  1.14
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                43.00 3/  5.82
CR  881-NAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture             12.00     2.85
CR  903-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways 11                       13.00     0.23
CR  938-NAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                        24.00     5.05
CR  977-NAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - SNI              5.00     1.81
CR 1002-NAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                  20.50    15.87
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration             12.50     2.92
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM            11.50     7.58
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.         2.30     1.20
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit              11.50     5.91
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry 11                       20.00    10.70
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock It              15.00    11.27
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions           5.70     2.69
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                  11.50      5.00
CR.1537-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alaotra                       18.00    15.69
CR.1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                     25.00    22.38
CR.Fo04-MAG  1983   Madagascar Highways VI                        20.00    18.21
CR.1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar Cotton Development                  7.90     7.43
CR.F008-MAG  1983   -------                                       9.20     8.29
CR.F1497-MAG 1983   Madagascar Urban4/                            12.80    12.80
TOTAL                               32.57  428.055/ 164.84
of which has been repaid           3.61    2.55
TOTAL now outstanding               28.96  425.50
Amount sold
of which has been repaid             --    6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    28.96  4!9.;O
TOTAL undisbursed                                      164.84
1/ The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/tDA-financed projects In execution, which Is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31,
2/ Including a Norwegian grart participation of USS7.0 million.
3/ Including a supplemental credit of USS10.0 million of 1980.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ CR1526-OMAG, Cyclone Rehabilitation Project for SDR 14.8 million has been
signed on December 11, 1984
December 1984



- 40 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31. 1984)
Loan     Equity      Total
--   (USS Hillion)       -
1977   Sotema - Textile Mi.l at Majunga             11.00      0.29      11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                                1.25       -         1.25
1983   Pecheries de Nossi-B4                         2.57      0.13       2.70
15.24



ANNEX III
REPOBUKA OEOCKRAI"KA MALAOASY           - 41 -                      page 1 of 8
uu*umWm-TO-mIwuftu-m b                     Antanamrnvo, to  30 Novembre 1984
MINISTERE DE LINDUSTRPIE
DE LENERGIE_ET DES MINES
Le Minit
Monsieur le President,
J'ai Ithonneur de vous faire parvenir ci-Joint une declaration
de politique qui resume les actions et les intentions du gouvernement
malgache en ce qui concerne sa politique de Developpement Industriel.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Pr6s,dent, 2'expression de ma
haute consideration-
-~ r -         (-~1-- -
Tantely Andrianarivo
Ministre de l'Irdustrie, de 1'Energie
et des M.rzes
Mr. A.W. Clausen
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 8
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Statzment on Industrial Policy and Goals
(Translation of the original in French)
Dear Mr. Clausen:
PURPOSE
This Statement defines the industrial development goals being
pursued by the Malagasy Government and describes a number of measures that
:h, Government has put or intends to put into effect.
GENERAL SITUATION
The Malagasy economy has for several years faced severe economic
and financial difficulties. The country's exchange reserves have dwindled
and external payments have fallen into arrears. Public Sector deficits
have been accompanied by high inflation. The scarcity of foreign exchange
has led to substantial reductions in imports and in the level of
maintenance of productive capital. As a result, under-utilization of
production capacity has worsened steadily, production has fallen, and
employment has stagnated. The difficult state of the economy can be
summarized by the GNP decline of 9 percent in 1981, 2 percent in 1982, and
2 to 3 percent in 1983.
STABILIZATION AND RECOVERY PROGRAMS
The stabilization and economic recovery efforts undertaken by the
Malagasy Government in the last few years have already borne fruit: over
the period 1981 to 1983 the public finances deficit has been reduced from
14.6 percent of GDP to 7 percent and the trade balance deficit from SDR 159
million to SDR 84 million. Policies designed to restore financial
equilibrium must be pursued, however, in such a way as to create a
favorable climate for the resumption of economic growth. To sustain our
policy of financial recovery and avoid the risk of a prolonged decline in
production, we have sought help and assistance from the international
community. On December 11, 1983, we signed a stand-by agreement with the
International Monetary Fund. On March 29, 1984, the Paris Club agreed to
reschedule our external debt due in 1983 and 1984 in the amount of FMG 182
billion. The London Club has also defined the terms of refinancing our
debt to commercial lenders. Finally, on April 6, 1984, the suppliers of
funds granted us program assistance of some SDR 53 million. Against this
background the Government is asking the International Development
Association to grant a credit to the industrial sector to support the
recovery and the development of an efficient industrial sector.



_ 43 -                             ANNEX III
Page 3 of 8
The Stabilization Program
In order to improve the country"s financial situation, we have
already taken a number of measures:
- personnel expenditures in the public sector have been limited
by placing a ceiling on annual recruitment and by holding down
wage increases;
- subsidies have been reduced and in some cases abolished
(fertilizer, rice, farm equipment);
- capital expenditures have been reviewed to arrive at a more
rational public investment program;
- tighter controls of public expenditures have been instituted;
and
- fiscal revenue collection has been improved.
The Government has also decided to enhance management efficiency
in the public and semi-public sectors by restructuring a number of
industrial, agricultural and commercial enterprises. As part of this
process we have taken the painful decision to abolish some 5,000 jobs
following liquidation and/or restructuring of public-sector companies. In
addition, the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture has been reduced by some
3,000 people in 1983.
Since mid-1982 we have pursued a flexible exchange rate policy
reflected in depreciations of the Malagasy franc of 8 percent in July 1983,
10.5 percent in October 1983 and 15 percent in March 1984. The cumulative
effect of these adjustments has been that the Malagasy franc has been
devalued by 22 percent in real terms since mid-1982.  In addition to the
series of discrete devaluations, the Goverament instituted a more
aggressive exchange rate policy of continuous adjustment with a view to
ensuring the international competitiveness of the economy. Imports were
cut by 30 percent in 1981, 5 percent in 1982 and 10 percent in 1983.
Finally, through monetary austerity measures such as raising of the
interest rate and imposition of a strict ceiling on credit, we have
succeeded in lowering the domestic inflation rate from 30 percent in 1982
to 22 percent in 1983.
The Recovery Program
In the case of agriculture, in early 1983 we decided to
strengthen the stabilization program through measures designed to
revitalize the economy by freeing the marketing of a number of products and
relaxing or abolishing price controls. In May 1983 private dealers were
authorized to trade in rice with the exception of the two reserved areas of



- 44 -                            ANNEX III
Page 4 of 8
Lac Alaotra and Fifabe. It was also decided to allow the price of rice to
fluctuate between a floor price and a ceiling price. The price of paddy
was increased by 15 percent and the price of rice to the consumer by 29
percent in 1984. Since 1982, the cumulative increase in the consumer price
of rice has thus amounted to 140 percent.
During February 1984 we took a number of supplementary measures
to promote agricultural production and to increase the supply of food
products:
- extension of free competition in agric-iltural produce
collection, particularly groundnuts and legumes;
- public auction of part of the Lac Alaotra rice harvest;
- ending of State intervention in the setting of cotton prices;
Until domestic production is sufficient to satisfy the country's
needs we shall have to continue to import rice. However, the Government
has decided to reduce the volume of rice imports substantially: we
anticipate that only 114,000 metric tons of rice will be imported in 1984,
against 183,000 in 1983 and 356,000 in 1982. Moreover, we have
discontinued the consumer subsidy for imported rice.
With regard to other agricultural products, the Government has
selectively raised producer prices to promote the production of potential
export or import-substitution products. Thus, the prices of coffee, cotton
and pepper have been raised while that of cloves has been left unchanged.
In order to reduce budgetary outlays and to establish a realistic
fertilizer price, we have progressively reduced subsidies and have thus
raised its price per kilo by 30 FMG in 1981 and by 140 FMG in 1983.
To encourage farm production, the Government has embarked on a
process of giving, wherever necessary, security of tenure to many
individual farmers through accelerated award of land titles in certain
irrigated areas. In this way ownership titles have been distributed in the
project areas supervised by SOMALAC and in that of FIFABE, Madagascar's
second largest holder of rice stocks. In addition, the Government has
adopted the realistic approach of granting concessions to private companies
to operate a number of state farms and nurseries under lease or management
contracts or agreements.
In the case of industry, the Government has adopted the objective
of developing a competitive and efficient industrial sector in the context
of meeting the needs of the local population, particularl7 in rural areas,
developing exports and promoting intra-sectoral linkages. In order to
attain this objective a series of measures are being taken progressively.



- 45 -                          ANNEX III
Page 5 of 8
In the first phase, the procedure for approving the prices of
industrial goods has been simplified, aud the time limit after which a
price filed for approval can be freely applied if no response is received
from the administration has been reduced to one month. In addition price
control is being applied with a view to establishing realistic prices.
Thus during recent months a number of prices of industrial products have
been raised significantly; examples are paper (40 percent) and sugar (50
percent).
The most efficient enterprises have been given priority in
foreign exchange allocation for inputs and spare parts. Again with the
object of eliminating the constraints deriving from delay in allocating
foreign exchange for the importation of raw materials and spare parts and
lack of availability of foreign exchange at the Central Bank at the time
exporters need it, the Government has introduced the 'EPI (Exports, Parts,
Inputs) Accounts." Thus, exporting enterprises can have assured access to
part of their foreign exchange receipts in order to satisty their needs in
imported raw materials and spare parts. In addition, exporting firms have
been given priority in the annual allocation of foreign exchange for spare
parts and raw materials, so that they can continue production without
interruption and are able to honor their export contracts. These firms
were allocated their foreign exchange in the first few weeks of 1984 and,
no matter how scarce foreign exchange turns out to be, exporters will
generally be assured of covering their entire needs.
In order to address the issue of enterprise efficiency and
competitiveness, a series of measures have been decided, particularly with
respect to public enterprises. The Government has decided to close down a
number of state owned enterprises suffering from chronic problems, such as
SNHU (oil, rice and soap), SNA (matches), and SVMACAM (marble). At the
same time a staff reduction has been decided for a dozen enterprises in
which the state has a majority holding. About 2,000 jobs (included in the
5,000 total mentioned earlier), or 20 percent of the original labor force
of these enterprises, have been eliminated. The Government has further
decided, in order to reduce the burden in the Public Investment Program and
in the interest of enhanced efuiciency, to seek participation by domestic
or foreign operators in both the capital and the management of certain
companies in which the State has a majority holding. We are currently
exploring such possibilities for a number of enterprises, including the
following:



-46 -                             AN!  I
Page 6 of 8
. TANKU          3                          (aluminum utensils)
. LAIZE                                     (food preserves)
. FTIN                at present            (jute bags)
) 00 perepnt
. SOJU.FA        )   state-owned           (fruit juices, vinegar)
. SN             )                          (matches)
* SONAGEL        )                          (gelatine)
. MAAADECOR.   (99 percent state-owned)   (wood and furniture)
. FORAGE MNrIER (at present a government department)
A management leasing contract was signed recently with foreign
entrepreneurs to operate the company HODIMA (tanning), and it is planned to
take simil-r action for other companies. For faclities operated directly
by the finistries (state farms, nurseries) leasing or management contracts
or agreements have been concluded under which private companies are
r.esponsible for operating them and for accomplishing the economic
obJectives agreed upon between them and the State.
As a natural corollary to these export incentives, the Government
has decided to simplify the administrative formalities. Thus:
-  for traditional exporters, renewal of the exporter's letter of
authorization is automatic, and the export permit is
abolished. However, the administration reserves the right to
Carry out spot checks a posteriori;
- new exporters, and existing ones who wish to export new
products, mast obtain prior authorization for their first
export deal;
- the exporter's authorization to export is valid for all
manufactured products, not just one as was previously the
case.
ACTION PROGRAM
Despite the positive results of the measures already taken and
their favorable reception by industrialists, we are conscious of the fact
that recovery will only be achieved through vigorous measures which will
have a longer term impact. It is in the medium term, however, that the
foundation of this recovery will be laid and we are conscious of the need
to adopt a more dynamic program. We have, therefore, decided to supplement



47 -                               ANNEX III
Page 7 of 8
the actions described above by implementing a series of additional -easures
which are presented in greater detail below.
(a) Price Decontrol
We have decided to free the prices of all but 31 manufactured
products. As of now, price control has been lifted for a number of
manuafactured products representing about 35Z of industrial value added. So
far as possible, the prices of controlled products will be set at realistic
levels. The object is to avoid an efficient enterprise having to set its
prices below production cost. Our ultimate objective is to remove price
controls on the maximum possible number of products.
(b) Export Promotion
Export promotion has a key role in the long-range recovery and
the development of Madagascar's industry. We are convinced that in
giving a more important role to exports, it will be possible to alleviate
the country's foreign exchange problems. Thus, the Government has decided
to abolish expert duties on all manufactured products, to exempt exporters
from all indirect taxes on inputs used to manufacture export products or
togrant them a system of temporary admission, to apply the EPI Account
system t-o all exporters of manufactured goods, and to install a centralized
system to facilitate export procedures in the Ministry of Commerce. In
addition, the Government has decided to prepare and implement a program of
actions for the development of exports of manufactured goods.
Cc) Import Prohibitions
The Government's policy up to now has been to foster import
substitution and therefore to impose quantitative restrictions and import
prohibitions.
The Government h-is decided to reduce the list of prohibited
products. The list of products affected by this measure is currently under
study. The Government intends to reduce the number of products by about 5
percent immediately and by another 15 percent later on. The Government
undertakes to issue import licences and to make available to importers the
necessary foreign exchange for the import of these goods.
(d) Public Industrial Investment Program
With a view to enhancing efficiency and competitiveness, the
Government has decided to give priority to rehabilitation of existing
industries over new projects. In any case, no investment project will be
undertaken until a detailed study establishes its viability. In addition,



- 48 -                             ANNEX III
Page 8 of 8
the capability of the Ministry of Industry to evaluate projects will be
reinforced. The Government has also decided to carry out studies of the
ongoing projects in order to Improve their viability. The Government will
determine, in consultation with the World Bank Group, the amounts of the
public industrial investment programs for 1985 and 1986.
AU industrial public investments in excess of US$4 million will
be subject to consultation between the Government and the World Bank before
they are entered in the investment program.
(e) Investment Code
Economic recovery cannot be achieved without productive
investments. The Government has therefore decided to provide a more
favorable climate to private investors. To facilitate investment, both
foreign and domestic, and in particular to make granting of the advantages
for priority investments automatic to some degree, the Government has
decided to revise the Investment Code. A study has been undertaken with
European Development Fund assistance, and the first draft of the new Code
is currently being reviewed by the authorities. In this context, the
Government will continue to apply flexibly the Charter of socialist
enterprises-



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page I of 5
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRIAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
NOTE ON THE NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRY
1.        Background and Objectives. BNI was created in January 1977 as a
result of the banking reform that took place in 1976. It then assumed the
term loans and equity portfolio of the former Banque Nationale de
DEveloppement (BN}) in the industrial sector, and the industrial loan
portfolio of the former Banque pour le Commerce et l'Industrie de
Madagascar (BCDH), a commercial bank nationalized in 1976. BNI has primary
responsibility for promoting the development of industry and handicraft
through short, medium and long term loans, and equity investment.
2.        Ownership, Board.  BNI has a share capital of FMG 2 billion,
owned by the State (85 percent), the Central Bank (10 percent) and the
Social Security Fund (5 percent).  BNI's Board is chaired by the Minister
of Finance and includes the Director General of the Central Bank and of the
Finance Ministry. The Board does not hold regular meetings but convenes on
an ad hoc basis to examine projects or policy matters. BNI's General
Manager has the authority to approve without consultation with the Board
secured loans up to FMG 100 million, unsecured loans up to FEG 20 million
and equity investments up to FMG 20 miliion per investment.
3.        Management, Organization and Staffing.  BNI's General Manager is
a Malagasy national, who, formerly, was the head of the Banque Nationale de
D-eveloppement (Bil). He has two deputies, one of whom was also with BEN
while the other was with BCIH. Together, they constitute a competent and
experienced team, which has steered BNI well in a difficult economic
environment.  BNI has nine departments which reflect its dual role as a
development and a commercial bank, and several branches throughout the
country. It has a staff of about 1,100 persons.
4.        Operating Policies.  BINI policies are spelled out in a statement
of policies that was discussed with IDA and approved by BNI's Board of
Directors in 1980.  It spells out that BI 's objectives are to assist in
the development of the industrial and handicraft sectors by financing
projects that are financially and economically sound. It also indicates
that (i) BNI will not normally finance wore than 75 percent of a project's
total cost; (1i) its long-term debt to equity ratio shall not exceed 4 to 1
and (iii) its total commitment to one particular enterprise shall not
normally exceed 25 percent of BNI's equity. Its policy statement is
satisfactory.
Procedures
5.    (a) Appraisal.   BNI appraisal reports put, in general, a great deal
of emphasis on the financial aspects of investment proposals. Although the
economic merits of projects are also analyzed, this analysis tends to be



- 50 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
less comprehensive than the financial reviews. In general, there is also a
need for the reports to express more clearly and pointedly the opinion of
BNI on the merits of the projects.
(b) Supervision. BNI supervision procedures were discussed and
agreed upon with WDA in the context of the first line of credit (Credit
977-MAG for USS5 million). BNI supervises projects which it finances
mainly through a monitoring of the current accounts of its clients. This
approach has proven satisfactory, if judged by the fact that, at the end of
1983, arrears of more than three months amounted to 19 percent of BNI's
medium- and long-term portfolio which is very low relative to other
development banks in Eastern Africa.
(c) Procurement. BNI requires its clients to obtain several pro-
forma invoices which, whenever necessary, it helps its clients to determine
the most attractive offer. While at the time of the approval of the first
IDA credit, BNI did not have adequate technical staff to assist in the
review of proposals, and had to rely on outside expertise, it has now
recruited a core of technicians who are capable of performing that function
adequately.
5d) Disbursements.  These are made against presentation of invoices.
BNI starts disbursements on its loans only after the promoter has used his
own resources.  Long-term loans are utilized first, followed by medium-term
loans. BNI's disbursement procedures are adequate.
6.        Interest rates.  BNI presently charges interest rates of 13.75
percent per annum on medium term loans that can be rediscounted at the
Central Bank and 15.75 percent per annum on loans that are
non-rediscountable. On long-term loans, it charges an interest rate of
15.5 percent for both rediscountable and non-rediscountable loans. In
addition, BNI charges an annual commission that varies between 0.63 percent
and 1.50 percent. As it applies to the amounts outstanding during the
whole life of the loan, it is in 'Lact a supplement to the interest rate.
Finally, BNI passes the foreign exchange risk to all medium- and
large-scale borrowers.
7.        Audit.  The annual audits of BNI accounts are conducted by a
qualified CPA Malagasy firm. They are, in general, well prepared and
provide an accurate picture of BNI's situation. They are expected to be
sent to IDA within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year. The last two
audits were not submitted within the agreed upon time limit because BNI was
in the process of establishing a computer-based management information
system. This task has now been completed and future audits will be
submitted on time.
8.        Operations.  In 1977 which was its first year of operations, BNI
approved term loans that amounted to only FMG 0.4 billion and equity
investments totalling FMG 0.2 billion. This relatively low level of
approvals was due to the changes and the restructuring involved in the



- 51 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
creation of BNI. However, in the following years, operatioas increased
rapidly: in 1978 term loan approvals totalled FMG 2.9 billion and equity
investments FMG 0.5 billion; in 1979, loans increased further to FMG 4.1
billion while equity investments amounted to FHG 0.4 billion.
9.        A peak was reached in 1980 when BNI term loan approvals reached
FMG 8.2 billion. In recent years, with the deepening of the economic
crisis, the amount of lending has decreased considerably. It came to FMG
3.8 billion in 1981, FMG 4.6 billion in 1982 and only 0.9 billion in 1983.
During this period, equity investments were as follows: FMG 614 million in
1981, 606 million in 1982 and 339 million in 1983.
10.       As of the end of 1983, BNI had approved term loans totalling
about FMG 24 billion of which FMG 13 billion (54 percent of total) was for
the manufacturing sector, FMG 3.9 billion (16 percent) for the petroleum
sector, FMG 3.9 billion (16 percent) for water and electricity, FMG 1.9
billion (8 percent) for transport, FMG 0.6 billion (2.5 percent) for Public
works and FMG 0.4 billion (2 percent) for tourism.
11.       A breakdown of loans made in the manufacturing subsectors is
presented below.
Million            Z of
Manufacturing                      FMG           Manufacturing      # Loans
Textiles . . . . . . . . . . .   2,702                20                 5
Food Industry  . . . . . . . .   2,682                20                 8
Construction Materials   .  .      1,423              11                2
Paper Products . . . . . . . .   1,285                10                6
Tobacco Products . . . . . . .       928               7                 1
Beverages  . .908                                      7                2
Chemical Products  . . . . . .       908               7                 5
Pharmaceuticals  . . . . . . .       663               5                 3
Leather Products . . . . . . .       655               5                 1
Wood and Stones  . . . . . . .       588               4                 1
Shoes and Clothing . . . . . .       264               2                 1
Metals . . . . . . . . . . . .       161               1                 2
Printing . . . . . . . . . . .        44               1                 1
Total Manufacturing  . . . . .   13,311              100X               38
_ ~~~            ~_ .                                          =



ANNEX IV
- 52-                            Page 4 of 5
12.       Although BNI's operations were well diversified among 13
different manufacturing subsectors, four of these-i.e. textiles, food
products, construction materials and paper products -accounted for more
than 60 percent in value of BNI lending operations.
13.       In terms of types of projects that BNI has financed since it
started operations, 47 percent were for expansions of existing enterpr.ses,
31 percent for modernization/rehabilitation, and over 19 percent for the
launching of new activities. A small proportion (3 percent) was also
devoted to the acquisition of spare parts. A large share of BNI financing
(75 percent in volume) was for companies in which the Government owned
either directly or indirectly, through BNI, a majority of the capital.
Financial Condition.
14.       Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1983, MIs  medium- and
long-term portfolio totalled FMG 18.8 billion while its short-term
portfolio amounted to FMG 96.6 billion, thus reflecting the significance of
commercial banking activities in BNI's operations. At the same date,
arrears of three months or more represented about 19 percent of the
portfolio. On doubtful loans, BNI has made provisions amounting to FMG
616.9 million, i.e. about 17 percent of the total amount in arrears. These
provisions are adequate. BNI's arrears situation is much better than most
development banks in the Eastern and Southern Africa region. This is
mainly due to the fact that BNI, through the commercial accounts maintained
by its clients, is in a position to monitor their liquidity position and,
in addition, has leverage to obtain timely repayments on its term loans.
Overall, BNI's loan portfolio is of acceptable quality.
15.       Equity Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1983, BNI's equity
portfolio totalled FMG 6.6 billion of investments in 49 enterprises of
which 25 made a profit in 1983 and 12 suffered losses. Eight companies are
still under construction or have just began operations; three enterprises
are operating at a reduced level and one is being liquidated.
16.       Resources.  In addition to its capital and deposits which it uses
to finance equity investments and short-term credits respectively, BNI also
has term resources both in local and foreign currency. Term resources in
local currency have been provided by the Treasury, the Post Office and
Insurance companies for durations generally ranging between 5 and 10
years. In addition, BNI has rediscount possibilities at the Central Bank
for the financing of short and medium-term credit. Foreign currency
resources have been provided by IDA, CCCE, KFW and some foreign commercial
banks (CIC, CCF). Terms range between 6 and 10 years for the CCE loans, to
between 15 and 20 years on the KFW loans. As of December 31, 1983, BNI had
foreign exchange resources equivalent to FMG 1.3 billion and local currency
resources amounting to FMG 11.3 billion available for commitments.



-53 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
17.       Financial Position.  As of December 31, 1983, assets totalled FMG
168.4 billion of which the loan portfolio represented FMG 110 billion and
equity portfolio FHG 6.6 billion. Capital, reserves and surplus totalled
FMG 27.5 billion and term borrowings FMG 10.6 billion. BNI's long-term
debt/equity ratio is thus 0.4:1, a very low proportion which allows
substantial additional borrowing. The financial position of BNI is sound.
18.       Profitability.  In 1983, BNI made a net profit of FMG 7.4 billion
which represented a return of 34.10 percent on average net worth. Gross
income represented 9.7 percent of total assets while administrative
expenses amounted to 2.14 percent of total assets. These results are
satisfactory.
19.       The first IDA Credit to BNI. The first IDA credit to BNI was
approved in January 1980. Commitments have been slower than expected at
appraisal, largely because of the economic crisis in Madagascar. Out of
the US$5.0 million, US$4.9 are now coamitted.
20.       BNI used the IDA Credit to finance 13 subprojects, of which three
were small-scale enterprises. In addition, the project financed five
feasibility studies and the purchase of computer equipment to improve its
management information system. Most of the subprojects were for the
purchase of equipment to modernize the facilities of existing enterprises.



- 54 -
ANNEX V
MADAGASCAR
INDUSTRIAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification                                       August 1982
(b) Project Preparation                                  June 1983
(c) Appraisal Mission                                    January 1984
(d) Post Appraisal Mission                               June 1984
(e) Negotiations                                         November 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                        March 1985
II - Actions to be taken before credit effectiveness
(a) Remove import prohibitions on five percent of the goods whose
importation is currently prohibited and make foreign exchange
available for their importation (para. 64);
(b) Agree on the size and content of the 1985 Public Investment
Program in Industry (para. 60);
(c) Hire consultants for the preparation of the export promotion
and import liberalization action programs (paras. 63 and 64);
(d) Eliminate export taxes for all manufactured goods and exonerate
exporters of manufactured goods from all indirect taxes on raw
materials and spare parts used as inputs on export production
(para. 63).
III - Actions to be taken before the release of the second tranche
(a) Decontrol all industrial prices with the exception of 31 products
(para. 55);
(b) Agreement on the size and composition of the 1986 Industrial PIP
(para. 60);
(c) Apply EPI system to all exporters of manufactured goods
(para. 62).
(d) Implement satisfactory export incentive and import
liberalization systems (paras. 63 and 64);
(e) Submit the new investment code to the National Assembly following
consultation with the Bank (para. 66);
(f) Remove import prohibitions on a further 15 percent of the
goods whose importation is currently prohibited and make foreign
exchange available for their importation (para. 63).
(g) Hake satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
industrial policies described in the Statement of Industrial
Policy and Goals (Annex III).
IV - Special Feature
Government Statement of Industrial Policy and Goals.



Annew VI
MADAGASCAR
Industrial Assiatance Credit
Estimated DLsbursement Schedule
Cumulative US$ million                                                  Cumulative x
Raw Materials   Equtipment for    Technical                       Raw Materials   Equilpment for    Technical
IDA FY        Quarter Ending         6 Spare Parts   Rehabilitation   Assistance   Total                6 Spare Parts   Rehabilitation   Asaistance   Total
1985        June 30, 1985                   5.0              --             0.3           5.3                14.9               --             20.0        13.2
1986        September 30, 1985             10.0             0.2             0.5          10.7                29.9               4.0            33.0        260.7
December 31, 1985              18.0             0.5             0.7          19.2                53.7              10.0            46.6        40.0
March 31, 1986                 26.0             1.0              1.0         28.0                 77.6             20,0            66.6        70.0
June 30, 1986                  30.0             1.5              1.2         32.7                89.6              30.0            80.0        81.7
1987        September 30, 1986             33.5             2.0              1.5         37.0               100.0              40.0           100.0        92.5
December 31, 1986              --               2.8              --         37.8                   --              56.0              --        94.5
March 31, 1987                                  3.5               -          38.5                                  70.0              --        96.2
June 30, 1987                   --              4.3              --          39.3                  --              86.0              --        98.2
1988        September 30, 1987      !                       5.0              --         40.0                   --             100.0              --       100.0



