OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1541 MAG
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1541 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      h9-   *-'-     "-       , 1985, between
Democratic Republic of Madagascar (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 30, 1984, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives    and  policies  designed   to  improve  the
efficiency of the industrial sector of Madagascar and declaring
the Borrowers commitment to the execution of that program;
(B) certain activities included in the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement will be carried out by BANKIN'NY
INDOSTRIA (hereinafter called BNI) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to BNI part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and BNI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"The term 'Project' means the Investment Projects or
other activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿--2-
the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement."
(b) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"14. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement."
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association.     If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days
or (b) (i) as regards the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Category (2) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Sche-
dule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, by the date
specified in Section 2,02 (f) of the Project Agreement no
applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion
of the Credit shall have been received by the Association,
or having been so received, shall have been denied or (ii)
as regards the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the other
Categories of such table, the Association determines, at any
time and after consultation with the Borrower, that the
whole amount of such proceeds, or any portion thereof, will
not be required to finance the Project's costs, or (c) after
the Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain un-
withdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such
approvals and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Credit.    Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be can-
celled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-3-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a' "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Ass3ciation and BNI of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNI pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated January 11, 1984 and
February 15, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association.
(d) "Special Account" means the Special Account to be main-
tained pursuant to Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement.
(e) "MIEM" means the Borrower's Ministry       of Industry,
Energy and Mining.
(f)  "Eligible Enterprise" means any enterprise selected in
compliance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement.
(g) "BTM" means the Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra.
(h) "BFV" means Banky Fampandrosoana ny Varotra.
(i) "Intermediaries" means, collectively, BN1, BTM and BFV.
(j) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by BNI to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Pro-
ject out of the part of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BNI
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(k)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BNI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.


﻿-4-
(1)  "Investment Project" means a specific development pro-
ject to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(m) "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower.
(n)  "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(o) "BNI Statuts" means the statuts of BNI approved by
Decree No. 76-441 of the Borrower dated December 27, 1976, as
amended from time to time.
(p) "Rules of Operation" means the rules of operation of
BNI as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on Decem-
ber 14, 1979, as amended from time to time.
(q) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BNI or by any one or more sub-
sidiaries of BNI or by BNI and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 40,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1), (3) and (4) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of
Schedule I hereto.
(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of this Section, BNI, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to


﻿-5-
Section 2.10 of this Agreement, may withdraw from the Credit
Account the equivalent of amounts paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by BNI on account of with-
drawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan to
meet the reasonable cost of goods required for the Investment
Project concerned. Provided, however, that no amount shall be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of an Investment
Project unless (A) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall
be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or
amounts previously financed for the same Investment Project under
the Development Credit Agreement and not repaid, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of $200,000 and which, when added
to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equiva-
lent of $2,000,000, the foregoing amounts being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Association.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with-
drawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of expen-
ditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i) goods pre-
viously imported into its territory through normal tradE channels
and from countries which are members of the Bank (or from Swit-
zerland or Taiwan); (ii) goods produced in the territory of the
Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw materials
so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises to carry out
Investment Projects; and (iii) construction works included in
such Investment Projects and carried out by local contractors.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement, or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Association shall have received the application and
information required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agree-
ment, or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Asso-
ciation shall have received the request and information required
by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
(f) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, maintain in the currency of the United States of America
a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods costing more than $1,000,000 equiva-
lent to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Categories (1), (3) and (4) of the table set out in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 hereto shall be procured on the basis of proce-
dures that include broad international tendering amongst sup-
pliers from the Association's member countries and Switzerland
and from Taiwan and contract award to the lowest evaluated res-
ponsive bidder. Before requesting a withdrawal of proceeds of the
Credit on account of any such contract, the Borrower shall cause
the Association to be furnished with a brief report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, on the procedures fol-
lowed in procuring such contract. If the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procedures followed in procuring
such contract are inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Section, no expenditures under such contract
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. The Associa-
tion shall promptly inform the Borrower of, and state the reasons
for, any such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to


﻿-7-
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1995, and ending August 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on August 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. BNI is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, as regards the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (2) of the table set
out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development Cre-
dit Agreement: (i) shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative and financial practices; (ii) shall cause
the Intermediaries to perform their respective obligations under
the agreements referred to in paragraph (b)(iii) of this Section;
(iii) shall cause BNI to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set


﻿-8-
forth; (iv) shall take and cause to be taken all action, includ-
ing the provision of funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources, necessary or appropriate to enable BNI to perform such
obligations; and (v) shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(1)   make available to the Eligible Enterprises as a
whole an adequate amount of foreign exchange from
sources other than this Credit during each semes-
ter of any given year during the execution of the
Project.
(ii)   select enterprises for the purposes of carrying
out Part A of the Project by applying criteria
which are acceptable to the Association.
(iii)   enter into agreements with the Intermediaries for
the carrying out of Part A of the Project on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association,
including a commission of 0.5% to be retained by
the Intermediaries for all proceeds of the Credit
passed on by the Intermediaries to Eligible Enter-
prises, and the obligation of the Intermediaries
to ensure that the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under Part A of the Project
shall be procured in accordance with prudent com-
mercial practices and that the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation.
(c) The    Borrower   shall   relend   the   equivalent   of
SDR 5,020,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to BNI under a
subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNI under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association includ-
ing: (i) a maximum term of 15 years (which shall include an
appropriate grace period); (ii) interest payable semi-annually,
at the rate of 9.29% and (iii) the foreign exchange risk to be
carried by the Investment Enterprises except for Investment En-
terprises whose assets do not exceed $250,000 equivalent at the


﻿-9-
time of approval or authorization of a Sub-loan for any such
Investment Enterprise for which the Borrower shall carry the
foreign exchange risk for a commission of 1% per annum on the
outstanding balances of Sub-loans.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981; it being specified that, as regards Part C.1 of
the Project, the employment of consultants shall be made as and
when needed.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and procurement schedules for Parts A and C of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and C of
the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived
from them), to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 10 -
request concerning Parts A and C of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Asso-
ciation may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
tract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Parts A and C of the Project, their costs
and the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the per-
formance by the Borrowar and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the program of actions
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and the measures
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views but not more often
than once every six months, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out said program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall commence to operate the
Zeren Project and the Mamisoa Project, except for a pilot
operation in the case of the Zeren Project, only after studies,
satisfactory to the Association, have established the economic
justification of the operation of these ventures.
Section 3.07. During execution of the Project the Borrower
shall not undertake any major investment project in the indus-
trial sector without prior consultation with the Association.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records (including accounts) adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) Any event shall have occurred which shall make it
improbable that the measures included in the Memorandum of Under-
standing, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BNI under the Project Agreement or under any other pro-
ject agreement between the Association and BNI.
(c) The BNI Statuts shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
BNI.
(d) BNI shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any
of the property of BNI shall or may be distributed among its cre-
ditors.
(e) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNI
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNI or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and BNI.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 13 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of
this Agreement have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
each of the Intermediaries and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and BNI.
(b) The Borrower has employed consultants to assist in the
preparation of the Borrower's export promotion action program and
the review of the Borrower's import system included in Part C.2
of the Project, as provided in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower has submitted to the Association a public
investment program for industry for the year 1985, which shall
be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
(d) The Borrower has decreased the number of goods subject
to import prohibitions as of November 15, 1984 by five percent
(5%) and has taken measures satisfactory to the Association to
provide import licenses and the foreign exchange required for the
importation of goods which were freed from import restrictions.
(e) The Borrower has eliminated export taxes for all manu-
factured goods and has exonerated exporters of such goods from
all indirect taxes on raw materials and spare parts used as
inputs for export production.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by BNI, and is legally binding
upon BNI in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date             ak k, l9q       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 16 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 hereof, the
Ministre aupres de la Presidence charg6 des Finances et de
1'Economie of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la
Pr6sidence de la Republique chargg
des Finances et de 1'Economie
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN Antananarivo                 22339
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Imports for               29,610,000        100% of foreign
Eligible Enter-                            expenditures
prises under
Part A of the
Project
(2) Investment Projects        5,020,000
under Part B of the
Project:
(a) Goods                                  100% of foreign
expenditures, and
70% of local
expenditures of
locally manu-
factured items
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures of
previously im-
ported goods
(b) Works                                  55%
(3) Works under                  250,000        55%
Part C.3 of the-
Project
(4) Consultants                  750,000        100%


﻿17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Initial deposit             4,070,000       Amount due under
in Special                                 paragraph 1 (c)
Account to                                 of Schedule 3
prefinance
items under
Category (1)
above
(6) Refunding of                  500,000       Amount due under
Project Prepa-                             Section 2.02 (b)
ration Advance                             of this Agreement
TOTAL                40,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "local expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of items in any Category decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
Category as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, (ii) expen-
ditures under Category (1), after the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from such Category shall have reached an
amount of SDR 17,200,000 equivalent, unless the Association shall


﻿- 18 -
then have been provided with evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation in compliance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement that
the Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Associa-
tion in the carrying out of the program of action referred to in
the preamble and the provisions of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
and (iii) expenditures under Category (2) unless the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and BNI shall have been
entered into to the Association's satisfaction and the Associa-
tion shall have been provided with a legal opinion satisfactory
to the Association showing that such Agreement is binding upon
the Borrower and BNI in accordance with its terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support important
policy reforms designed to increase the efficiency, productivity
and export orientation of the industrial sector and to increase
the capacity utilization of selected efficient industrial enter-
prises.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
A program for the provision of the requisite foreign ex-
change for the importation of intermediate goods, spare parts and
materials for Eligible Enterprises to be channeled to Eligible
Enterprises through BNI, BTM and BFV.
Part B:
Financing by BNI of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to
Investment Enterprises in accordance with the Rules of Operation
of BNI.
Part C:
1.   Reinforcing of MIEM's capacity in data collection and ana-
lysis and evaluation of Investment Projects through provision of
technical assistance.
2.   Preparation of action programs for export-promotion and a
study of the import system of the Borrower.
3.   Rehabilitation and upgrading of a building to serve as head-
quarters of MIEM.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Category (1) in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in the
currency of the United States of America equivalent to the amount
allocated to Category (5) and to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the
first sentence of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or re-
quests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized Alloca-
tion as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit to
replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under Category (1), and


﻿- 21 -
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such pay-
ment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association when the total unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1), minus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any special commitment entered into by the Asso-
ciation pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation, whichever shall be soon-
er. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (1) shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association, an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or


﻿- 22 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from tle Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 23 -
SCREDUILE 4
Tranche Release
The measures to be specifically. included in the review pro-
vided for in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are as
follows:
The Borrower shall have:
(a) freed ex-factory prices for all goods manufactured in
Madagascar, with the exception of prices of 31 goods
which accounted for 30% of the value added in the
industrial sector in 1982;
(b) prepared a public investment program for industry for
the year 1986 and such program shall be mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association;
(c) adopted a program of actions, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, to promote exports;
(d) decreased by an additional fifteen percent (15%) the
number of goods subject to import prohibitions as of
November   15,  1984  and  shall  have  taken  measures
satisfactory to the Association to provide import
licenses and the foreign exchange required for the
importation of goods which were freed from import
restrictions;
(e) after consultation with the Association, prepared a
final draft for a new investment code and shall have
initiated the legislative procedure therefor; and
(f) after consultations with the Association, taken all
appropriate action to implement its exports-retention
scheme (compte EPI) by extending it to all manu-
facturers who export their manufactures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the       -    day of
198_
FOR SECRETARY


