Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8627
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
(CREDIT 789-ET)
MAY 8, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
Tbis docmet has a restcted drbu    and may be used by iedD  only In the pedonance of
th* oU k I du   Its content  w not othe_wise be disclosed w  obot d W dan  aut_izaio



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AISCO      Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation.
AMC        Agricultural Marketing Corporation
ARDU       Arsi Rural Development Unit
BCSC       Basic Comuodities Supply Corporation
CADU       Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
CIU        Crop Information Unit
CSA        Central Statistical Authority
CSU        Crop Surveillance Unit
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
EBCA       Ethiopian Building and Construction Authority
EGA        Ethiopian Grain Agency
EGB        Ethiopian Grain Board
EGC        Ethiopian Grain Corporation
EOPEC      Ethiopian Oilseeds and Pulses Export Corporation
EPID       Extension and Project Implementation Department
ETCA       Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOE        Government of Ethiopia
IDA        International Development Association
MDT        Ministry of Domestic Trade
MPP        Minimum Package Project
MPP II     Minimum Package Project II
PA         Peasant Association
PADEP      Peasant Agricultural Development Project
RMEA       Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
RPA        Rural Projects Agency
tRC        Relief and Zehabilitation Commission
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SC         Service Cooperatives
SIDA       Swedish Inernational Development Agency
SORADEP    Southern Rangelands Agricultural Development Project
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WADU       Wolaita Agricultural Development Unit



FOR OFFICA  USE ONy
TE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA.
Ok.c oE Dwtew-G~alga
OpwaMm.w Evakaattwn
May 8, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Proje-t Completion Report on Ethiopia Grain Storage
and Marketing Proiect (Credit 789-ET)
Attached, for information, i8 a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Ethiopia - Grain Storage and Marketing
Project (Credit 789-ET)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank autbofization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
Grain Storage and Marketing Project
Credit 789-ET
Proiect Completion Report
Table of Contents
Pate
Preface                                                                   i
Basic Data Sheet                                                        ii
Evaluation Summary                                                      iv
I. BACKGROUND
Political, Economic and Social Context......................            1
The Agricultural Sector.*...* ...                                       1
Agriculture Development Projects..o         t    es 2.........    .     2
The Agricultural Marketing Sytem...........................             2
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND FORMULATION  ........................   3
3ritin~~~~~~~~~o ... ooo-,............................ 3
Preparation and Appraisal. ............... .................            4
Negotiations..................4*,4*4.*4**44*.................4.........  6
Targets and Goals.. .......................................    9
Projlect Description ......................................................    10
III* IMPLEMENTATION ....... ..**...                                   ............................ 11
Startup ........................................................ 11
Revisions in Physical Infrastructure...-o ..................    12
Reporting and Financial Covenants ...........................          15
Institution Building..** ....... 4...                                  15
Policy Implementation                   ...........    17
Project Costs.*   .......................    20
Disbursements and Financing. ................................          21
Implementation Schedule ....................... ..............    22
Procurement ...................................................... 22
IV.  AMC OPERATING PERFORMANCE ................... ............. .   23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance    I
of their official duties. Its contents may Paot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I



Table of Contents (Cont.)
PaRe
V.    AMC INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ............. ............ 4......    27
VI.   AMC FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  .. ...             ..     .  ....... .        30
VII.  IMPACT OF POLICIES FOLLLOWED  ...........................    .. 30
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   . ......... .. .. .. ......... .   39
Increased Production ...     **.* ......**........ ....0   39
Reduced Storage Losses. ......... .............        .... .    ......... .   39
Income Redistribution .......................................    40
Incremental Wholesale Marke.ing .............................    40
Buffer Stocking ......... 0................. 4..............             40
Consumer Protection..........*..............**# ....... O..    40
Incremental Input Distribution ........................ , .....    41
IX.   BANK PE       RFORMANCE ..................... .............              41
X.    SPECIAL ISSUES .... . ................... ... ...............   42
How to Approach Policy Change .................... .......              42
On Definition of Production  Incentives ....................            44



- i -
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
CREDIT 789-ET
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Grain Storage
and Marketing Project in Ethiopia, for which Credit 789-ET in the amount of
US$24.0 million was approved in April, 1978. The credit account was closed
on September 30, 1985, after having been fully disbursed. The credit was
closed almost four years behind schedule.
The PCR was prepared by Bank staff following a mission to Ethiopia
in February 1987. It is based on discussions with Government and other
appropriate staff during field visits and a review of the following
reports: Staff Appraisal Report; Supervision Reports and Files in the
Regional Mission, Nairobi; Development Credit Agreement; "Grain Marketing
Study", June 1985 by Swedfarm; "AMC Statistical Data on Operations",
Planning and Market Research Department; "Review of Farmers Incentives and
Agricultural Marketing and Distribution Efficiency", Joint GOE/IDA Missiora,
March 1983; and Statistical Bulletins, Central Statistical Office.
This report was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on January 23,
1990, but none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT (CREDIT 789-ET)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or
Item                                     Expectation      Current Estimates
Project Cost (US$ million)                 34.6                  30.4
Underrun (X)                                                     12%
Credit Amount (US$ million)                24.0                  24.0
Disbursed                                24.0                  24.0
Cancelled                                 -                     -
Date Physical Components Completed          12/81                11/84
Proportion Completed by Above Date(%)       100                  39
Economic Rate of Return (%)                 18%                  Negative
Financial Performance                       -
Institutional Performance                  Good                  Poor
Policy Performance                         Good                  Poor
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ million)
FY78    FY79    FY80      FY81   FY82    FY83    FY84      FY85
Appraisal Estimate       7.9    13.2    18.7      24.0
Actual                     -     8.6     9.4      11.7   14.1    15.6    16.8      24.0
Actual as % of Estimate   0       65      50        49     59      65       70      100
PROJECT DATES
Actual or
Item                        Original Plan       Revision   Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or
Timetable                                                -          9/71
Government Application                                     -          10/74
Appraisal                                        -                       -
Negotiations                          6/76          6/76 (aborted)    2/77
Board Approval                        9176               9/76         4178
Credit Agreement Date                   -                  -          6/78
Effectiveness Date                      -                  -          9/78
Credit Closing Date                  12/81              12/84         9/85



-iii -
Fam  mi a  ma r i      fm   ma fal  i  era  ,n  En  ri  rim  m
Idftlificmtieon  4.0 D0.2  2.6                                                    2t.8
Approlool          0.~89  36.s  1.2                                        97.2
Negotiations                       20.6                                           2806
0a..rviaion                            29.8 11.2 =.1 40.4 22.5  0.1  7.6  0.7  1.1 1.2
SubiteIl         4.0 J0.2 42.1 06.$ 2.0 29.8 11.2  2.1 40.4 12.8  a.i  7.s  s.?  1.1 00.e
3SS!1ON DATA
Uont.b  -Nu_ber of                  Mbndy)   FP*frforsfne
Y*r    P r o       Exis rtit  P/    In Fl.ld   Rating bW       Trend w /   Problem d/
Appraisal     1   07/75       4         AS Ec FA
Supervision   2    07/76      1         As Ec              5          1              2            -
Supervision   8   01/79       1         Ag Ee             12          1              2            -
Supervision   4    08/70      1         FA                12          2              8-          PFT
Supervision   6    04/U0      S         Ag Ec, fA         21          2              2           TFWP
Eno
Supervision   6    11/80      4         Eng. Agr          28          2              2           TiP
Fe, Ag Ec
Supervision   7   08/81       4         Eng. Agr          28          2              8          TMP"
FP, Ag Ea
Supervision   8    00/81      2         Eng, Ag Ec        14          2              8          TMFP
Supervision   9    11/81      1         Eng               21          2              2           TMFP
Supervision   10  67/82       2         En.g Ag Ee        21          2              2           MFP
Supervision   11  609/88      1         A Ec              5           2              1          OTP
Supervlslon   12  02/84       1         Ag Ec             4           2              2           OPi
Supervision   1J  61/"4       2         FA, Arch           9          3              2           PO
Supervision   14  68/65       1         FA                4           4              2           PO
Complotion    16  02/87       2         Ag Ec, FA         28
TOTAL
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrowert          Government of Ethiopia
Executing Agency: Agricultural Marketing Corporation,
Ethiopian Grain Agency
Crop Information Unit
Fiscal Year:       July 8 - July 7
Exchange Rate at Appraisal: 1 US$ - Eth. Birr 2.07
at Completion: 1 US$ - Eth. Birr 2.07
Follow-on Proiects None
a/ Ag Ec -  Agricultural Economist                 c/ Before 1986:
FA    =   Financial Analyst                      1: Improving
Agr   =  Agriculturist                           2: Stationary
Eng   =  Engineer                                3: Deteriorating
Arch  =  Architect
kl  1:      Problem-free or minor problems    d/ F: Financial
2:    Moderate problems                          X: Managerial
3:    Major Problems                             T: Technical.
P: Political
0: Other
After 1986: relating to
Available funds
Project Management
Overall status



- iv -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.        Ethiopia has undergone a series of political and structural
transformations since the mid-1970's that have dramatically altered
economic conditions. In 1974 the feudal regime was overthrown. Since
then, the Government has moved towards the direction of collective
cultivation of the land. Of the total land area of 122.6 million hectares,
only about 1OX is producing crops. Peasant sector production accounts for
97? of field crop output while state farms account for 4Z of cereals
production. Constraints to agricultural production include land erosion,
lack of inputs, credit and efficient extension services, and inappropriate
pricing and marketing practices.
ObJectives
2.         The objective of the Grain Storage and Marketing Project was to
support the establishment of an orderly grain marketing and input
distribution system in the country (para. 2.23). However, it appears that
the Government's agenda was quite different from the Bank's.
Government's long-term goal was to socialize the grain trade. Its policy
was to 'engage in wholesale and retail business in order to stabilize
prices particularly of basic consumption items, and thereby protect the
interests of the masses" and to exercise "strict control on the private
sector with regard to prices and distribution of goods." The Bank, on the
other hand, has as an implicit objective the provision of adequate
production incentives to farmers, and support growth in agricultural
output. The lack of clarity in the statement objectives and the potential
conflict are indicative of the difficulties which would surround the
project during implementation.
Implementation Experience
3.        The physical infrastructure program was revised (paras 3.07-
3.12). The construction of warehouses was modified from 343,000 MT at 18
locations to 202,500 MT at 22 locations. The reduction in volume was
necessary to accommodate a sharp increase in construction costs. The
Ethiopian Building and Construction Authority, a Government organization,
was awarded some 602 of the contracts, with the remainder awarded under
local competitive bidding. There were considerable delays due to lack of
construction materials in the country and problems in design and quality
control. The building program was completed in November 1984 though
certain remedial works were still to be undertaken by the contractors prior
to final payment. Construction of the headquarters building for the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) was also delayed because of cost
escalations. The Bank finally agreed to the increased allocation and the
building was completed in October 1984.
4.        Institution Building.  The project was to establish an
institutional framework for intervening in the grain market (paras.3.17-
3.23). Policies and prices were to be formulated by the Ethiopian Grain
Agency (EGA) and executed through AMC on the basis of data gathered by the
Crop Information Unit (CIU). This framework fell apart early in the



- v -
project. The EGA was not adequately staffed and was disbanded in 1980.
Its functions spread to AMC, the Ministry of Domestic Trade (MDT) and the
Ethiopian Standards Institute. The transfer of AMC from MOA to MDT
further weakened the production incentive aspect of its operations and
emphasis was shifted to the consumer side. The technical assistance
program contained in the appraisal report was not implemented and training
of staff did not live up to appraisal targets. Only a few expatriate
consultants were hired.
5.        Policy Implementation (paras. 3.24-3.39).  The Government's
policy of socializing the grain trade and the emphasis on consumer
interests conflicted with the principles established at appraisal.
According to the SAR, producer prices should provide adequate incentives to
farmers and produce trade should be encouraged through Government credit
and reasonable margins for produce trading.   In the 1970s, with grain
prices high on the free market and AMC procurement quotas small, the issue
of production incentives did not arise. But as AMC increased its quotas in
the early 1980's and purchased at prices lower than the free market, the
issue of disincentives to farmers became serious.   Implementation of
policies envisioned in the SAR was further weakened by the lack of a market
intelligence and crop forecasting function due to the dismantling of EGA.
In addition, restrictions in movement and tightened control of the private
sector discouraged produce trade.
Results
6.        The economic rate of return at project completion is estimated
to be negative or at best zero, compared with the SAR estimate of 25Z
including buffer stocking and 18Z excluding buffet stocking (paras.. 8.01-
8.08). Project impact is as follows: (a) the project did not have a
positive impact on production incentives and grain production. During the
project period, AMC purchase prices did not give a satisfactory return to
fertilizer use and its consumption actually declined from a peak in the
first year; (b) benefits from improved warehouses are estimated to be
negligible; (c) the effect on income redistribution was negative. Due to
price controls and restrictions in movement, farmers got less for their
produce (purchased by AMC) and consumers paid more (for open market grain);
(d) no benefits resulted from buffer stocking since AMC did not operate any
buffer stock scheme; (e) the net result on consumer welfare is hard to
judge. On balance there probably has been a measure of protection in large
urban centers such as Addis. However, the general quality of the grain
distributed has deteriorated because of the elimination of quality grading;
(f) the returns to AMC's intervention in input distribution was negative on
balance.
Sustainability
7.        Given the disagreement between the Government and the Bank over
pricing and marketing policies, the project did not produce any sustainable
impact on agricultural production. However, following the completion of
the project, the Government made further changes in pricing and marketing
policies which improved grain production and produced some returns on the
investments of the project.



_ vi -
Lessons Learned
8.        The lessons learned are summarized belows
(a) despite the divergence in positions, it was felt that Bank
involvement on the production side would balance the
Government's emphasis on consumers.  However, lack of sufficient
Bank attention to the developments in the grain market during
three crucial years, 1980-82 meant that the chance to advise
Government on the possible negative effects of policy changes
was weakened;
(b) Bank supervision during 1980-82 was carried out by staff
with engineering, procurement or financial analyst background,
who focused on the storage construction program. More attention
should have been given to policy implementation;
(c) covenants on technical assistance should be stronger.
insistence on several key posts to be manned by expatriate staff
would have been an acceptable covenant;
(d) the Bank could have provided more innovative learning and
technical assistance processes, such as seminars and case
studies of other countries, to enhance Government understanding
of marketing efficiency.   This approach of strengthening the
Government's inhouse capacity to monitor producer price
incentives is being taken under the Peasant Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 1956-ET).



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT (CR. 789-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Background
Political, Economic and Social Context
1.01        Ethiopia has undergone a series of political and structural
transformations since the mid 197v's that have dramatically altered economic
conditions. In 1974 the feudal regime was overthrown. A Land Reform which limited
the size of private holdings to 10 ha per household was proclaimed the next year.
To implement the Land Reform Peasants' Associations (PA's) were formed. These later
assumed other important administrative and judicial responsibilities. Youth
associations and women's associations were brought together with PA's to form
agricultural service cooperatives. These were soon to become strategic
organizations for the distribution of consumer goods and agricultural inputs, and
the marketing of produce. The Government of Ethiopia announced its intention to
gradually have peasant associations evolve into producers' cooperatives implying
collective cultivation of the land. By 1984, 19,851 peasants' associations, (with
3,903 associated agricultural service cooperatives), and 1,389 producers'
cooperatives existed, with a membership of 5,541,000 and 94,000 farmers
respectively.
1.02        Ethiopia has suffered from two serious (1974 and 1985) and several minor
droughts which caused tragic losses of human lives, and forced substantial short
term reallocations of resources. Internal unrest in the northern parts of the
country and a long and painful war with Somalia have further deferred development.
Political unrest in the year 1976-1978 culminated in violent fighting between
olitical factions, imprisonment and executions. Temporary closing of the schools
aggravated the lack of educated personnel needed to fill vacancies created by the
economic and social transformation. The population of Ethiopia is around 42 million
and growing at 2.9%/annum.
The Agricultural Sector
1.03        Ethiopia has a total land area of 122.6 mi.Llion hectares, of which 9.3
million are cropped, some 3.1 million lie fallow, and some 65.3 million ha are in
pasture. Thus, only some 12.4 million ha (10 percent of the land area) is producing
crops. Of this, only 6.5 million ha can be identified with specific crops.
1.04        Crop production accounts for some two thirds of agricultural GDP, and
livestock one third. Within crops, cereals account for some 55% of value added,
coffee 17%, pulses 8%, and other industrial crops (sugar, cotton) and enset some
20%.
1.05        Of the total 6.5 million ha under cultivation in a given year, some 10%
is used for the production of coffee, sugar, cotton and other industrial crops. The
remaining 90% of the area is under field crops: cereals, pulses and others, of which
annual production has averaged some 6.9 million tons between 1979/80 and 1983/84.
1.06        Peasant Sector production accounts for 97% of field crop output in a
normal year. State Farms largest share is in cereals production, where they attain



- 2 -
4% of total output. Within the Peasant Sector, the collectivized producers
cooperatives account for about 2% of output. The Ethiopian farmer is relatively
skilled in traditional farming. Declining average land size and growing erosion
problems are natural constraints to increased standard of living in the countryside.
Lack of improved inputs, credit, efficient extension services, and proven
recommendations from agricultural research further limit the growth potential.
Agricultural Development Proiects
1.07        Several regional agricultural development projects were initiated in the
1970s: CADU in Chilalo Awraja, WADU in Wollamo awraja, SORADEP in the Shashemane
area, ADA in the Debre Zeit area, Setit Humera in the Tigrai region. These projects
had in common an emphasis on proven research results disseminated through an
efficient extension system, and a well-functioning input supply system combined with
credit facilities. Farmer response to the innovations offered was in general
gratifying and some projects demonstrated substantial increases in production and a
significant improvement in the standards of living. In all fairness it should be
underlined that these so called comprehensive projects were located in areas where
natural conditions, and a favorable location in relation to the major consumer
centers, made success highly likely. The CADU and WADU projects included
improvements to the traditional marketing system.
1.08        The Mlinimum Package Project (MPP), implemented by the Extension and
Project Implementation Department (EPID), a department of the Ministry of
Agriculture but with a relatively autonomous status, was designed to spread basic
agricultural inputs and services to farmers in Ethiopia. A first phase (MPP I
Credit 416-ET), financed by IDA and SIDA included 350 extension areas each with
2,000 households. During the second phase (MPP II Credit 1088-ET) the project grew
to include 440 weredas, all the agricultural areas of the country. MPP II failed to
maintain the high level of operational efficiency of the research, extension and
input delivery systems that characterized its predecessors. It also ran into
difficulties demonstrating the economic profitability of its basic innovations:
improved seeds and fertilizers.
The Agricultural Marketing System
1.09        The traditional agricultural marketing system of Ethiopia consisted of a
few terminal markets, a considerable number of market towns and some 2,500 village
markets. The number of dealers in rural areas was estimated at between 12,500 and
25,000, with an additional 4,000 to 8,000 in towns. Some 25 major merchants in
Addis Ababa and to a minor extent in Asmara, managed the system. The number of
links in the chain from producer to consumer varied but is generally considered to
be high. Actors on the market played different roles and a strict classification
into wholesaler, retailer, assembler, agent and broker is not meaningful to make.
1.10        The consumer market determined the prices to be paid in rural markets.
Depending on the accuracy of subjective estimates of yearly production and the
related marketed quantities, merchants at the terminal markets either made windfall
profits or incurred large losses. Other marketing problems according to
contemporary observers were high transport costs and double transport. The weak
competitive position of the producer is often cited as another major deficiency.
Lack of competition, in particular in remote areas with few traders, cheating on
weighing by the traders, the labor intensive market operations, and the numerous



- 3 -
title transfers in the marketing chain are the alleged signs of an inefficient
marketing system.
1.11        Analysis of data on prices and margins from the pre-project period, on
the other hand, illustrates that markets were relatively well integrated, seasonal
price increases were closely related to costs, price differences between two
locations by and large corresponded to the transport cost between two locations, the
farmgate to wholesale price margin did not provide for any excessive profit, and
that the same held true for the wholesale to retail price margin.
II. Prolect Background and Formulation
Origin
2.01        The project had complex origins.  Several reports had, from the early
1960s, identified the inefficiencies of the marketing system for agricultural
produce. A USAID funded nationwide study initiated in 1971 indicated that grain
storage conditions and management were in need of substantial improvement.
Proposals for a future grain storage and marketing project were expected as a result
of the study. At the same time agricultural development in Ethiopia underwent a
gradual shift to stimulate small holder production. Concrete steps in this
direction were taken with the establishment of comprehensive, regional agricultural
projects, starting with the Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) in 1967.
Since 1968169 CADU had marketed grain in competition with private traders. Grain
marketing was added to the project with the aim of improving producer prices, in
particular immediately after harvest time. CADU proved to operate at lower margins
than private traders, and did have a positive impact on producer prices despite a
market share of not more than 20% in Chilalo Awraja. However, the project also
illustrated the high level of marketing skills required to compete with the
traditional marketing system. It was obvious that Government could ill afford to
replicate comprehensive rural projects such as this all over the country. A minimum
package concept, incorporating the agricultural innovations successfully
disseminated in regional projects, was identified. In the course of preparing a
Minimum Package Programme (MPP), marketing issues surfaced as an important
consideration.
2.02        In early 1972 terms of reference were developed for an interministerial
committee assigned to look into a possible grain marketing project. The committee
included the Ministries of Agriculture and Commerce and Industry. The differing
opinions of these ministries on the objectives and organizational structure of the
future project were to persist. In late 1972 the Minister of Agriculture requested
the World Bank to assist in preparing the Grain Marketing and Storage Project.



-4-
Preparation and Appraisal
2.03        It would take almost six years before the IDA credit for the Project
became effective. It is worthwhile to follow the steps to effectiveness in some
detail in order to fully appreciate the problems of project implementation and
eventual impact. The original conception of the Project focused on augmenting
storage capacity at intermediate levels, but estimated that sufficient stores were
available for producers and terminal markets. These stores would in part be used by
the Government's marketing organization. Private traders would, however, be given
an option to rent some of the stores, an effort to reduce storage losses. The
Government marketing organization would retain some stocks for supporting local
floor prices to be announced before the planting season. Prices would be
differentiated with regard to season and distance from major consumer centers. The
pre-appraisal mission for MPP I chose to exclude grain marketing from the project,
and expressed doubts on the grain marketing project. Evidently this was not caused
by a disregard for the need for producer incentives. It was rather the result of
the belief that a parastatal marketing project would never be able to acquire the
necessary marketing skills. A discussion paper written in the context of MPP
suggested rather that private traders be given easier and more favorable access to
credit.
2.04        The committee preparing the grain marketing project made little progress
through early 1973. Disputes raged concerning which ministry the project should
fall under. Pricing was also extensively discussed, with Ministry of Agriculture,
quite naturally, arguing for maintaining producer incentive prices. During a Bank
Mission in April 1973 committee agreement was reached on an outline for a four year
program with a regulatory and advisory board, a management contract with a foreign
consultancy group, institution building, training and data collection (concentrated
in the first year) as principal components, in addition to the creation of a
parastatal for the actual market intervention and price leadership. Areas where
intervention would take place were mainly MPP areas. It was estimated that 30% of
marketed surplus in the areas of intervention would suffice for the intended impact.
This would require additional storage capacity amounting to 16,200 MT at 25 sites.
Total project cost was estimated at Br 14 million.
2.05        At the end of 1973 a mission from RMEA, in collaboration with a newly
recomposed interministerial committee, set out to formulate a loan request to IDA
against the background provided in the draft proposal. It then became clear that
EGC would be replaced by the AMC and that the functions of EGB were to be divided
between a number of institutions. The Ministry of Agriculture objected to the
limited size of the project. A five year program was then outlined, still with the
intention of concentrating on institution building in the initial two years. Even
so, by year 6 storage capacity would have increased to 100,000 MT at 19 sites and
with supplies being collected from 335 trade centers, mainly linked to MPP.
Technical assistance in the order of 47 man-years was foreseen. Total project
costs, excluding contingencies, were calculated at Br 29 million with a foreign
component of 522.
2.06        Preappraisal in August 1974 (the year the Revolution started and the
Emperor was deposed) raised some issues that would have long standing relevance. In
the choice between consumer and producer interests, the Mission said the latter
ought to be emphasized. Management of a floor price system prior to the
establishment of a nationwide network of buying points, and in the absence of an



accurate crop forecasting system, was rated risky. The preappraisal mission was
generally critical of the size of the project and its market share, the rate of
expansion, and the inherent dangers that AMC would make heavy financial losses as
had happened previously to EGC. Finally, the report pointed to the weakness of the
links between EPID, the Agricultural Inputs Marketing Service, and AMC, the absence
of a thorough analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of Including input supply
under the project, and the fact that no improvement of private trade was included.
2.07        After the project had been revised, and in order to follow recent
developments in the country, the Bank launched a new preappraisal/appraisal mission
in March 1975. The mission was informed by the Government that it was possible to
combine producer and consumer interests under one organisstion in a socialist state,
that AMC would potentially include marketing not only of grain, oilseeds and pulses
but inputs supplies as well. The organization would also recommend on ceiling and
floor prices and input subsidies, and manage strategic reserves and buffer stocks.
Further, Government revealed that AMC would ultimately become a wholesale monopoly,
while EGB would be maintained for supervision of private trade and for market
analysis. In the light of the issues which arose as a result of the new Government
position, it was decided to abort the appraisal. Government commitment to producer
incentives was questioned in the light of recent controls with antiproducer
objectives. The prospect of AMC suddenly buying approximately 800,00G) MT of grain
opened up completely new perspectives.
2.08        Discussions were resumed in June 1975, and a new draft preparation
report presented in July. It was accepted by GOE in September. The project
objectives were to: (i) assure stable producer and consumer prices at levels which
would provide adequate producer incentives; (ii) reduce marketing margins; (iii)
ensure adequate food supplies all over the country; (iv) supply inputs to EPID and
State Farms; (v) market production from these entities; and (vi) improve market
information and crop forecasting. A project period parallel to the proposed MPP II
project (1976177- 1979/80) was discussed. Key indicator3 of expected performance
would be:
AMC Purchases                                Proiected 1979/80
('000 MT)
From 265 EPID marketing centers/coops             161
From State Farms                                  153
From private trade                                 15
Imports                                           150
TOTAL                               419
Agricultural Inputs Distributed
To 575 EPID centers and State Farms               137
AMC Sales
To mills                                          214
Wholesale                                         150
Retail                                             93
Export                                             22
TOTAL                               419



- 6 -
2.09        At full development AMC would have 10 branch officer, 9 sub-branches, 50
temporary retail outlets and 350,000 MT of warehouse storage (of which 50,000 MT
would be for security stocks). Project cost was estimated at Br 75 million
including contingencies.
2.10        Within EGB (later EGA) an Internal Marketing Department would be
organized for the licensing and supervision of private traders along with a Market
Intelligence Department. Within the Ministry of Agriculture improved crop
forecasting would be financed under the proposed project. In a memo of October 1,
1975 Bank staff who had taken part in the latest discussions noted that AMC
wholesale prices would have to fall between an upper and lower limit decided by
Government ability to subsidize imports and the required producer incentives
respectively. Issues still at stake at this time were the size and implementation
period of the project, and the role of private traders, as recent events made future
prospects for private trade bleak. Among perceived risks an internal memorandum
recognizes that "management difficulties during the first period will nevertheless
be formidable due to the size of the operation and, considering the risk of
political interference in the pricing and marketing patterns, possible adverse
reactions of private trade and possible transport difficulties". In terms of size
and content the project was only to change marginally from this time on.
Negotiations
2.11        In retrospect, the Bank appears to have been convinced that in the wake
of the Land Reform, increased public wholesale marketing was a mandatory
development. This is well illustrated by the following quotations:
'The project, as proposed, is the smallest size possible,
given the institutional and policy changes following the
Revolution. Any reduction in size would leave a vacuum in
marketing or have serious adverse consequences on the
development efforts' (Decision Memorandum, October 15,
1975).
'To reduce the public efforts below this level would mean
that private trade would need to expand which as noted above
is a very doubtful proposition as, in the aftermath of the
Land Reform, an active marketing effort is likely to be
required to make sufficient supplies available in urban
centers' (Office Memo, Washington D.C., March 15, 1976
commenting on the yellow cover appraisal report regarding
size of public wholesale trade).
2.12        A Yellow Cover Staff Appraisal Report was discussed with the Ethiopians
in March, 1976, and the outlines of the project agreed on. A number of Bank
conditions for the June negotiations were formulated. Some were resolved before the
negotiations. Major conditions were: AMC to be legally established; resources to be
transferred from EGC to AMC estimated and date set for actual transfer; role of
private traders clarified; Government to review future of State Farms, import
situation, MPP expansion, and scope for bilateral technical assistance.



2.13        The Bank's lending policy with respect to Ethiopia is stated in a
Washington D.C. Office Memorandum of April 7, 1976:
****.our lending should be subject to our being satisfied on the
following two criteria:
(a) that the Ethiopian Government is sincerely dedicated to the pursuit
of meaningful economic development and suen to be enacting policies
and taking concrete decisions conducive to this aim;
(b) that the conditions surrounding each project are such that it can be
implemented."
2.14        The Grain Storage and Marketing project was considered to meet these
criteria.
2.15        Negotiations in June, 1976 were adjourned in disagreement.  The
Ethiopian delegation resented the specificity of the covenants, rejected all
references to consultation with or approval by IDA, and finally objected to cases
where existing or proposed legislation was not adequate for the purposes of the
Project or where further legislation or regulation by the Borrower would be
required. On project issues the covenants on pricing policy were objected to. As
then formulated AMC purchase prices would guarantee an incremental benefit/cost
ratio from fertilizer use of 1.5:1.  The range for purchase prices was fixed at Br.
5/quintal. These convenants were criticized as too specific. The range is as
illustrative range from the appraisal report which assumes Government would
subsidize imports. 1/
2.16        On technical assistance, the Ethiopian delegation wished all amounts to
be spent or be placed in the unallocated category. Reasons for this were: (i) they
were simultaneously seeking bilateral assistance; (ii) costs of expatriate staff
were excessive and reflected a higher quality of staff than Government believed was
required; and (iii) that IDA criteria for internationally recruited personnel
prevented recruitment of Ethiopian personnel, and thus conflicted with the objective
of self-reliance. The Ethiopian delegation proposed that the six technical
assistance positions (three less than stated in the credit agreement) be recruited
through SIDA, and no consulting organization be hired to backstop AMC's development.
IDA point out shortcomings in the AMC legislation, now considered to be less
specific than before (notably on pricing), the reduced amounts to be set aside
yearly to the reserve fund, and noted that the composition of the AMC Board no
longer reflected a desire for coordination of the various agencies involved in the
Project.
2.17        Up to and during negotiations, Bank staff worked on proposals for
reducing the high degree of conditionality in the credit agreement, while at the
same time retaining the opportunity to condition future disbursements on an
1/       Otherwise consumer prices were, given the deficit situation,
expected to reach import parity prices which in the absence of
subsidies would be the upper price limit. The issue of import
parity was never brought to the fore during project implementation
until 1983/84.



- 8 -
assessment at a mid term review. The possibility of a two phase project, w'th the
second phase conditioned on the performance under the first was considered. It is
not evident from the files or interviews why this approach was not pursued further.
2.18        After the adjournment one of the driving forces behind the preparation
work wrote in an Office Memorandum: 'I am fairly confident that this project would
have been in the problem category almost before its start" (June 27, 1976).
2.19        After revisions in the conditionality of the Credit Agreement,
negotiations were opened again on January 31, 1977 and proceeded with only minor
disagreements. The presentation to the Board, scheduled for June 1977, was
withdrawn at short notice. Implementation capability, one of the two criteria for
Bank lending to Ethiopia, appeared endangered in the light of the war with Somalia
which developed that year. Approval of the Project was not made conditional upon
resolving the compensation issue, as was done for MPP II and the Education Project.
A number of missions and observations confirmed that Ethiopia still had a
satisfactory implementation capacity and no alarming security problems in the Center
and South. Consequently, the project was presented to the Board on April 4, 1978
and signed on June 9 of the same year.
2.20        As a result of the initial disagreements, very few special conditions
were included in the final legal document. With reference to technical assistance,
candidates to seven key management positions with AMC, "who were to be qualified and
experienced', were not to be approved by IDA. However, IDA was to be consulted
(Section 3.03 of the DCA). A similar condition applied to EGA (previously EGB),
where positions were undefined but the total specified at 19 man-years.
2.21        Regarding storage, in the event that AMC would deviate from the
construction plan agreed upon at appraisal (see para 3.11) by more than 25% of the
aggregate annual volume of storage space on any year of the plan, or make any other
substantial deviation from such a plan during any year, the following year's
construction program was to be established by agreement with IDA.
2.22        The conditions on pricing and marketing policy state the relevant
principles, but did not include reference to any monitorable indicators, making
assessment of compliance extremely subjective. Section 4.05 of the DCA, detailed in
Schedule 4 established that:
'Th^ Borrower shall establish produce price ranges applicable to
AMC'  operations in Addis Ababa and other marketing centers so as
to ensure: (i) adequate production incentives to farmers, taking
into consideration, inter alia, the input costs of farmers and the
cost of transporting produce from farmers to marketing centers; and
(ii) reasonable margins for produce trading".
Prices would be established as ranges within which AMC would be free to determine
its day-by-day produce prices at different locations. Further, IDA was to be
informed periodically on import volumes of produce, fertilizer prices and any
resulting subsidies. From time to time IDA was to be consulted on the adequacy of
prices in respect of production incentives to farmers. Finally, availability of
adequate Government credit to facilitate produce trade in Ethiopia was to be
ensured. Payment to AMC of Government's contribution to trading capital was made
the only condition for effectiveness.



-9-
Targets and Goals
2.23        The objective of the project, as stated in the appraisal report was to:
"... support the establishment of an orderly grain marketing and input distribution
system in the country ..." (para 4.01 of SAR). Government policy had been
enunciated as follows (from the Declaration on Economic Policy of Socialist Ethiopia
published February 7, 1975):
"The Government may, where necessary, engage in wholesale and
retail business in order to stabilize prices particularly of basic
consumption items, and thereby protect the interests of the masses".
'Strict control will also be exercised on the private sector with
regard to prices and distribution of goods". (See Annex 3
of SAR)".
2.24        To achieve this Government established an Agricultural Marketing
Corporation, whose objective as stated in Proclamation 105 of 1976 was "to execute
the Government's policy in the fields of grain marketing, procurement and
distribution of inputs and maintaining national grain reserves" (Annex 8, Appendix
1, SAR). This was t be elaborated on further in directives of the Minister of
Agriculture in 1977 which were to "ensure effective coordination and cooperation
among all agencies and entities concerned with the implementation of the project"
and would cover the following topics (Annex 8, Appendix 2, SAR):
(a) the close correlation of the seasonal and
geographical price variations to cost and the
stabilization of prices between years;
(b) the assurance of timely and efficient supply of
inputs to the(MOA) marketing centers/cooperatives
and State Farms and the removal of produce in such
a way as to avoid congestion and bad service to
farmers;
(c) the decrease of the marketing margin between the
producers and the wholesale level and thereby
improving producer prices;
(d) the assurance of proper produce supply
distribution;
(e) the assurance that costs including depreciation
and interest on capital employed must be covered".
2.25        Although not stated as such in the SAR, a key Bank (and possibly MOA)
objective in undertaking the project was to guarantee adequate production incentives
to peasant farmers, and support growth in agricultural output. The lack of clarity
in the statement of project objectives, and the potential conflict between the
Government's agenda, and that of the Bank, are indicative of the difficulties which
would surround the project during implementation.



- 10 -
Proiect Description
2.26        The Grain Storage and Marketing Project had a dual character, focussing
both on Government policy towards the grain market, and on the development of
Government grain marketing infrastructure. It was a policy project in the sense
that it aimed at stabilizing prices over seasons and between years, and at relating
geographical price differences closely to costs. The Project was also to reduce
marketing margins and redistribute the savings to producers and consumers. In order
to provide producers with production incentives, farmgate prices were to be set
sufficiently high to provide a fair return to use of improved inputs, notably
chemical fertilizers. Consumer prices were not to exceed adjusted import parity
prices but could fall short of these, depending on the Government's capacity to
subsidize the necessary cereal imports. A multi-channeled grain marketing system
was envisioned. The Government was to stabilize prices within a price range, and to
buy and release grain to the extent required. Within the range the Government was
to be free to set day-day prices in competition with the private traders. For the
Project to succeed in this endeavor, improved market intelligence and more accurate
and timely crop forecasting was essential and from the onset integrated into the
Project. Upgrading of market infrastructure, improved marketing practices and
supply of agricultural inputs were other components of the Project.
2.27        On the infrastructure side, to enable handling of grain at the intended
volume the Government grain marketing organization required additional
infrastructure, in particular grain warehouses and transport.
2.28        The trading operation was to be carried out by the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC), previously the Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC), an
autonomous organization under the Ministry of Agriculture, while the market
intelligence, market infrastructure, and marketing improvement aspects were to be
managed by the Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA), previously the Ethiopian Grain Board
(EGB), an autonomous organization under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Ministry of Agriculture and its Crop Information Unit (CIU), later named the Crop
Surveillance Unit (CSU) were responsible for improving crop forecasting. An IDA
Credit 789-ET for US dollars 24 million to support this project was signed on June
9, 1978 and became effective on September 7 the same year. The project was to be
finalized by December 31, 1981.
2.29        Within the above framework, the project with a total cost of USS 36.6
million, of which IDA would contribute US$ 24.0 million, provided support for 3
entities: AMC, EGA and the CIU. Within AMC, the project provided the infrastructure
necessary for intervention in the grain trade, financing investments in storage and
office facilities, vehicles, a headquarters building, and incremental permanent
trading capital. Assistance to AMC management, market improvements and improved
crop forecasting through EGA and the CIU would streamline AMC's operations while
addressing the policy objectives of the project.
2.30        AMC was initially under the Ministry of Agriculture.  By full
development (1980181), AMC was to purchase 475,000 MT per year. Purchases of
grains, oilseed and pulses from different sources would be as follows: MOA purchase
centers (161,000 MT from 265 centers), State Farms (75,000 NT), private traders
(139,000 MT) and imports (100,000 MT). At full development, public wholesale trade
was to make up 45% of total wholesale trade, estimated at 1.1 million tons. A
produce grading system was foreseen. It was also anticipated that within a range,



- 11 -
the lower Imit determined by import parity and subsidy considerations, AMC would be
free to fix its purchase prices. Prices were further to reflect costs of seasonal
storage and geographical location.
2.31        ANC was set up to sell through flour mills, oil mills, private
wholesalers and retailers, institutional buyers and exporters or foreign buyers.
Annual input distribution by 1980/81 was calculated to reach 137,000 MT (mainly
fertilizers), and was to be tendered, accepted, received and delivered by AMC. In
order to accomplish these targets, the IDA credit would fully or partially finance
construction of 350,000 MT of storage facilities (250,000 MT for produce, and 50,000
MT each for inputs and security reserves). Included under the project were also
weighbridges, cleaners, conveyor belts, platform scales, vehicles and trucks. The
Bank credit was to cover part of the permanent trading capital, international
employment of seven key management staff, and specialist assistance in training and
systems planning.
2.32        The EGA under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry by Proclamation No.
112, 1977 was to have undertaken the licensing of wholesale traders, maintenance of
hygiene standards and reporting on movements and stocks of grain. Licensing by EGA
applied to major wholesale traders whereas local municipalities licensed minor
traders. Provisions were also made to provide matching loans for improvements in
local markets. Finally, EGA was to operate a market Intelligence system, to be used
for determining AMC prices, size of imports, and scope for buffer stocking. EGA was
also to analyze the efficiency of state marketing in relation to the traditional,
private system. To this end EGA's funds were allocated for vehicles, equipment and
operating costs to cover salaries and training of some Ethiopian staff and
employment of five international specialists.
2.33        Improved crop forecasts were essential for determining price ranges
within which AMC was to operate. Support was given under the project to the Crop
Information Unit in MOA. Under the project some Ethiopian salaries and operating
costs, an international specialist and an investigation of prospects for using
satellite Images in crop forecasting were to be financed.
TIl. Implementation
Start-Up
3.01        Relatively few problems arose during the start-up period.  AMC and its
predecessor EGC had been operating for a number of years. Market intelligence,
market improvement and crop forecasting were already handled by EGAIEGB and MOA.
Some delay in credit effectiveness was caused by the late payment of permanent state
trading capital to AMC by the Ministry of Finance, and the due date was therefore
extended to September 15, 1978. Prequalification for the 1978 storage construction
program was advertised early in the year. Two overseas applications were received.
Pressed to have storage capacity ready for next harvest AMC, with Bank's approval on
an exceptional basis, advertized for local tenders for all the ten stores (115,000
MT) to be constructed in the first year. Tender documents for trucks were approved
by the Bank in February 1979 and entailed an upward revision from 15 to 40 trailers
(in addition to 40 trucks). Selection of the HQ building site, and tendering for



- 12 -
design and construction did not commence as per the implementation schedule but was
substantially delayed.
3.02        Right from the beginning AMC signalled a wish to speed up the
implementation of the project. Store construction, equally distributed over the
years at appraisal, would be more concentrated in the earlier years, and the storage
capacity constructed was to be increased if possible.
3.03        Institutional development at AMC progressed relatively well.  All key
staff mentioned in the DCA were appointed before signing the agreement. The
professional quality and experience of these staff had then been reviewed by the
Bank. There were indications though, that expatriate consultants in systems
planning and training would not be recruited as foreseen in the appraisal report.
Of the seven key staff to be hired by AMC only two ended up being expatriates.
3.04        Staffing up EGA met with serious difficulties.  Bilateral recruitment of
technical assistance could not be finalized. AMC approached FAO to recruit 3 staff
for the Market Intelligence Department but a delay of a year was estimated before
the department would operate effectively. Recruitment co the Internal Market
Department was expected to be even further delayed.
3.05        Equally discouraging was the lack of progress in setting up the Crop
Surveillance Unit in MOA. Disputes regarding how crop forecasting was to be
organized steered interest away from the issue of recruiting expatriate staff.
Coordination between the agencies was poor.
3.06        At an early stage agreement was reached with the Bank on formats for
quarterly reporting from the three organizations concerned. The first supervision
report of October 1978 made some interesting observations on AMC's adherence to the
pricing policys 'The appraisal report intended that producer prices be stablilized
at levels high enough to provide an incentive to the farmer to use fertilizer
together with yield raising inputs and practices. In fact the free market price has
more than tripled in the last four years, moving above the upper limit, and putting
AMC at a disadvantage with respect to private grain merchants in areas where peasant
associations and cooperatives are not strong enough, or not willing, to insist that
AMC's price be respected. AMC is trying to expand its purchasing operation at a
time when a grain marketing authority should either be selling its reserves (which
AMC does not yet have) or staying out of the market. AMC's activities add to demand
and probably drive the free market and black market prices up".
Revisions in the Physical Infrastructure
3.07         Warehouses:  A construction program for 343,000 MT at 18 locations was
agreed on with IDA (GOE letter received November 28, i977) and was the basis for the
SAR estimates and targets. Cost of construction was estimated at Br 24 million.
This program was subjected to substantial modification and discussion in the course
of project execution. At issue were: (i) storage capacity at a site being over or
under estimated in light of production potential; (ii) favouritism in the allocation
of storage to serve State Farm production; (iii) AMC's desire to speed up
construction, and finalize the program in less than the targeted four years; (iv)
the need to take into consideration an additional 260,000 MT at 30 sites, to be
constructed with USSR and GOE financing; and (v) AMC's desire to claim reimbursement
for stores built in 1977, prior to the signing of the credit. Agreement was finally



- 13 -
reached on IDA financing for construction of some 202,500 MT at 22 sites. This was
initially to cost Br 18.7 million. The cost eventually escalated to Br 28.7 million
after ancillary facilities, site improvements, and variation orders had been
included. The reduction in volume was necessitated in order to accommodate a sharp
increase in construction costs, from the Br 98/MT (including contingencies)
estimated at appraisal, to Br 142/MT by the time construction had been completed.
3.08        The 10 locations in the first year program, were awarded to the Rural
Projects Agency (RPA) a Government force account construction organization under the
Ministry of Public Works. This agency was later known as EBCA (the Ethiopian
Building and Construction Authority). This award was approved by the Bank on an
exceptional basis. It appears International Competitive Bidding was attempted, but
produced unsatisfactory responses. Eventually RPAIEBCA was awarded some 60Z of the
contracts, with the remainder being awarded under local competitive bidding.
Private contractors ended up building 13 stores with a total capacity of 85,000 MT
and all the site works. Considerable delays were recorded before RPA started work.
The lack of construction materials was coupled with the fact that the country
experienced an upsurge in public building, much of it assigned to RPA. With respect
to design and quality control, construction of AMC stores met with problems. The
initial set of stores required a series of modifications for instance of ventilation
and moisture proofing of floors. Scrutiny of stores and sites revealed that
ancillary facilities were needed for stores already constructed under the Credit, as
well as for stores about to be built. These facilities included small offices, bag
storage, fumigation rooms and other items. Site works and access roads were also
included at a later date for certain IDA stores.
3.09        Another proposed revision/addition to the construction program entailed
rehabilitation of existing stores. Objections were raised to this activity by AMC
on the grounds that rehabilitation was not economically justifiable. The
rehabilitation was not eventually included in the IDA Credit.
3.10       AMC, on the insistence of the Bank, strengthened its Technical
Department to supervise civil works. Also, under Bank pressure, an expatriate
storage engineer was recr.ited, arriving in July 1981, and staying for 2 years. In
January 1981 AMC entered into a formal agreement with EBCA for all consultancy work
for the Aesign and supervision of construction of grain stores and oncillary
facilities. Initially, the Architecture and Engineering Department of this
organization did not perform according to expectations, although performance
improved over time. Performance was particularly dissatisfactory in site drainage
and road works. Invitations for bids were advertised in 1983 to contract access
roads and site drainage to private or Government contractors. Five contracts were
awarded to private firms, another two were given to ETCA (Ethiopian Transport
Construction Authority) and the remaining sites, for which no responsive bids were
received, were to be handled by EBCAIETCA. However, on the direct instruction by
the Minister, EBCA/ETCA were advised not to accept further contracts, due to their
strained capacity. Retendering and renegotiation resulted in 4 private contractors
winning the 16 awards.
3.11        The building program was completed in November 1984 though certain
remedial works were still to be undertaken by the contractors prior to final
acceptance and payment of retention money. Problems listed for the AMC warehouse
construction program were not unique but shared with several other projects. In
addition to lack of construction materials, it became increasingly difficult for



- 14 -
private contractors to operate in Ethiopia from 1975 and onwards. The final
position of the storage construction program is summarized belows
Final Status of Construction
Agreement at          Final
Appraisal _/          Status b/
Sites  X                            18                       22
Stores t                            -                        31
Capacity:                           343,000 NT               202,500 MT
Total Cost Stores  t                Br 33.5 million c/       Br 28.7 million
Cost per MT  :                      Br 98/MT c/              Br 142/MT
EBCA Construction  :                                         17,500 MT
Private Construction  s                                      85,000 MT
Total Cost HQ Building :            Br 0.9 million c/        Br 5.4
Execution Period  :                 4 years                  7 years
a/ Letter received November 28, 1977
b/ Supervision Report of December 7, 1984
c/ With physical and price contingencies
3.12         Headquarters Building:  The implementation schedule in the SAR had
construction of the HQ building starting at effectiveness. In January 1979 a Bank
mission reviewed the funds needed for the HQ building and agreed to the Ethiopian
request for a reallocation, bringing the amount for the building up to USS 1.2
million. A designer was then selected and began to work. It was soon found that
the allocation was too small and the design work was suspended. After prolonged
discussions clearance was given by the Bank in April 1981 to proceed with design
work for a building costing up to US$ 2.4 million (Br 5 million). The new design
consultant had documents ready by the end of December 1981. Only in May 1982 was
the contract advertized. Only one bid was received. Construction eventually
started in October 1982.  Good progress was made and no serious problems
encountered. The building was provisionally accepted in October 1984. Savings
permitted the addition of one story making the building 5 stories high. However,
the contract cost (US$ 2.5 million) by far exceeded the initial estimate in the
appraisal report (US$ 0.43 million). The plan to house EPID and AMC in a common HQ
building never materialized, as AMC moved to the Ministry of Domestic Trade in 1980.
3.13        Computer System: A mini-computer was purchased at start-up.  The
Swedfarm Efficiency Study of 1984/85 recommended a major updating of the system with
16 terminals distributed though the HQs and 16 micro-computers stationed at branch
offices and HQ. After Bank approval, invitations for bids were issued in November
1984. The bid had to be retendered due to objections from some of the bidders over
the 'normalizing' procedure that was used to make the bids comparable. The computer
was eventually installed in late 1985, at a total cost of some US$ 468,000 including
spares, training and installation.
3.14        Garage Eguipme.it and Tools:  Not forseen in the appraisal report, AMC
came to the conclusion that improved internal capacity to service and repair
vehicles was needed. After obtaining Bank approval an invitation for bids was



- 15 -
advertised in October 1983. AMC staff dealing with the bid were not experienced
with the Bank's evaluation procedures. The resulting delay made a request for
extension of bid validity necessary. Award winning companies were informed by April
1984.
Reportina and Financial Covenants
3.15       Reporting was poor.  Considerable time elapsed before quarterly progress
reports were presented. These came mainly from AMC, and were often late. The few
reports received were descriptive rather than analytical. The poor performance of
EGA and CIU is to be attributed to the fact that neither of the organizations became
effective within the project framework.
3.16       For several years the Project was 3 years behind in its accounts and
audits.   This was partly caused by the time needed to get the computerized
accounting system fully operational, and partly by the confusion which resulted from
expansion into far flung regions. Methods of controlling accuracy, and transferring
stock and financial information to HQ from the branch officers have only gradually
been perfected. The accounts are only recently being brought up to date.
Institution Building
3.17       The project was to establish a tightly knit institutional framework for
intervening in the grain market. Policies and prices were to be formulated by EGA,
where the analytical capacity was to be developed, and executed through AMC on the
basis of data gathered by the CIU. This framework fell apart early in the project.
In 1980 the EGA was disbanded, and its functions spread to AMC, MDT and the
Ethiopian Standards Institute. CSO took over the data gathering tasks of the CIU,
Which was also phased out in 1980.  In the same year, AMC was transferred to the
Ministry of Domestic Trade from MOA. This contributed to weakening the production
incentive aspect of its operations, with emphasis now given to the consumer side of
the equation. The Bank went along with these developments, as they unfolded,
accepting the explanations on where the various activities would be assigned. The
overall effect of these changes on policy implementation did not become apparent to
the Bank until 1983.
3.18        AMC:  Of the seven key posts listed in the Credit agreement, two were
filled with expatriates: the Deputy Commercial Manager and the Deputy Financial
Manager. A narrowing down of the job descriptions preceded a premature phasing out
of these staff in 1980, one on a dubious charge of poor performance. In 1980 the
Bank suggested the use of an international firm of chartered accounts to undertake a
system analysis study. The suggestion was turned down, with AMC arguing that the
Ethiopian Audit Service Corporation could manage such a study. In 1981 the Bank
again prompted AMC to review the need for expatriate staff, with no results. An
expatriate storage engineer served with AMC from 1981 to 1983. After lengthy
discussions between the Bank and AMC, an all encompassing study of AMC's operations
was carried out in 1984/85 by an international consultancy firm. The heavy
technical assistance input foreseen in the appraisal report was never made. The
initial plan of backstopping from an international company was never implemented.
3.19       AMC experienced a rapid succession of general managers and by 1980 had
had five incumbents in two years. The organization has gone through two major
reorganizations (11 and 4 senior staff removed respectively). Despite the



- 16 -
relatively high priority given to AMC, full and qualified staffing was never
completed. Deficiencies were apparent in accounting and computer management, and in
supervision of construction work.
3.20       Training of staff never lived up to the targets in the appraisal report.
Early problems with poor field staff performance in store management and produce
control gave rise to week long courses In 1980. Repeater courses have been arranged
and in later years accountants, storekeepers and purchasers have received
introductory summer courses lasting one month. Only three long term scholarships
were granted and financed from the Credit during the Project, in the fields of
general agricultural marketing, computer science and store management. Training
seems to have been intensified towards the end of the project. The Ethiopian
W.nagement Institute carried out short courses for high level staff. Short
scholarships abroad have been given in grain marketing and distribution systems
under bilateral financing, and in computer programming (financed by IDA as part of
the updating of the computer system).
3.21       Better coordination with other organizations was part of the
institutional development objective. With the transfer of AMC to the Ministry of
Domestic Trade 1980, the link to the farmers through MPP was finally severed. By
then EPID/MOA had long since stopped buying grain for delivery to AMC.
3.22       EGA:  By mid 1979 recruitment of 3 expatriate staff through FAO was
stopped, pending reorganization of the Ministry of Trade into two ministries. The
following year EGA was dissolved with Bank acquiescence.  AMC was henceforth to
manage the market intelligence, while licensing, price control issues, data on
private trade, market improvements and market infrastructure establishment was given
over to the Ministry of Domestic Trade. The Ethiopian Standards Institute was to
handle matters related to quality and grading of produce. No claims for
reimbursements were ever filed under the Credit for the Marketing Infrastructure
Improvement Fund.
3.23        Crop Forecastings An FAO statistician was eventually recruited to the
Crop Surveillance Unit (CSU) of MOA, and a series of studies were undertaken. In
1980 the crep survey function was transferred to the Central Statistical Office
(CSO). Little initiative was shown by CSU in investigating the possible use of
satellite imagery. The transfer to CSO did not prove detrimental to crop
forecasting work in Ethiopia per se. However, the CSO crop surveys provided are of
little use in pricing decisions, as the results are only known well after harvest.
IDA demands that CSU should recruit a survey statistician and a data processor were
met through the reorganization, as CSO is well staffed in these skills.
Coordination between the project components naturally suffered.



- 17 -
Policy Implementation
3.24       Before, during and after the project was implemented, grain marketing
and pricing policies underwent a series of partially planned, partially spontaneous
changes. As a result of these changes, project policy objectives became impossible
to achieve. The policy amendments are further described in paras 3.25 - 3.39.
Prices were introduced that were low, inflexible and un4form across the country. To
ensure that Government had sufficient grain to supply the army, selected
organizations and urban areas, forced delivery quotas were imposed on merchants and
farmers. Farmers and merchants were in principle allowed to sell surplus grain
outside the forced deliveries, at free market prices. In the major surplus
producing areas merchants were in fact severely restricted in their operations, and
were often barred from trading. Local consumer prices as a consequence became
generally depressed. This policy meant that, while production incentives for
farmers became inadequate, the retail prices in major consumer centers like Addis
Ababa became artificially high. According to the ten-year development plan,
Ethiopia was supposed to socialize the grain trade before 1993/94, and was as part
of this target going to establish purchase and distribution centers in all weredas
(districts) of the nation. These restrictive policies in grain pricing and
marketing were pursued until December 1987 when the government decided to: (i)
increase official grain purchase prices by 7.7Z; (ii) remove restrictions on inter-
regional grain trade; and (iii) licence private traders in regions where traders had
been banned from operating. A Price Studies and Policy Institute was established to
do the necessary analytical work to support a flexible pricing policy. These
pricing and marketing policy improvements came when the project was already
completed.
3.25        Evolution of Government Policy:  In the Declaration on Economic Policy
of Socialist Ethiopia of February 7, 1975 the Government firmly established the
roles of the private and public sectors in trade (para 2.23). This declaration
marked the beginning of a decade of increasingly strong Government intervention into
the grain marketing system of Ethiopia. A brief summary of measures introduced
since 1975 is set forth below.
3.26       Price regulations of 1975 were valid for Addis Ababa only, with prices
in other areas to be decided by local price committees. It -as soon found necessary
to increase prices to reflect seasonal costs of storing grain. This practice was
maintained to 1980/81, when it was decided prices were to remain constant throughout
the year. Seasonal price increases ranged up to Br 8/quintal. The prices for the
1975 season were given as single point estimates while subsequent regulations up to
1979/80 presented price ranges. Pricing in 1979/80 was a special case as EGA,
dismantled that year, no longer elaborated proposals, and pricing decisions were
left to local initiatives. Arssi region thus had a uniform price but Gojjam and
Gondar had specific prices for 40 and 10 towns respectively.
3.27       Price regulations up to 1977/78 were in principle to apply for all
factors on the market. From 1977/78 on, regulated prices were valid only for grain
channeled through AMC. Quotas were established in 1977/78, when merchants and
peasant organizations were obliged to deliver a certain proportion of their purchase
volumes to ANG at regulated prices. This reflects AMC's increasing difficulties in
competing with private merchants - a rather natural outcome, as AMC had to strictly
abide by published prices, in a time when open market prices were increasing. The
new policy was enforced by controlling grain movements along main roads. Local



- 18 -
initiatives in Aresi, Gojjam, Gondar and Shoa regions meant that the forced
deliveries were much greater than had been planned.   In order to compete, AMC had
to pay at the upper end of the price range regardless of quality. Price
differentiation on the basis of quality was eventually discontinued. The system was
simplified still further when panterritorial pricing was put into effect in 1980/81.
3.28       Delivery quotas were initially set at 302 of traded volumes for
merchants and 100 qt per peasant association. In 1980/81 the quota was increased to
50X per merchants. Quotas for farmers were decided on an individual basis depending
on estimated marketable surplus and the necessity of meeting targets. Determination
of quotas has been gradually refined through the years, and the crops to be
delivered by merchants and farmers' organizations are now quantified, so that AMC
does not end up with low value crops only. Substitution is allowed between food and
oil crop quotas, but in general high value crops cannot be replaced with low value
crops.
3.29       In the four surplus regions mentioned above the forced deliveries from
merchants reached close to 100%. In Gojjam merchants were actually b-nned from
taking part in grain trade in 1984. A SIDA study in Arssi region in 1985 confirms
the picture of merchants gradually leaving the grain marketing system. Along with
the tightening of Government control of grain in 1980/81, suppliers of AMC were also
offered higher fixed margins for their services than previously. Service
cooperative ard merchants from here onwards received Br 4/quintal for grain
delivered to AMC. This more than compensates for costs and is in marked variation
with previous rules when service cooperatives and merchants were typically paid Br 1
and Br 3 per quintal respectively.
3.30       The origin of the quota system appears to be the need to guarantee that
AMC obtains a certain share of the grain mArket. During the National Development
Campaigns, Government organizations were urged to quantify targets for their
activities and were rated according to their performance vis a vis their targets.
Purchase targets agreed between the Central Planning Supreme Council and AMC were
then also interpreted as the obligatory contribution of merchants and farmers to the
Development Campaigns. Fulfillment of quota targets became the key objective, at
all levels of the system.
3.31       Even though quota deliveries were imposed, merchants and farmers were in
principle free to sell remaining grain at unregulated free market prices. In
practice, however, movement controls and limited local consumer demand often meant
local free market prices were severely depressed. Also, a number of economic and
social sanctions could affect the individual farmer or trader who took advantage of
higher prices in the free market. Farmers not selling the required quantities could
be refused access to the cooperative retail store. Traders could find their
licenses not renewed. Service cooperatives which did not fulfill their obligations
could receive less consumer goods from the Ethiopian Domestic Distribution Company,
a source that has become important for the supply of essential goods.
3.32        AMC Operations:  In 1976/77, AMC operated in competition with private
traders. Middlemen served as buying agents for AMC. Local buying prices were
derived from the prices prevailing in Addis Ababa with deductions for AMC costs. At
this time AMC attempted to stabilize the urban market through releasing grain at
times when consumer prices increased abnormally. There were difficulties in



- 19 -
operating retail shops, but AMC found that the emerging urban dwellers' associations
could be used for this purpose.
3.33       Following the land reform proclamation the agricultural production
system underwent significant changes. Commercial farms had to be managed as State
Farms or were broken up and distributed to peasants. New State Farms were
established. Several Government organizations felt concerned about the food supply
for their employees and organized their own purchasing operations in the
rountryside. Local control initiatives made private traders cautious about
operating openly. Executions of merchants in Addis Ababa on accusations of having
hoarded grain, and attempts by EGA to roadblock the major roads to Addis Ababa and
force Incoming grain to be sold at regulated prices had immediate and negative
effects on the supply of grain to the capital.   The need to mix maize and wheat
flour to be able to supply urban consumers gave rise to widespread dissatisfaction.
The Government also faced the problems of feeding a growing army, especially after
the outbreak of the war with Somalia.
3.34       It appears that AMC found it increasingly cumbersome to operate
according to the principles set out in the appraisal report. First, AMC had to
relinquish the grading system, the seasonal price increases and the geographical
differentiation of prices. Adherence to the strict relation of prices to fertilizer
costs and incremental yields was also taken out of AMC's control through the
establishment of pricing committees (where AMC participated). Not even the fixing
of day-to-day prices remained: 'As AMC did not possess the reserves required to
intervene, the EGA price ranges collapsed to single point upper estimates, adjusted
for different grain grades and levels of impurity". (Supervision Report of January
1979). Both EPID and CADU/ARDU were initially engaged in purchasing grain. EPID,
bothered by its public image of becoming more of a distribution organization than an
extension organization, combined with the fact that the regulated prices were too
low and detracted from the value of EPID in the eyes of the farmers, decided to
withdraw from this activity. CADUIARDU, aggravated by unrest among the peasants who
claimed that CADU/ARDU was exploiting them, withdrew also from grain marketing.
3.35       Implementation of policies envisioned in the SAR was further weakened by
the lack of a market intelligence and crop forecasting function, due to the
dismantling of EGA. A Back-to-Office Report of December 1980 states: "There is
clear evidence that AMC has no grain distribution policy and in prior years had not
released sufficient grain when the seasonal grain price was highest".
3.36       The transfer of AMC to the Ministry of Domestic Trade in 1980 signified
an increased emphasis on consumer interests. It marked the end of the old battle
between MDT and MOA over where AMC belonged. For AMC the size of purchased volumes
became more important than producer incentives and reduced margins. This thinking
is reflected in the letter of the Minister of Finance to IDA regarding the transfer
of AMC in January, 1980: "...with regard to grain marketing it has become imperative
to ensure, amongst other things, the marketing of agricultural produce at reasonable
prices to consumers, improvements in the marketing and institutional arrangements
with the aim of providing a clearer definition of the respective roles of Government
institutions, mass organizations and private traders engaged in wholesale and retail
trade, and the speedy construction and operation of additional storage capacities".
3.37       Government clearly signalled its intention of going ahead with the full
socialization of the grain trade. This ambition may have existed before its



- 20 -
official declaration in the context of elaborating the Ten-Year Plan. There were
numerous local initiatives to control and in the end socialize trade that the
Government could not or did not curb. The Ten-Year Plan (1983/84-1993/94) is very
clear that the public share of wholesale trade is expected to build up from 46% in
1985/86 to 60% in 1988/89 and finally 1002 in 1993/94. Given the initial storage
capacity of some 577,000 MT, AMC would in 1993/94 have stores totalling 2,200,000
MT. It would be represented in each wereda, and would have the capacity to buy all
wholesale grain even at a stock turnover rate of 1. At project prices, construction
costs would total some Br 228 million.
3.38       The initial Bank supervision missions concentrated on progress and
problms in implementing the construction program and made commendable efforts to
get this finalized. In the late '70's, with grain prices high on the free market,
and quotas small, the issue of production incentives did not arise. As quotas grew
in the early '80's, this isrne should have received more attention. Even as late as
March 1982, a supervision report comments on the issue of policy implementation in
the context of extending the credit Closing Date as follows:
"Mission recommends that AMC's request for extension should not be
conditional upon prior receipt of a statement of GOEs marketing
policy.
(1) GOE is not in violation of any covenant regarding the share of
marketing,
(2) it would seem to be counterproductive to stall and embarrass AMC at
a time when there is a good chance of successfully completing the
Project's Construction Program."
3.39        The same stand is demonstrated in a telex reply from RMEA in September
the same year in reply to pointed queries from Washington regarding the policy
imnact: "(1) Project's institutional arrangements quickly out of date in changing
environment; (2) Could AMC even if given the responsibility, have managed policy
reforms? (3) Delicate situation made it necessary to concentrate on infrastructure.
Enforce policy reforms may prove counterproductve".
3.40        Subsequent supervision reports have in increasing detail examined the
benefits generated by the Project, and argued with ever stronger emphasis that
Project benefits were not up to expectations, possibly zero or even negative, and
that the Grain Storage and Marketing Project has to be dealt with in the context of
PADEP negotiations on production incentives. In 1984, after assessing the project's
achievements, the Bank decided to label it a 'problem project".
Proiect Costs
3.41        Actual project costs by major Project components, estimated based on IDA
disbursements and AMC documentation totalled 88Z of appraisal estimates:



- 21 -
Grain Storage and Marketint Pro1ect Costs
(US$ '000)
-----Actual Costs ------     Appraisal    Actual as
Type of Costs                GOE     IDA        Total     Estimate  a/   2 of A2r.
Civil Works                 4,087   12,262     16,349       16,598          982
Vehicles/Equipment            132    4,462      4,594        3,610         127%
Tech. Assistance                0      631        631        4,153          15%
Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund               0        0          0         669           0O
Operating Costs               165      494        659        1,380          48S
Permanent Trading
Capital                    2,053    6,150      8,203       8,210          1O00
Total                 6.437   23.999      30,436      34.620           88S
_l  Including contingencies on all components except
Permanent Trading Capital.
3.42    The differences from appraisal estimates reflect the organizational changes
that took place during the project period and the small disbursements that were
incurred under EGA and CIU.
3.43     Given the heavy emphasis on warehouse construction and the frequent
amendments made in the program it is of interest to note that construction of one
metric ton storage capacity was estimated at appraisal to cost Br 98 with
contingencies. Actual costs were Br 142/MT. The cost overruns originated from the
general cost escalations, design changes and addition of ancillary works, and site
improvements.
3.44    Cost estimates are believed to be accurate with the exception of costs
incurred in the Crop Surveillance Unit where no separate audit inspection existed.
Disbursements and Financing
3.45     The Credit was closed on September 30, 1985 after having been fully
disbursed. The original closing date of December 31, 1981 was extended to December
31, 1984 and later to September 30, 1985. Disbursements lagged behind the appraisal
estimates, even when considering the delays caused by the extended negotiations and
signature procedures (see Key Project Data Table in front).
3.46     Comparison of actual disbursements with appLaisal estimates confirms the
major changes made in the project. There was a clear shift into civil works and
equipment, at the expense of technical assistance and other institution building
expenditures.



- 22 -
Comparison of Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US Dollars '000)
Credit                        Actual as
Categorv                      Aareement  Actual   Diff.       I of Apyr.
1.  Civil Works Costs, AMC    8,050    12,262    4,212         1522
2.  (a) Vehicles, AMC         1,390      4,454    3,064        320%
(b) Vehicles, EGA            50          8      -42         162
(c) Vehicles CIU             10          -      -10          02
3.  (a) Tech. Asst. AMC       1,230        631      -599        51S
(b) Tech. Asst. EGA         820          -     -820         O0
(c) Tech. Asat. CIU         170          -     -170         0O
4.  Operating
Expenditures, EGA           480        143      -337        302
5.  MIIF Loans, EGA             320          -      -320         02
6.  Operating
Expenditures, CIU           260        352        92       1352
7.  Local Purchases of
Produce                   6,150      6,150         -       1OO2
8.  Unallocated               5.060                    -       N.A.
Total                 24,000    24,000          0        1002
Implementation Schedule
3.47        In spite of Government's desire to speed up construction,
implementation of the project was delayed, in all aspects. Construction
fell behind schedule due to the need for additional facilities and site
works not foreseen in store design. HQ construction was not started
until 4 years behind schedule. Government delayed continuously on the
hiring of technical assistance. Policy implementation has been
commented on above.
Procurement
3.48        AMC was able to follow the Bank procedure for national and
international procurement relatively well, with certain exceptions under
civil works (para 3.01). Problems arose from the lack of private
contractors with sufficient capacity to undertake the IDA program, and
the pressure from Government to direct all civil works to its own
organizations. In the end, it appears civil works for grain stores were
given to the government construction agency, until a capacity limitation
was reached, at which time private contractors were brought in.
Applications for reimbursement from IDA have also been well managed.
Bank internal review procedures for civil works have been slow at times.
The long delays in approving the designs of the HQ building, although a
consequence of disagreements in principle between Bank and Government,
could have been reduced.



- 23 -
IV.   AMC 0neratint Performance
4.01        In a relatively short period of time AMC has managed to
acquire control of substantial volumes of grain either from Imports,
purchases from State Farms or from peasant farmers. Purchases from
peasant farms have not taken place in competition with private traders
but through forced deliveries at low prices. Implementation of the
schedule in the appraisal report was delayed one year. Figures in the
appraisal report do not go beyond 1980181 but the report assumes that
Ethiopia would in the long run be self-sufficient in grain. Imports
should consequently be below 1980181 levels. Purchases from the peasant
sector would have to increase slightly to maintain the market share
aimed at. In the table below the development of AMC purchases is shown
for three select years.
Total AMC Purchases (O00MT):   a/
Imports     Peasant Sector   State Farms        Total       Actual as
Ap. Actual  APP.    Actual  APP. Actual  APP.   Actual  2 of APP.
1978179   100     20       7       102       60      48    340       170      50
1980/81   100     52     161       257      100     180    500       489      98
1985/86     -    322     333       272      100     164    472       758     161
a/ Appraisal figures include AMC purchases from private trade.
4.02         Except for the first year of the project, AMC never had the chance of
setting its purchase price at market levels. Enforced quota deliveries were the
only means the organization had of meeting its targets. Actual purchases from the
peasant sector have varied considerably throughout the year and have not been a
steady source of supply. Stabilizing free market prices has proved even more
complex. Purchase targets from the peasant sector, imposed on AMC by the
Government, have not been possible to attain as is seen from the next table.
AMC Peasant Sectors Purchases
(000 MT)
Actual Purchases
Year                 Quota             Actual             As 2 of Quota
1978179                 -                 102                       -
1979180                 200               189                       95Z
1980/81                 273               257                       942
1981/82                 298               306                       1032
1982/83                 448               384                       862
1983184                 425               266                       63Z
1984/85                 248               115                       462
1985186                 345               272                       792
Source: AMC



- 24 -
4.03     Government estimation of possible purchase levels has changed over the
years. Failure of AMC to deliver the required quantities is partially caused by the
reluctance of farmers to part with increasingly larger amounts of grain at low
prices. For many years it also reflects the poor harvests or droughts. The crop
composition of AMC purchases has changed over the years. AMCs objective of
composition supplying its clients with minimum quantities of a given grain has been
harder to achieve as a consequence. The table below shows bow AMC has been unable
to secure sufficient quantities of teff - a strategic Ethiopian grain - but has
sometimes done remarkably well In barley, maize and wheat, crops which at times have
been hard to sell.
Total AMC Purchases. All Sources
('000 MT)
9122       1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981182  1982/83  1983/84  1984185  1985/6
Teff         11.5     42.6      84.3     71.3     84.5      72.9     28.0    61.6
Wheat        20.0      15.4    108.8    111.9    185.9    111.7      64.7   135.2
Barley       11.2     20.7      24.1     49.1     47.2       9.8     11.0    38.3
Sorghum       8.5     27.3      29.4     22.6     32.4      19.4      7.5    31.4
Maize        55.1    131.2      99.6     98.1     91.2    118.3      74.8    13.2
Others       48.1     37.2      90.7    106.1    132.6      77.9     45.2   156.3
Total       150.0    274.4    436.9    459.1    573.8    410.0    231.2   436.0
4.04     How large is the AMC's market share?  The appraisal used the concept of
wholesale trade, and estimated the size of the market at 1.1 million tons in
1980181, of which AMC was to have reached 452. According to the above data, and
assuming the volume of wholesale trade has remained static (along with production)
AMC controlled 402 of that market in 1980/81, 52X in 1982/83, and back to 402 in
1985186, all of them reasonable years for production. The ten-year plan of Ethiopia
also estimates the mrketable surplus at 1.1 million MT in 1984/85. Urban demand in
the same year amounted to around 1 million MT. Finally, the sum of regional
surpluses in 1982/83 was calculated to be 0.86 million MT. These different market
estimates are all meaningful indicators of the volume AMC's procurement should be
compared with. Irrespective of the choice of comparator, MC must be considered to
have acquired a substantial share of the market.
4.05     MC acquires most of its grain from the peasant sector from four surplus
regions. These regions become even more important in the years when the harvest is
below normal and are also the regions where quota deliveries and movement controls
have been enforced most severely.



- 25 -
Proportion of Peasant Sector Purchases from key Surplus Areas
1978/79  1979180  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984185  1985/86
Shoa            40.2     47.7     27.4      20.4     26.8     25.6     31.4    32.6
Gojjam          17.2     20.8    38.2    33.0        31.7     38.1     37.4    29.9
Arssi           21.3      9.2      13.9     21.4     21.5     18.8     14.7    19.8
Gonsar           3.6      4 .5     8.6      10.9      6.9      7.2      7.0      6.0
Sub total
4 Regions       82.3     75.2    88.1    85.7        86.9     89.7     90.5    88.3
Peasant Sector Purchases ('000 MT)
Total          102      189      257       306      384      206      114      272
4.06    As envisaged at appraisal a portion of AMC purchases would be from private
trades. As a result of the policy of barring merchants from the most important
surplus regions, merchants share of total deliveries from the Peasant Sector has
declined rapidly since 1981/82.
Proportion of AMC Purchases from
the Peasant Sector Obtained from Merchants
Year                   z
1981/82                 62
1982/83                 29
1983/84                 23
1984/85                 11
1985/86                  7
4.07    Distribution of grain has been confined to AMC's steady customers and
little has been used for market stabilization.  Government organizations like the
Ministries of Defence and Interior, the Food Corporation and the Central Food
Processing Corporation have a comparatively stable and significant demand. The
Relief and Rehabilitation Comiiission (RRC) supplies deficit areas with grains.
RRC's demandsfor transport add to AMC's logistical problems. By definition, RRC
requests for grain from AMC are usually increased in years when MC has limited
stocks due to below normal harvests. The Ethiopian Oilseeds and Pulses Export
Corporation (EOPEC) was AMC's customer, but it has now taken over many of the
purchasing activities for oil crops and pulses. Other customers of interest due to
their influence on food price stablization are the Basic Commodities Supply
Corporation (BSCS)--an organization that distributes grain in Addis Ababa through
the Kebelles--and distribution through AMC branch offices to improve the deficit
situation in selected towns outside of Addis Ababa. Together these two outlets
account for around 40 percent of AMC's distribution.



- 26 -
AMC Sales by Institution
Customer            1979180  1980181  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985186
Min. of Defense       31        23       38       30        29       37       40
Min. of Interior       14       17       12       13         5        6       11
C. Food Proc. Corp     2         4        8       11         2        4        6
EOPEC                  -        22       28       23       43         1        8
RRC                   58        83       30       41        80       24        2
BCSC (Kebelles)       32       109      152      139       112       89       99
Fcod Corpl. (Flour)   36        68      116      168      202       141       95
Others                28        73       17       25       40        31       14
Branch Offices        20        82       51       55       84        61       23
Total Sales          221       480      452      505      597       394      298
Total Purchases      274       437      459      574      410       231      436
4.08     A large share of AMC's sales are made on credit.  Although this share has
been reduced in recent years, 1985186 saw a return to previous levels.  If customers
do not settle their accounts when due, the interest costs become heavy for AMC.
Year        Percent of AMC's Distribution Sold on Credit
1981/82                      78%
1982/83                      72%
1983/84                      65Z
1984185                      512
1985/86                      76Z
4.09        The large volumes of grain handled by AMC have been purchased and
distributed at high cost both in terms of economic resources spent and in terms of
the effect on production. Some of the underlying inefficiencies of purchase and
distribution operations were analyzed in the AMC efficiency study. It was found
that arrangements for trensport from local purchase points were deficient. Often
grain had not been weighed and bagged when the transport arrived, sufficient grain
for a full truckload was not available, and several trucks would arrive
simultaneously at the AMC store to unload, which caused increased waiting time and
demurrage charges. The study further pointed out that truck and trailer combination
could be used more and that average transport charges per quintal and kilometer
could then be reduced. AMC, obliged by Government directives, collected grain
whenever offered for sale, which in many cases implies transport rates approaching
20 cents per quintal and kilometer. Purchases per purchase point have declined as
AMC accepted more centres (1,760 in 1987). Under the previous practice farmers
would bring their grain to the traditional markets for sale to AMC or others, from
which cheaper transport was possible to arrange. Utilization of AMC's own trucks Is
low compared to rented trucks. Fixed working hours, no shift drivers and longer
periods in garage are major factors behind this. Finally, in order to reduce the
number of loadings and unloadings, AMC should attempt to schedule transport directly
from the purchasing points to the final consumer, or to central storage in the main
consumer centers.



_ 27 -
4.10        Grain handling in AMC follows traditional practices in Ethiopia.  No
mechanical facilities are deployed, and 100 kg bags of grain are carried manually to
and from the trucks. Bag trollies, conveyer belts, platforms and smaller bags (say
50kg) could reduce costs. Bulk handling, in particular from the State Farms
directly to the mills, could bring additional savings that would give AMC an edge on
the competition.
4.11        AMC9a management of its purchases is affected by the very accentuated
peak load in the first few months of the purchase season. In the absence of any
price increases to farmers for sales after the peak period and aggravated by the
simultaneous distribution of fertilizers, AMC Imposes severe strains on the national
transport capacity. The storage capacity of AMC is also heavily taxed during the
peak season and significant volumes of grain have to be stored in the open air.
Despite careful preparation of wooded stonebeds, storage losses occur and the full
benefits of improved AMC warehouses are not obtained. AMC for a number of years
distributed fertilizers in line with its original objectives. To AMC, with limited
transport and storage capacity, this constituted an additional strain on resources.
The deficiencies of the input supply system are well documented and finally led to
the establishment of the Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation, which after
considerable start-up obstacles finally took over distribution in 1984185. The
quantities distributed by AMC were:
AMC Wholesale Fertilizer Distribution
(Quintals)
Year             MOA         State Farms      Others        Total
1977/78           37,361           7,746          676         45,783
1978/79           86,114          16,540        1,640         104,294
1979/80           54,446          29,649        4,246         88,341
1980181           12,596          25,535        2,542         40,673
1981/82           10,048          16,150        3,243         29,441
1982/83            3,025         141,750        6,828         151,603
1983/84           48,726          21,933        3,014         73,672
V.   AMC Institutional Development
5.01      Through the project a broad based public grain marketing organization has
been established.  Additional storage capacity has been constructed, though less
than planned in the appraisal and at a higher cost per unit. The management
capacity of AMC has improved but management control and monitoring is in need of
further upgrading. Decentralization of responsibilities to the regional offices is
a key to the improved management performance of AMC. The availability of management
information is conditional upon the successful collection of data in regional
offices, assisted by the introduction of micro computers, and speedy transmission of
regional information to the main frame computer at HQ. The establishment of an
efficient market intelligence function came to a standstill when the EGA was
dissolved. This activity has been slightly revived in 1986/87 but is still not up
to expectations. Several organizations have recently taken a keen interest in
developing their own market intelligence. An integrated approach under EGA was



- 28 -
envisioned at appraisal. The improvements in local markets which were supposed to
occur under the project, were never initiated. Quantitative crop forecasting has
shown some progress under the Central Statistical Office (CSO) where it was
transferred.
5.02          Modifications In the institutional structure of the project have made
much of the organizational build-up outlinsd in the appraisal repor: obsolete. AMC
has been turned ir.to an organization for purchasing set quantities of grain,
obtained from producers by Government order at fixed prices. Purchases are then
matched with the demands from clients. AMC obtains as much as It can from
producers, and then plays with allocations and monthly deliveries to customers in
such a way as to minimize discontent.  This is different from the mechanism designed
at appraisal, where AMC affected supply and demand through its large purchases in
open competition with private traders. The consciousness of marketing margins, the
need for market intelligence and for satisfactory produce control, which were
Important features of project design, have been downplayed. Storage and transport
capacity, however, have received added emphasis.
5.02           Manazement.  AMC has had a series of competent managers who have had
to shoulder the heavy burden of operating one of the most Important commercial
enterprises in Ethiopia. Their stay in office has typically been short. Attempts
have been made lately to broaden the management base to avoid having an excessive
number of staff report directly to the general manager. AMC is a large and complex
organization. A persisting problem for AMC management has been to develop a
monitoring and control system that would allow a higher degree of management by
exception. This problem is exacerbated by the technical difficulties of obtaining
information stored in regional and branch offices.
5.03           Accountinx/Information Processing.  The accounting backlog has
successfully been reduced. This has been assisted by the introduction of a
mainframe computer which, however, only constitutes the final link in a series of
otherwise manual processes. Through the decentralization of much accounting and
information processing work to the regions and the installation of micro computers
there, past obstacles may be resolved. To be successful this requires a major
training program, a backup capacity to make the micros and their operators perform'.
well, and a solution to the problem of tranferring information between regional
micros and the mainframe in Addis Ababa. The sheer size of the task ahead, and the
lack of programmers and systems analysts within AMC may indicate that the
difficulties have been underestimated.
5.04           Market intelligence is poor.  With EGAIEGB a good start had been
made. Addis Ababa wholesale and retail prices were published and circulated
regularly. Some market research was going on covering international markets and
prices. With the dismantling of EGA, market intelligence came to a standstill.
Some scattered attempts have been made by AMC to collect prices. A major effort in
this direction was made in 1986/87 when planning staff assigned to the regional
offices were given instructions, forms and a manual for collecting price and crop
forecast information. The point, however, is that market intelligence needs to be
collected and used continuously. As it now stands market intelligence is used once
yearly when the grain prices and quotas are discussed and then in a very ad hoc
manner. A revitalized market intelligence function needs a sophisticated analytical
and computation capacity, coupled with data collection. This is lacking at present
in AMC. Even at the CSO, six years of farmgate prices from some 500 rural areas



_ 29 -
remain unprocessed. Even if concern with prices is felt at the policy level, the
concern has not been communicated downwards in the organizations.
5.05           Crop Forecasting.  Some progress has been made in crop forecasting.
The CSO surveys have been gradually refined but still the sampling error of the
estimates is large. These surveys are useful for trend analysis but give no
guidance on price adjustments necessary in light of the approaching harvest. Other
sources like the RRC Early Warning System offer a potential for such purposes. Yet,
the limitations of the present information base cannot be critically assessed until
AMC has begun to use it for adjusting prices.
5.06           Quality Control and Loan Assessment.  A successful marketing
organization has to ensure that its products are priced so as to give a premium to
quality. Little quality control is practiced. All grain which meets certain low
standards on humidity and existence of impurities is accepted. Grain quality is
known to be poor with no signs of improvement. The enforced quota system and the
removal of the previous system with a premium for quality have caused a reduction in
the quality of AMC's grain. AMC does not regularly evaluate and publish the
quality characteristics of its produce. It is startling that so little has been
accomplished in assessing storage losses, and in finding alternative, cheaper and
better ways of storing, handling and treating the grain.
5.07           Transportation and Grain Handling.   This is an area where AMC has
invested much effort and resources. AMC traffic is given high priority by the
Government, and additional transport or storage capacity is obtained easily. Little
innovation has been tried, although scope exists for cutting margins through better
utilization of transport capacity, reducing the links in the transportation and
storage chain, increasing mechanization of grain loading unloading, storage and
transportation.
5.08           Training.  Only three scholarships were granted under the IDA
Credit. It is certain that IDA would have accepted fuller utilization of the
technical assistance category. Only 28% of it was used for scholarships. Several
other scholarships were given by other organizations but all at a fairly late stage.
Few staff responsible for the 'intellectualu functions of AMC were included in local
training courses. It should be recalled that Government at negotiations declared
expatriate staff overqualified for AMC and for a long time did not consider it
necessary to train the Ethiopians who filled the so called key posts.
5.09           Recruitment and staffinR.  Helped by its high priority, AMC has
managed to recruit the necessary staff. Exceptions are found in areas like computer
science and engineering. AMC, like other Government organizations, has also
received a share of the yearly output from universities and intermediate schools and
has to some extent been forced to add to the payroll irrespective of the need for
additional staff. In January 1986 AMC had 3,200 employees. Of these 252 had
university or secondary education. Only 182 of the staff were employed in
administrative or supervisory functions at HQ or the branch office.
5.10           The Core Question: AMC's Role.   Even in its new role as a transport
and storage organization, AMC has to be aware of the costs of carrying out these
functions. The efficiency study recommended a number of measures to reduce
operating margins. These recommendations are being studied but it is questionable
if AMC has the capacity to implement them. Under the Ten Year Plan, AMC is to have



- 30 -
a store, and purchase point in every wereda, a move which is in direct contradiction
to efficiency considerations. According to the efficiency study AMC's farmgate
prices could be raised by 30 percent in areas close to the capital. Nobody would
lose and production incentives could be Improved. Only when Government makes margin
reductions an organizational objective comparable to the present purchase target
will AMC start becoming an efficient marketing organization. It is a must for an
organization vith a yearly turnover of Br 300-400 million to set aside resources for
think tank functions, aiming at proper pricing methodologie-i, quality improvements,
or margin reduction. The technical component included in the appraisal was well
conceived in that a team of expatriates could have made a great contribution to
improving AMC's operating efficiency and policy performance.
VI. AMC Financial Performance
6.01          Since AMC is allowed to propose its own margins it should, assuming
that the cost accounting system is accurate, produce timely information and if
effectively used, break even or make the small profit that is included in the price
build-ups. Although this seems to have been the case in recent years, extremely
large deficits on operations were obtained for FY78 and FY81: about Br 10 million a
year. AMC is still carrying an accumulated deficit of some Br 15 million due to
this. While the book-closings may be questioned on some counts, it now seems AMC
does not require yearly subsidies, in contrast to many other marketing parastatals
in other countries. The selling price of flour has been subsidized at times by
having Government pick up a portion of AMC's selling price of flour to mills. Of
course, AMC's high margins contain an implicit subsidy, paid by the farmers who have
to accept low prices.   The margins in the price build-ups have not increased in
recent years.
AMC Incremental and Accumulated Surplus
(Br millions)
Accumulated                    Incremental
SuEplus (Deficit)              Surplus Deficit
1974/75                       (7.0)                           N.A.
1975/76                       (3.8)                           3.7
Dec. 1977                     (1.1)                           2.7
Dec. 1978                    (10.8)                          (9.6)
1979/80                       (8.5)                           2.3
1980X81                      (18.2)                          (9.8)
1981/82                      (17.6)                           0.6
1982/83                      (17.2)                           0.4
1983/84                      (16.7)                           0.5
1984/85                      (15.5)                           1.2
VII. Impact of Policies Followed
7.01        In terms of policy impact the project failed.  Farmgate prices paid by
AMC never provided a sufficient return to fertilizer use, and were significantly
lower than free market prices. This, in combination with the forced delivery



- 31 -
quotas, meant that farmers were actually taxed by Government rather than encouraged
to increase production. These factors must have had a negative effect on growth in
agricultural output. AMC has not related prices to geographical location nor to
seasonal costs of storage. The removal of grading has led to a deterioration in the
quality of grain bought by AMC. The operating margins of AMC have been much higher
than targeted at appraisal, in part because of poor performance, large margins given
to AMC's suppliers, and because of the uniform price and the absence of seasonal
increases. Movement controls severely restricted private trade. As a result,
farmers received less, and consumers paid more for lower quality grain.
7.02        A key project objective as far as the Bank was concerned was to increase
the production of grain, oilseeds and pulses. Farmgate prices would be determined
in order to safeguerd producer incentives. This was defined as providing an
incremental cost-benefit ratio of 1.5 to 1 from fertilizer use (except for maize
where a 2.5tl ratio would be applied to encourage the relatively advantageous
production of this crop). The lower level of the price range adjusted for transport
and handling costs and profits to arrive at the Addis Ababa wholesale price,
represented the minimum AMC would pay for grain. The upper level was determined by
the import parity price, with reductions to incorporate any subsidy the government
could afford to pay. At appraisal an initial range of Br 5 was suggested as the
span within which AMC would be free to set prices, implying a subsidy at that time
of Br 14Iqt for the necessary wheat imports. However, AMC was to acquire the grain
volumes needed for its clients and the stablization and buffer stock scheme in
competition with the private traders. For this reason the AMC floor price would
have to be flexible, and adjusted upwards in poor harvests, when traders made better
offers. The ability of AMC to increase production on peasant farms has two aspects
to it: (i) the guarantee of adequate financial incentives; and (ii) the reduction of
uncertainty regarding the expected harvest price. It turned out that Government may
have been more concerned with equity concerns in terms of uniform consumer prices, a
valid concern as long as it would not result in undermining producer incentives.
Unfortunately, during the project period it did.
7.03        The joint GOE/World Bank mission to 'Review Farmers' Incentives and
Agricultural Marketing and Distribution Efficiency' in March 1983 concluded that
returns to fertilizer use at AMC prices were no longer satisfactory. This conclusion
was still valid in 1987. The marked increase in national fertilizer prices in
1979180 has never been compensated for by higher AMC crop prices. Recent IDA
preparation work for PADEP has confirmed the inadequacy of AMC prices in this
respect. Fertilizer consumption peaked in 1978/79 at some 50,000 MT and has only
recently returned to these levels in 1986/87 (para 8.02). Recent increases in
consumption are due in large measure to the very high grain prices prevailing in the
open market, especially in Shewa. As to the second half of the objective, to
maintain production incentives, AMC has guaranteed a floor price, but at levels
which were too low to be of much use. Private merchants normally pay better prices
than AMC. There are exceptions on record for very remote areas where the uniform
price becomes higher than the open market price (with the Government providing very
high transport subsidy). The difference between the AMC price and the free market
price is relatively smaller in areas where movement control of grains has been
strictly enforced. There are also cases where the AMC price exceeded the open
market price for low value crops like maize and barley. This happened in 1983/84
and in 1986/87 in the Rift Valley area and caused or is likely to cause AMC
considerable problems in selling the large stocks acquired. In 1983/84 AMC stopped
purchases in these areas. In these years AMC could either have reduced its local



- 32 -
purchasing prices to levels comparable to private trader prices and stopped buying
after getting the necessary quantities, or deliberately stored for future
stabilization or security purposes. However, Government policy was too rigid to
accomodate these adjustments.
7.04        The extent to which retail prices in urban areas exceeded the farmgate
prices paid by SC's, who then sell to AMC in different years reflects the farmers
opportunity cost, and is illustrated in the table below (para 7.05) for White Teff.
The table is subject to differing interpretations. Retail prices :efer to what
urban consumers have to pay and in general assumes that the produce has passed
through a wholesaler and a retailer. In minor towns it is possible for the farmers
themselves to sell at the prevailing retail prices. Pre-revolution estimates
suggest that wholesale margins are in the neighborhood of Br 0.03/km and quintal,
(Br l/qu at a distance of 35 km) and that retail margins are in the range of Br 2-
4Iqt. These indicate that retail prices of up to Br 5 over the farmgate are
reasonable. The differences shown below exceed this considerably.
7.05        The differences between AMC prices and urban retail prices have been
large. They increase in a drought year, and for deficit areas. They have been
significantly higher than normal intermediation costs. Even after deducting a
retail margin and some transport costs, it seems clear that the farmgate free market
prices would have been significantly higher than what AMC has paid farmers. For
farmers having the opportunity to market their produce in one of the major towns,
proceeds may well have been the retail price less his tax payment to Government,
well above the returns provided by AMC. The June or September prices would further
accentuate the picture.
7.06    A reasonable price development scenario from the point of view of the farmer
would be one where that the farmgate price increased over the season at a rate
comensurate with the build-up of costs of storage, interest and physical losses.
AMC prices have no such allowance. Free market prices vary between different towns
depending on degrees of movement control, and the level of forced deliveries. For
the towns listed above the free market price increases from March to September as
shown in the following table (Addis Ababa 1980-86, 6 other towns 1976-1985).



- 33 -
Difference between the Retail Price in Selected Urban Towns and the
SCIAMC Purchase Price for White Teff as per March each Year
(Br/qt)
1982         1983           1985
(Normal Year)  (Good Year)   (Drought Year)  Average
Surplus Areas
Assella                   11          NA                102          56
Bar Dahr                   5           18               NA           11
Shashemane                33          27               118           59
Nazareth                  29          45                104          59
Average                   15           18                65          33
Self-Sufficient Areas
Jimma                     36          22                NA           29
Nekemt                    32          NA                NA           32
Average                   34          11                NA           22
Deficit Areas
Asmara                   120          155              330          202
Dessie                    33          36               200           90
Dire Dawa                108          NA                NA          108
Addis Ababa               68          55                148          90
Average Retail Price:    82           61                169         104
SC/AMC Farmgate Price    45           45                45           45
Source:  CSO Statistical Bulletins, 18, 29, 32 and 41.
7.07        There are indications of substantial returns to holding grain after
harvest. Price increases are itemized in the Addis Ababa market, where competition
is greatest, and supplies come from around the country. The table clearly shows
that in areas where the commodity is in surplus, the price increases are minimized.



- 34 -
Average Free Market Price Increase
per Quintal from March to September
(Br/qt)
Town        Crop Surplus    White Teff      White Wheat       Sorghum
Asella        Wheat             36               3             NA
Asmara         -                35              12             23
Bar Dahr      Te!f              11               5             NA
Dessie        Sorghum           22              26             19
Dire Dawa     Sorghum           12              39              0
Gondar        Teff               7              22             28
JIima         Teff              12              15             NA
Nazareth      Sorghum           37              12              6
Nekemt        Wheat             13               7              7
Shashemane    Sorghum           23              22             NA
Addis Ababa     -                8              10             11
7.08        In Addis Ababa the wholesale-retail price margin seems to correspond
more to costs than the seasonal data just produced. This indicates that once grain
has been brought to the capital, competition will see to it that the margin is kept
reasonable. In the next table, retail margins in Addis Ababa based on monthly data
from 1980-86 for selected crops are compared with those for 1962 - 1964.  It can be
seen that: (i) margins have increased in abszolute terms; (it) margins have decreased
substantially in relation to prices. As prices in the 1980s have been much higher,
it can be assumed that competitive forces have contributed to maintaining retail
margins at reasonable levels.
Averaxe Retail Martins in Addis Ababa 1980186. BrIqt
Retail        Retail      Retail Margin   Retail Margin as
Margin        Margin      as 2 Wholesale  2 of Wholesale
1962-74       1980-86     Price 1962-74   Price 1980-86
White Wheat          13.4         8.2            7.5              8.4
Barley                2.7         6.4           14.1              7.2
Maize                 2.4         5.6              -              8.5
Sorghum               3.8         7.6              -              8.0



- 35 -
7.09        Part of the concept of stable price de7elopment is also  a hith
correlation of prices at different locations with cost differences corresPondinft to
the transport costs between the locations. As can be seen from the next table the
Implied transport rates per quintal and kilometer are very similar between the
selected towns. The analysis shows: (i) that price variations in the different
towns are closely linked throughout the year; (ii) that the implied transportation
costs are high compared to standard truck/trailer costs; and (1ii) the high costs of
intermediation are more or less the same, across various cities - implying that the
effect of Goverment movement controls is felt to the same degree in all regions.
Supply to the capital would hence be better and prices lower if movement controls
were not there. The derived transport rates should be compared to the regulated
tariffs of cents 2.05 and 1.25 per quintal and kilometer which apply to truck and
truck and trailer respectively on the all weather roads.
7.10        At appraisal exceptionally good harvests were assumed to occur once in
four years. In that year AMC would purchase limited buffer stocks to be used in
subsequent years. Government would, on the release of the grain, pay the difference
between the selling price and the buffer stock cost price. This difference was
estimated to be less than the cost of subsidizing imports. AMC has never set aside
special buffer stocks, partly as a consequence of its heavy commitments to supply
their clients, and partly because security stocks have become the responsibility of
the RRC. Nor has AMC systematically attempted to stabilize prices between the years
due to insufficient stocks in relation to client demands, and lacking management,
market intelligence and crop forecasting abilities to take on such a task.
Implied Quintal-Kilometer Costs and Correlation Coefficients
Quintal-Kilometer      Correlation
Costs           Coefficient
Addis Ababa - Asella               20.1                0.95
Addis Ababa - Asmara                  -                0.75
Addis Ababa - Bar Dahr              6.9                0.71
Addis Ababa - Dessie               15.4                0.90
Addis Ababa - Dire Dawa               -                0.89
Addis Ababa - Gondar                5.9                0.76
Addis Ababa - Jimma                 6.8                0.88
Addis Ababa - Nazareth             36.4                0.70
Addis Ababa - Nekemt                8.4                0.92
Addis Ababa - Shashemane            7.2                0.83
7.11        It was previously shown how AMC in fact has rather limited supplies of
grain available for price stabilization. Sales are fairly equally distributed
between the months, and the stabilization effect is small. The table below shows
the proportion of grain distributed by AMC by month, averaged over the years
1977178-1985186. Grain sales per month are about the same, with the highest month
accounting for 10.5 percent of the annual sales, and the lowest 6.3 percent. Addis
Ababa retail prices are higher (on the average) the second half of the calendar
year. However, the difference is small and seems to correspond to the added costs
for seasonal storage. The months when AMC should release grains on the market may
vary from year to year but a first critical period is the rainy season (June -



- 36 -
August) when supplies are not forthcoming from the countryside at the normal rate.
The second and more critical case is when scarcity is felt towards the end of the
year immediately before the new harvest.
7.12        Operations in 1986 offer an example of how AMC released grains via the
BCSC. This is a year characterized by an unusual price sequence, with high prices
in January followed by large declines through the year. Given such a pattern, AMC
should have been concerned about the high initial prices but not worried about
falling prices. AMC/BCSC distribution shows little connection with the price
pattern.
Proportion of Annual AMC Sales in a Given Month
July                8.33
August                7.83
September                8.29
October                6.53
November                6.29
December                6.34
January                8.89
February                8.78
March                9.87
April               10.53
May               10.49
June                7.84
Total               100.0
Comparison of BCSC (Kebele) Grain Distribution
and Addis Ababa Grain Prices
BCSC Distribution           AA Cereal Price Index
January - 100                  January - 100
1985186                       1985186
July                  87.4                            80.4
August               117.8                            77.0
September             56.5                            76.9
October               59.2                            66.3
November              24.8                            71.6
December              97.3                            66.8
January              100.0                            100.0
February              55.8                            98.5
March                 52.7                            28.2
April                 80.6                            94.8
May                  102.3                            90.6
June                  68.2                            84.0
7.13       A basic assumption at appraisal was that in order to offer incentive
producer prices, secure its supplies in competition with private trade, and still
break even, AMC would have to operate on smaller margins than its competitors.



- 37 -
Conditions have changed dramatically since the appraisal report, to some extent
because of inflation but mainly because of the impact of Government's grain
marketing and pricing policy. According to the appraisal report AMC would have an
operating margin of Br 6.50/qt. This would be the difference between the producer
price in the countryside and wholesale price in Addis Ababa. Crucial assumptions in
this context are the hypothetical transport requirements of 100 km from EPID
marketing centers to the AMC branch office, and the further 100 km to Addis Ababa.
In actual fact, however, AMC weights are much higher. This is due to the effect of
the uniform price policy, the guarantee that grain would be collected at the Service
Cooperative, and the cumbersome handling procedures, which exist. The 1985186
average AMC margin for selected crops according to the price build-ups (the
pricelmargin calculation AMC uses to seek approval of selling prices from the Office
of the National Committee for Central Planning) is significantly higher than the
hypothetical margin at appraisal. AMC margins with the turnover tax excluded, and
the margin of the service cooperatives or merchant included, are as follows:
White Teff   White Wheat      White Barley   Maize      Sor2hum
Margin Brlqt       22.72         21.81            20.16        19.36      19.52
The differences between the appraisal estimates and 1 ter price build-ups can be
seen below.
Comparison of AMC Margins
(Br/quintal)
Item                            Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
Transport cost                   2.00  (200 km x 0.01)              7.26 -   8.45
Overhead                         0.83                               2.01 -   3.12
Credit costs                     0.25                               1.05 -   2.04
AMC profit                       -                                  0.90 -   1.65
EPID/Coop. Margin                2.50                               4.00 -   5.00
Other costs                      0.92                               4.14 -   2.45
TOTAL                   6.50
7.14        AMC transports grain an average of 680 km with trailer, and 400 km
without trailer on all weather roads. Behind the figures is the expensive
collection at service cooperatives, but also the generally longer transport
distances resulting from the uniform price system. Credit costs of AMC have
increased because of higher grain prices, but more important because of the
persisting difficulties in making AMC customers pay for deliveries on time. The
relative crop prices are distorted by AMC's practice of averaging actual transport
costs over all quintals bought. There is hence a marked difference in actual
transport distances for maize, mainly produced in the Rift Valley area around
Shashemane, and teff where Goijam and Gondar are the main areas of population. This
in turn has contributed to the extremely large gap between free market prices and
the sales prices for teff In Addis Ababa.



- 38 -
7.15        In the preparation of the Project, reduction of storage losses was  held
out as the one clear competitive advantage of the public marketing organization.
Stores constructed under the Credit would be to a standard far exceeding what is
available to private merchants. Losses in such stores, given proper stock handling
and management, ought to be lower than in traditional merchant stores. Early
deliveries to AMC ought to result in reduced storage losses on farms. No evidence
to support these statements have been found however. AMC's present heavy reliance
on dunnage (grain stored under canvas) in the first month of purchase operations
subtracts from the potential gains. During project preparation estimates were
advanced that storage losses would come down from 2% per month to 0.52 per month and
finally 0.1% per month. The actual magnitude of these losses is unknown. Though
aware of the need for accurate estimates of the figures involved, AMC has so far
failed to work out reliable estimates. 2/ Normal inventories and stock records
have proved inadequate for assessing the amount of grain lost as a fraction of time,
store type and climatic conditions. A small experiment where State Farm grain was
stored in four different types of stores for six months gave the following results:
AMC Storage Losses by Type of Store
Hired Substandard Store                          0.252
Duxnnage (canvas covering)                       0.31%
Corrugated Iron Sheet Store                      0.222
Standard Concrete Store                          0.19%
A first report from an ongoing three year experiment in standard concrete stores
indicates that dry matter losses in Nazareth and Shashemane during a seven month
period were:
Crop                2 Loss, Dry Matter
Wheat                          3.7
Sorghum                        0.3 (excess)
Niger seed                     3.8
Linseed                        0.1
Rape seed                      2.0
Maize                         15.5
Maize (Shashemane)             1.1
These figures can be considered as indicative at best.
7.16         Consumer interests have been catered for in that a concerted effort has
been made to assure a steady supply of food to the urban areas and in particular
Addis Ababa. The success and cost of this effort have been discussed previously.
There is no doubt that the quality of AMC grain is not up to the standards of the
free market. A detailed description of the quality of peasant and State Farm grains
delivered to AMC is given in the Efficiency Study on AMC. The general levels of
impurities are high in comparison with estimates of traditional impurity levels.
State Farm grain is poor, with impurity levels at times approaching 50%, only
partially explained by the high content of shrivelled or physically damaged grain.
2/ For financial calculations a standards allowance of 52 is used for losses.



- 39 -
Peasant grain often exceeds the rejection criterion of 122 impurities. Private
traders on the other hand still practice bonus payments for good quality grains.
7.17        The impact on marketing practices of the project has been negative.
Margins have increased in both public and private sectors. It Is true that on sales
to AMC, cheating practiced by merchants has been minimized. However, the effects on
the private side have not materialized. The strong competition to be provided by
AMC in an open market, where small AMC margins would put pressure on private
traders, has not occurred. An inverse effect has developed, however, where private
merchants take advantage of AMC's inefficiency, and charge similar, large margins.
Grading of grains has been negatively affected by the presence of AMC, and stock
handling, though probably reasonably carried out by AMC, has not been upgraded in
the private sector. This was to have been promoted through the supervision and
licensing of private traders, who among other things were to ensure that stores with
reasonable hygienic conditions were used. There are no signs that any substantial
upgrading of local market infrastructure took place under the Project. Finally, in
order to improve marketing efficiency, the Bank during preparations and at
negotiations pressed for opening credit facilities for private traders. The Credit
Agreement states that availability of adequate credit to facilitate produce trade
shall be ensured, in accordance with the credit policies of the country. There is
no evidence that merchants benefited from Government credit facilities.
VIII.   Economic Analysis
8.01        The SAR estimated the economic rate of return at 252, including buffer
stocking, and at 182 excluding buffer stocking. A reassessment of the calculations
suggest a negative or at best zero rate of return. The benefits considered at
appraisal are briefly commented on in turn.
Increased Production
8.02        Until the grain pricing and marketing reforms of December 1987, AMC
prices did not give a satisfactory return to fertilizer use, and were low in
relation to free market prices. This tendency was accentuated over the sales
season. Movement controls further prevented farmers from obtaining higher prices in
local markets. A drought and famine affected the country in years seven and eight
of the project. Production of cereals, pulses and oilseeds varied tremendously
during the project period, due to the varistions in the weather. Fertilizer
consumption, an indicator of adoption of yield increasing technology, fell off
during the project period from a peak in year one (1978/79). The project did not
have a positive impact on production incentives and grain production.
Reduced Stora-te Losses
8.03        The elimination of substandard storage through the proposed licensing
system and construction of improved warehouses was to reduce losses by 52. Further
effects were expected from improvements in marketing infrastructure. Storage
construction was less than planned. AMC stock handling has not been upgraded as
anticipated, and open air storage is still common. No conclusive evidence has yet
been presented on loss reduction due to use of concrete warehouses. Benefits from
improved concrete stores are counteracted by increased losses from dunnage, and on
balance are believed to be negligible.



- 40 -
Agricultural Production and
Peasant Sector Fertilizer Use
Production                       Fertilizer
('000 MT) a/                     ('000 MT) b/
1979/80                   7,496                               43.3
1980/81                   6,556                               31.1
1981/82                   6,291                               31.7
1982/83                   7,798                               45.1
1983/84                   6,337                               46.9
1984/85                   4,400                               46.6
1985/86                   6,500 c/                           64.5
a/ Agriculture Sector Review, Report 6512-ET
b/ AISCO Data on Sales
c/  Estimate from Three Year Plan and PIP
Income Redistribution
8.04        Competition from AMC was to reduce margins in the private sector.  Both
farmers and consumers were to benefit from the smaller margins of AMC. Margins have
widened in the private as well as public grain marketing sector. Due to price
controls and restrictions in movement, farmers get less for their produce (purchased
by AMC) and consumers pay more (for open market grain). Benefits on this count are
believed to be negative.
Incremental Wholesale Marketing
8.05        Benefits from AMC's domestic buying were to accrue from the savings in
operating costs per unit weight. Such savings have not come about. Additional
costs due to AMC's increased margins and less efficient operations make this a
negative entry.
Buffer Stocking
8.06        AMC has not operated any buffer stock scheme of the nature envisaged at
appraisal. No benefits can be counted under this heading.
Consumer Protection
8.07        When retail prices seemed excessive, AMC was to engage in retail
activities and through its trimmed margins and use of stocks and imports would be
able to offer lower prices. AMC has been able to sell at lower than market prices,
but only because its farmgate purchase price has been held down. Those with access
to the limited and rationed AMC stocks obtained a measure of protection. The
rationing is not targeted, however, and anyone can buy grain at a Kebelle store.
Due to AMC stock limitations consumers have to purchase some' grain on the open
market, where prices are considerably higher than they would have been in the



- 41 -
absence of controls. The net result on consumer welfare is hard to judge. On
balance there probably has been a measure of protection in large urban centers such
as Addis. The general quality of the grain distributed to consumers has
deteriorated as a consequence of the elimination of quality grading.
Incremental Input Distribution
8.08        The benefits of cheap and timely input distribution to farmers were
ascribed to the project. Initially under AMC, the responsibility for this was
transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture (AISCO) in 1984.  It should be noted,
however, that the responsibility for the 1978179 and 1979/80 Importation of 100,000
tons of fertilizer per year (twice the annual consumption levels), at a time when
international fertilizer prices were at their historical peak, must be ascribed to
AMC. Fertilizer prices, and consumption, are still recovering from this incident.
The returns to AMC's intervention in this field were negative on balance.
IX. Bank Performance
9.01        During the preparation and execution of the Grain Storage and Marketing
ProJect, the Bank was confronted with profound economic, social and political
changes. Between project conception and the date of credit effectiveness, Ethiopia
totally changed political direction. The Bank, expecting to finance a policy
project aiming primarily at stimulating peasant production, found itself supporting
an infrastructure project with the primary objective of supplying urban areas and
Government organizations within the framework of long-term socialization of the
grain trade.
9.02        Should the Credit ever have been signed?  The divergence between Bank
and Government objectives has been noted above. These differences were clear to
Bank decisionmakers, when the first set of negotiations broke down in June 1976.
However, the current Ethiopian objective of fully socializing grain marketing had
not been spelt out clearly to the donor community, or the country at that time.
Although the Government's position appeared to heavily favor the consumer side in
the grain market, it was felt that Bank involvement on the production side, and in
the establishment of an efficient Government regulatory agency would improve the
situation, for both producers and consumers, by contributing to growth in
production, and reducing marketing costs. These outcomes were dependent on vigilant
Bank supervision of the market, and the effects of Government intervention. The
lack of sufficient Bank attention to the developments in the grain market during
three crucial years (1980 to 1982) meant that the chance to advise Government on the
possible negative consequences of policy changes was considerably weakened. The
dialogue on the these topics has been taken up again with renewed vigour in the
context of the preparation of new peasant sector production projects as of 1983 and
has led to an agreement on an improved grain pricing and marketing policy framework
and on a PADEP I project.
9.03        Why was the Project not more closely linked to MPP II, under preparation
at the time? Was the Project passed as a gesture of goodwill, while other projects
in Ethiopia, such as MPP II, were shelved awaiting a solution to the compensation
issue? Given that Credit 789-ET had few binding convenants, it would have been
natural to revive at least the pricing and production incentives issue and the free
marketing of grain during MPP II negotiations in April 1980. By 1980 the contours



- 42 -
of the future marketing policies were already clear. Only In 1983 was the
connection between AMC and MPP II rediscovered and the argument taken up in the
context of the preparation of the PADEP project.
9.04        It seems that the tumultuous status of the grain market between 1975 and
1978 required public intervention, but why was the response to this situation so
heavy? Once AMC had established its store network, a return to the old order became
virtually Impossible. The alternative# of expanding capacity in the private sector
would have looked quite different in terms of number, size and location of stores.
AMC stores have little prospect of being taken over by the private sector.
Throughout the project execution period using the various requests for reallocation,
the Ethiopian government pushed for more funds for civil works, vehicles and
equipment, at the expense of technical assistance, operating expenditures and loan
funds under EGA and CIU. This did not result in the desired changes in grain
marketing and pricing policy, as the very foundation for efficient policy
implementation was being eroded.
9.05        Should the Bank have insisted on more binding covenants?  On the pricing
issue the Ethiopians made a strong point at negotiations that the simple linking of
prices to returns to fertilizer usage was too specific, difficult to put into
practice, given yield differentials, and too narrow an interpretation of farmer
incentives. As a result, the eventual condition agreed on was unenforceable. Given
the firm dedication of Government to radically transform the marketing system it is
improbable that a more binding covenant on the pricing issue would have been
negotiated. If agreed on, its enforcement would have stopped the project shortly
after effectiveness. The Bank's role, having agreed to become a participant in
these changes, should have been one of constant vigilance on the side of production
incentives and marketing issues. A similar verdict seems valid with respect to the
role of private trade. Covenants on technical assistance were also weak.
Insistence on several key posts to be manned by expatriate staff would probably have
been an acceptable covenant, in particular if more emphasis had been given to
describing the tasks ahead. The management and market intelligence functions of the
Project assumed added importance under the new role of AMC, and the need for a
strengthening of these functions is evident even today.
9.06        Why did the Bank let the policy implementation side of the Project slip
for several years? Bank's concern was totally dominated by storage construction
pace and quality between 1980 and 1982. Bank staff working on the Project during
these years had an engineering, procurement or financial analyst background.
Dismantling of EGA met with only minor objections, despite the fact that Article V,
Section 5.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement, which provided for suspension of
disbursements, could have been invoked to question the change.
X.   Special Issues
How to Approach Policy Chanae
10.01       The questions above do not have simple answers.  When a country embarks
on a foundation of new economic or social philosophy, the Bank's function is to make
sure that due consideration is paid to economic coefficiency. This approach has
been used repeatedly in contacts with Ethiopian officials. It is, however, less
clear that the general empirical evidence and economic theories that illustrate



- 43 -
these costs have been effectively conveyed to Governrent decisionmakers.  AMC staff
have returned from scholarships abroad with a new perspective of what marketing
efficiency stands for. The same understanding could have been achieved earlier had
the Bank succeeded in more widely distributing relevant case studies from other
countries, in explaining methodologies and economic theories of market regulation
and Intervention, and In arranging seminars and study trips on these themes. All
parties would have gained if the Bank had assumed a more pedagogical role. Under
PADEP preparation and implementation, Bank staff have adopted more of a
collaborative approach aimed at strengthening the government's inhouse capacity to
analyse and monitor producer price incentives.
10.02       The Bsank's educational role could extend beyond the central issue of
efficiency, and include aspects such as practical management of market intelligence
systems, decentralization, information systems, and crop forecasting methods.
Explanations as to how such issues have been tackled in other countries (both with
market economics and centralized ones) might have prevented the Project from falling
into some of the traps which exist in these fields. The Bsank may be correct in
recommending use of international specialists to solve management problems in
projects, but it is the Bank itself, along with other selected international
organizations, who have access to the international experience with approaches to
this type of problem, and can point to examples of how they have been solved.
More Imaginative learning and technical assistance processes exist, and should be
used.
10.03       The project did not achieve its main objectives.  Would the outcome have
been different if the Bank had acted differently, or changed its approach? The
following questions may be posed.
-   would a new preparation and subsequent appraisal have improved
Project performance?
-   if the Bank had withdrawn from this project after negotiations
broke down in 1976, would farmers and production incentives have
been better off? The expansion of storage capacity would certainly
not have been as rapid.
-   should not the upper price limit have been more explicitly linked
to the import parity price and the subsidy component de-emphasized.
-   in a case like this, could the Bank gain from assessing the
situation from the perspective of a worse case scenario rather than
assume that ideal conditions will prevail? The rapid appraisals of
Ethiopia's implementation capacity in 1977/78 may have judged the
construction capacity correctly but seem to have neglected the
feasibility of Implementing the qualitative policy oriented
aspects.
The Project may have seemed feasible at preparation and appraisal in 1975176.
However, the breakdown in the 1976 negotiations, the weakness of the covenants
eventually obtained, and the rapidly changing circumstances under which
implementation began should have caused a serious review of whether the objectives
posited were realistically attainable, and a tightening of supervision of these
aspects would be needed - and feasible. It was only as crop prices on the open



- 44 -
market came down in 1980 and 1981 however, that the effects of the Government's new
policies became spparent.
On Dsfinition of Production Incentives
10.04       The definition of production incentives as formulated in the SAR has
rightly been much discussed. Steps could have been taken to more closely attach the
conclusions on returns to fertilizer applications to the ongoing MPP crop sampling
surveys. Such a linkage could have defined with greater precision which farmers,
areas, etc., should be considered in the assessment, and how the results should be
interpreted. It also seems essential to incorporate the risk aspect in the
analysis. To farmers in Ethiopia, as in other countries, the expected mean net
return from an innovation is weighed against the variance of the mean yield.
Realization of the risks associated with farming in Ethiopia is one factor behind
the Bank's recent insistence on higher critical levels for returns to fertilizer
application. The attention to risk should preferably also extend to other areas of
relevance for the farmer's incentive structure: means and variances of prices of
consumer goods, availability of consumer goods, taxes, eitraordinary cash
contributions, impositions by local authorities, etc. Another issue of primary
importance for producer incentives is the availability and cost of essential
consumer goods, and the need for cash to fulfill various tax and contribution
obligations. Just as the crop sampling surveys could have monitored the
profitability of fertilizer use, a farmer cash expenditure Index in selected areas
could assist in monitoring the purchase power of the farmers. Both these features
should have been considered in the AMC and the MPP projects. This would have
established a common empirical ground between them.
10.05       The 'cost of production" method of establishing that a price provides a
production incentive, advocated for this project, and included in the condition on
pricing in the Credit Agreement, if consistently applied, will probably achieve the
growth objectives sought after. Its mechanical application, however, may result in
a less than optimum distribution of crops, both with regard to local consumption
markets, and export/import alternatives. The determination of AMC prices would
improve incentives for production of crops with the greatest returns, if more
attention was paid to importlexport parity, the elimination of the subsidy eleme4t
introduced under the project, the inclusion of transportation costs.   Even under
the swings of international market prices, relative international price
relationships should result in an optimum distribution of production efforts.



