III  II r",iI~ Ill     Dcument of
ULHR9U,L            me World Bank
]TOM O7NCXAL USE ONLY
Ervmniw No. P-19 70c-ET
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OFTHE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO -THEZ
EXEECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
- TC-
ETHIOPIA
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE AND MA.-ETING PROJECT
4Ay 27T, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Ethiopian Birr
US$00483                 Birr 1o00
US$1000                  Birr 2.07
US$483,000               Birr 1 million
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB              Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Agricultural Inputs Marketing Services
AMC               Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CIU               Crop Iformation Unit
EGA               Ethiopian Grain Agency (fcrmerly The Ethiopian Grain Board)
EGC               Ethiopian Grain Corporation
ECODD             Extension and Cooperative Development Department (formerly EPID)
HOA               Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement
MPP               Hinimum Package Program
PPD               Planning and Programming Department of MOA
GOVERNM,ENT OF ETHIOPIA
Fiscal Year
July 8     July 7



- i -                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA - GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                      Ethiopia
AMOUNT:                        US$24 million equivalent
TERMS:                         Standard
PURPOSE:                       To achieve stable producer and consumer prices,
maintain adequate producer incentives, reduce
marketing margins and assure an adequate food
supply throughout the country.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:           The proposed project would, over four years,
support the establishment of an orderly grain
marketing and input distribution system in
Ethiopia. It would provide the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) with incremental
storage facilities for about 350,000 MT of pro-
duce and farm inputs, 85 vehicles (cars, trucks,
motorcycles), office and storage equipment, a
seven-man management team (28 man-years), staff
training, headquarters building and incremental
permanent trading capital. The project would
also strengthen the Ethiopian Grain Agency through
the provision of 4 vehicles, office equipment,-
19 man-years of technical assistance and operating
costs for the new Internal Marketing and Market
Intelligence Departments, and through the esta-
blishment of a fund to support improvements to
local market places. Finally, the project would
improve crop forecasting by providing a new Crop
Information Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture
with two vehicles and office equipment, 3 man-years
of technical assistance, consulting services and
operating costs during the project period.
ESTIMATED COST:                Total project cost is estimated at US$34.6 million
including taxes amounting to US$2.6 million equi-
valent, with a foreign exchange component of US$12.4
million equivalent or 36% of the total project cost.
A sumary of project costs is given on page ii.
FINANCING:                                                US$ million     %
IDA                            24.0        75
Government                      8.0         25
Subtotal                     32.0       100
Taxes                           2.6
Total                        34.6
Thb document has a restricted dutribution and may be used by rcipients only in the pefornuce
of their oica duties. Its contents may not othewis be discksed without Worid Bank authori2ation.



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS:                                  (US$ Million)
Local     Foreign     Total
Civil Works                                           9.5       2.4        11.9
Incremental Permanent Trading Capital                4.9        3.3         8.2
Vehicles and Equipment                                0.7       1.9         2.6
Operating Costs                                       0.9       0.1         1.0
Market Infrastructure Improvement Fund                0.3       0.2         0.5
Staffing and Technical Assistance                    0.8        2.2         3.0
Base Cost                                         17.0      10.1        27.1
Contingencies
Physical (6%)                                      1.1       1.5         1.6
Price    (22%)                                     4.1       1.8         5.9
Total Cost                                   22.2      12.4        34.6
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                       (US$ Millions)
IDA
Fiscal Year   Annual   Cumulative
1977/78       7.85       7.85
1978/79       5.35      13.20
1979/80       5.47      18.67
1980/81       5.33      24.00
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:    Contracts for vehicles, equipment and civil works
would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding with a 7½% preference for
domestic civil works contractors. Small ware-
house construction contracts not to exceed
US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding, as would
orders of less than US$80,000 equivalent for
certain vehicles and equipment. AMC purchases
of produce would be made from local suppliers
in accordance with current Covernment procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:        A total of 50-man years, including a seven-man
management team (28 man years).
RATE OF RETURN:              18%
APPRAISAL REPORT:            Report No. 969b-ET dated May 17, 1977
Eastern Africa Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$24.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a grain storage and marketing project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY   1/
Introduction
2.         A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in March 1975, and
its report (790a-ET, dated December 1, 1975) has been circulated. This
report was the subject of discussion with the Provisional Military
Administrative Council (PMAC) in July 1975. These discussions provided
an opportunity to emphasize the Bank's interest in supporting the Govern-
ment in its pursuit of more rapid and equitable development, while making
clear the Bank's view that these objectives could only be realized if
certain critical policy issues were recognized and acted upon. In
April 1976, the Government announced its "National Democratic Revolution
Program," following which detailed reviews of sectoral programs were
begun. A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia during February/March
1977, and an economic updating report is presently under preparation.
The preliminary findings of this mission are reflected in the following
paragraphs.
1/ Parts I and II have been reproduced from the President's Report for the
recently approved Revised Amibara Irrigation and Road Sector Projects
except for para 9 which has been updated.



- 2-
Country Oblectives and Strategy
3.        Since 1974 Ethiopia has been ruled by a military government (the
Provisional Military Government of Socialist Ethiopia) which espouses social-
ism. In the economic sphere, this involves raising the living standard of
all Ethiopians, especially the poor, through state control of the major
industries and transport organizations,the financial system and foreign
trade, and through the mobilization of the mass of the people to increase
production. The National Democratic Revolution Program gives priority
to the agricultural sector while industry will be developed to meet the
"needs of the masses." Agricultural production by peasant farmers and
by state farms is to be encouraged; the financial institutions are to be
streamlined; and incentives are to be maintained in the private sector.
Also among its aims are: free education, improved health services and
the provision of wider employment opportunities. The development of
urban centers away from Addis Ababa and Asmara and, within the urban
sector, the development of productive activities as well as the provision
of services are likely to receive emphasis.
4.        In September 1976, a Government statement revealed further details
of Government strategy. Short- and long-term plans are, the statement
said, being drawn up. The short-term plan will concentrate on immediate
economic and social problems of unemployment, shortage of consumer goods
and inflation. The long-term plan will attempt to increase agricultural
production both through the use of modern inputs and through efforts
to reorganize the farming system; to reorganize trade by putting essential
goods under the control of state trading corporations and cooperative
shops; and to promote the construction industry and reorient the banking
system so as to eliminate urban housing shortages.
Economic and Social Reforms
5.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced
in line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural
land has been made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and
user rights of up to 10 hectares have been allocated to former tenants
and to others personally willing to cultivate the land. In nomadic
areas, traditional grazing rights were protected. Former commercial
farms have either been handed over to peasants for individual or collective
cultivation, or have been retained as state farms.
6.        The second main feature of the land reform was the formation
of peasant associations. By February 1977, over 24,000 associations
with 6.7 million members had been formed; it is estimated that this
membership represents a substantial majority of rural households. These



associations decide on limited security and judicial matters through
elected committees. They are responsible for land redistribution and
management and for the establishment of cooperatives. Representative
associations are also being established at woreda (sub-district) and
awraja (district) levels. To help implement the land reform and the
establishment of peasant associations, the Government in late 1974 sent
all university and higher secondary students into the rural areas for
one year (the "zemetcha" campaign).  The land reform appears to have
received popular support in most areas, especially among former
tenants.
7.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses was restricted to one per family; extra houses were
nationalized. Urban dwellers' associations ("kebeles") have been
established to parallel the peasant associations and with similar powers.
About 1,500 such associations have been established in 600 towns through-
out the country, 290 of which are in Addis Ababa. They are intended to
undertake construction of schools, clinics and roads and to establish
market centers and cooperative shops. Kebele cooperative shops are
being used for distribution of certain essential goods in short supply.
They already have a financial basis since they collect rents for
nationalized houses up to a certain level. Elections of kebele officials
were held in November 1976.
8.        Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some
owned by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975. All banks have been
reorganized and placed under the direct control of the National Bank
of Ethiopia. The financial sector now comprises two state commercial
banks, two specialized credit institutions (the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank and the Housing and Savings Bank), the
Ethiopian Insurance Corporation and small-scale credit cooperatives.
All nationalized manufacturing plants are organized into sector cor-
porations under the Ministry of Industry. State farms have been placed
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement. Joint ventures be-
tween the state and friendly countries will be permitted in both agriculture
and industry.
Compensation
9.        The Government has stated that compensation will be paid to
the former owners (both local and foreign) of nationalized enterprises.
In February 1976, it established a Commission to decide how compensation
should be determined and to process claims.   The Commission has   com-
pleted formulation of internal rules and regulations to goveru negotiations
with claimants, is now setting priorities in consultation with relevant
departments and agencies as to which claims should be reviewed first, and
has recommended some of the more obvious, hardship cases for immediate
action.



-4-
Basic Economic Situation
10.       The reforms have taken place against a background of desperate
poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita
GNP of about US$100 in 1975, is classified by the UN as one of the 25
least developed countries in the world. The population, estimated at
about 28 million in 1975, is predominantly rural (about 90%). Some 7%
of the population is literate; there is one physician for every 70,000
people and only 19% of the children of primary school age are actually
enrolled. In many highland areas, soils have become seriously depleted
as population pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically un-
suitable land. The lack of transport infrastructure is such that only
about one quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on
foot from an all-weather road. During the drought of 1972/73, which is
estimated to have taken 100-150 thousand lives, the lack of transport
hamperad relief operations. The net effect of all these factors is
that there has been little or no improvement in living standards for
the rural population for many years. Indeed, prior to land reform,
living standards in many areas of the country were probably declining.
11.       Ethiopia is not without natural resources.   Gold, platinum,
copper and potash exist, and there has been considerable petroleum
exploration in recent years. However, none of these minerals has been
proved to exist in sufficiently large quantities to be exploited on a
large scale; and in any case the development of agriculture appears
likely to be the only way of spreading the benefits of development
sufficiently widely.
12.       Ethiopia continues to face formidable constraints to her
development. The low level of development itself implies low savings
and investment, the absence of infrastructure and the merely token
presence of organized government in many parts of the country. Much
of Ethiopia's skilled and trained workforce has left the country and
has not been replaced because of the closure of higher educational
institutions. The level of public savings remains low in relation to
the programs of public spending likely to be generated to meet demands
for social services, as well as military spending. There is the pros-
pect of a serious medium- or long-term foreign exchange constraint
since Ethiopia must import most resources apart from food (which it
still requires in the short term), either as raw materials or in
manufactured form.



- 5 -
13.       Ethiopia has always faced external security difficulties and
internal dissension. Since the revolution, the internal security
situation has become increasingly difficult over a wider geographic
area, although the possibility still exists to continue development
activities in most of the country. The conflict with movements desiring
Eritrean independence dates back 15 years, but appears no nearer a
peaceful resolution. External difficulties could arise with Somalia
over the future of Djibouti, which is due to achieve independence this
year.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
14.       In February 1977, Lieutenant-Colonel Mengistu Hailu-Mariam,
formerly first vice-chairman of the ruling military council (the Dergue),
became Chairman of the Council and Read of State, following the execution
of former Chairman Brigadier-General Teferi Bante and six other Dergue
members. The seven were accused of being connected with an underground
Marxist group, the Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary Party. Executions
of suspected opposition supporters and assassinations of government and
trade union officials supporting the government (presumably by opposition
groups) have occurred frequently over the last year.
15.       Despite these   political difficulties, the regional
security problems mentioned earlier, aud the upheavals attributable
to the major economic and social reforms, the economy has per-
formed surprisingly well. Preliminary national accounts data show
that real GDP increased by 0.6% in 1974/75 and 3.0% in 1975/76. When
account is taken of the loss of some 30% of industrial production which
formerly originated from the Eritrea region and of stagnation in private
investment, this result is not unimpressive. The Government has approxi-
mately doubled its own rate of capital spending over the past two years,
a result of improved project implementation in the roads sub-sector
and of heavier emphasis on agriculture. The distribution of assets
and income has improved. Despite some weakening in the underlying
external position, Ethiopia has maintained an extremely high level of
foreign reserves. Major reorganizations of Government and the economy
in general are taking place.
16.       The land reform has caused a large but unquantifiable redis-
tribution of assets and income towards former tenants. Because of
favorable weather conditions, prompt action by government agencies to
maintain input and credit supplies and the positive effect of the land
reform on peasant incentives, grain production was maintained or
increased in the 1975/76 harvest season except on some of the state
farms. Despite this increase in peasant production, the supply of grain
to the main urban centers fell short of requirements and caused a sub-
stantial rise in urban food prices. This appears to have resulted



from an increased level of rural food consumption, higher on-farm
food stocks and dislocation in the marketing system. A second
result of the land reform appears to have been a shift in the pattern
of agricultural production away from export crops,except coffee, towards
grain. Coffee deliveries for export increased during 1976. Thirdly,
there has been an expansion in rural purchasing power resulting in
increased demand for government services of all kinds, principally
education, health and agricultural extension services as well as for
mass consumption items such as textiles, leather goods and salt.
Similar results have followed from the urban land reform except that
high food prices have constrained growth of urban real incomes.
Despite considerable unrest among the urban working class, the Government
has conceded relatively limited wage increases, and has permitted no
increase so far in Government salaries, other than for those at the
minimum.
17.       The organization of trade has been disrupted by the Eritrean
situation,by harassment of merchants suspected of hoarding and profiteering
and by the general uncertainties confronting the private sector. However,
the nationalized manufacturing industries have performed better than
expected, having succeeded in increasing production outside Eritrea in
most sectors.   These industries are reaching the stage where major
increases in capacity are being considered.
18.       Goverment revenue has been increasing but less rapidly than
expenditure. Up to the end of FY76, the main expenditure increases have
been in military, general administration and development (capital) expen-
ditures. However, revenues only increased by 15X in FY75 and by 9% in
FY76, so that net domestic borrowing, mostly from the banking systems
now covers some 22% of total government spending, whereas two years ago
it was negligible. This recourse to deficit financing coupled with the
urban grain deficit referred to earlier is having inflationary consequences.
However, the Government has taken some positive measures on the revenue
side over the last year, notably the enactment of new land use fees,
agricultural income taxes and a substantial increase in the rate of
surtax on coffee exports to take advantage of high world prices. It also
suspended other export surtaxes which were likely to discourage production
and has been tightening its tax administration procedures. A currency
reform,enacted in September 1976, has also helped contain inflationary
pressures. The Government envisages improving its revenue position through
appropriation of the surpluses of nationalized enterprises and, in the
longer run, by greater use of local taxation. The Addis Ababa retail
price index was 28.6% higher in 1976 than in 1975 compared with 7-8% per
annum increases over the previous three years, but this mainly reflects
the grain price increases referred to earlier which may be temporary.



19.       Ethiopia's balance of payments position weakened slightly
during 1975. Although official reserves increased slightly (by US$10
million over the whole year), this was principally due to a substantial
increase in foreign borrowing; the current account balance moved into
substantial deficit (US$46 million) compared with surpluses of US$76
million and US$56 million in 1973 and 1974, respectively. Much of this
deterioration was due to a decline in the volume of coffee exports
caused by the outbreak of coffee berry disease. Preliminary estimates
for 1976 show the current account balance in surplus once again, princi-
pally because of the increase in coffee prices, but also reflecting higher
volume of coffee exports than in the previous year. Most other exports
fell. There was also an increase in public sector net foreign borrowing
and in net inward transfers. Net reserves at the end of December, at
US$326 million, cover about 11 months' imports c.i.f. at the 1976 rate.
External Assistance
20.       Following the land reform, a basis exists upon which the new
Government can build an accelerated development effort, with emphasis
on the rural areas. At the same time, we do not expect coffee prices
in the medium term to continue at their present high level. Moreover,
there are indications that the volume of imports, the growth of which
had slowed down over the last two-years, is now starting to increase.
For these reasons, Ethiopia will need a substantial volume of external
assistance in the future. Ethiopia's poverty, its stated desire of
making greater use of local rather than imported resources and the need
to ensure a high level of net transfer from external assistance indicate
a strong case for local cost financing, provided such financing adds to,
rather than substitutes for,efforts to raise domestic savings, especially
in the public sector.
21.       Unlike many other African countries which were formerly
dependent, Ethiopia has no traditional source of technical and financial
assistance. The Bank Group has been and is currently providing a relatively
high level of assistance. During 1971-74, IBRD accounted for 20.2% and
IDA 17.4% of gross disbursements of public medium- and long-term
loans. IDA's share is expected to increase substantially during
the next few years as disbursements under IDA credits committed during
1974-75 take place. As of end 1975, IBPXD's share of total public
debt outstanding and disbursed was 17.8% and the share of IDA was 18.82.
As for public debt service, IBRD's share was 34.6% in that same
year, while IDA's share was 2.3%. IBRD's share of total outstanding
debt is expected to decline to about 7% by 1980 but, because of the



- 8 -
relatively low levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors,
IDA debt outstanding as a percent of outstanding external public debt
is expected to be about 40% by 1980. The ratio of debt service to
exports was 7.0% in 1976, and is expected to fall to about 5% by 1980
because of the growing proportion of concessional aid in total debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
22.       Since 1950, the Bank Group lending to Ethiopia has totalled
US$396 million, comprised of 22 IDA credits totalling US$287 million
and 12 Bank loans totalling US$109 million.    The IFC has made five
commitments in Ethiopia totalling US$15.7 million. More than one
half of the amount of lending (US$238 million) was committed in the
fiscal years 1972-76. In addition to the substantial increase in the size
of its operations in the last five years, the Bank Group has softened
its terms to Ethiopia; since FY73, our entire lending has been on IDA
terms.
23.       Until the late 1960s, we assisted in the construction of trunk
roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the late 1960s, our
program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education, and in the
past five fiscal years we have made eight credits for agricultural
development totalling US$107.8 million and two credits for education
totalling US$33.0 million. In addition, our last two road credits
(332-ET in 1972 and 552-ET in 1975) have placed emphasis on the con-
struction of agricultural roads. This program reflects the increased
opportunity for agricultural lending brought about by improved sectoral
knowledge, and the heavier emphasis on agriculture and education in
the Government's priorities. This shift has been greatly assisted
by the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa, which has played a major
role in project identification and preparation in the agricultural sector.
24.       Using the rate of disbursements as a measure, the pace of
implementation of Bank Group projects in Ethiopia has improved. Dis-
bursements out of IDA credits totalled US$12.4 million in 1974, US$24.9
million in 1975 and US$39.1 million in 1976. As a result of the recent
political changes some delays in construction works have been experienced
as private contractors have been unwilling to bid owing to uncertainties,
fears concerning possible nationalization and difficulty in obtaining
finance from credit institutions. The operations of some Bank-financed
projects, Lower Adiabo (Cr. 516-ET) and Rangelands Development (Cr.663-ET),
have been adversely affected by security problems. Cost overruns have
l/ Two additional IDA credits totalling $57 million were approved on
May 10, 1977, but have not as yet been signed.



affected two Bank Group financed projects -- the Addis Ababa Water and
Sewerage Project (Loan 818-ET) for which a US$5.5 million African
Development Fund loan has been arranged to cover the sewerage component
of the project, and the Amibara Irrigation Project (Cr. 418-ET) for
which the Government has requested supplemental IDA financing as part
of the proposed redesigned project. The Government has replaced the
former management of some Bank-financed projects by people who might
sometimes be technically less well qualified but have more Government
backing; such management changes have on occasion unsettled project
implementation.
25.        On the other hand, the political changes have involved a
stronger commitment to development. In many cases, project management
is improving and Bank-financed institutions are adapting to the changed
circumstances without losing effectiveness. There has been no general
deterioration in project implementation in Ethiopia. Moreover, there
is now every prospect that clearer guidelines from the Government are
emerging and that the uncertainties which gave rise to problems in
certain of our projects will be reduced. Annex 1I contains a summary
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of April 30, 1977
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In addition to its
lending program the Bank is pursuing a number of activities to support
the Government's development efforts includiag the secondment of an
advisor in project identification and preparation to the Planning
Commission.
26.        There are undoubtedly risks associated with operating in
Ethiopia at present, arisilg out of political uncertainties and security
problems. Furthermore, policies and programs within which the Bank can
operate have not always been formulated in any precise manner. There
have been difficulties in project work, but we consider these to have
been less than might have been expected given the revolutionary changes
of the last three years. New projects will be proposed for IDA financing
only where there is reasonable assurance of effective implementation in
line with our normal criteria. The Government's development strategy
which is both growth- and equity-oriented is one which the Bank strongly
supports.
27.        Because of the fundamental importance of agriculture, we
are, in preparing projects, emphasizing support for implementing the
reforms which have been announced in the agricultural sector.   More
generally, we expect many of our other projects to reflect increased
emphasis on the rural sector; in education, the Government is planning
a program, which we propose to support, to make education more relevant
to development and more equitably available; the highways program is
paying ever increasing attention to rural roads; and we are attempting
to determine how we can most effectively be involved in rural water
supply.



- 10 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN ETHIOPIA
28.       Ethiopia may be divided into six basic ecological regions which
vary considerably with regard to topography, climate, soils, natural
vegetation and agricultural potential. The central part of the country
is mostly high plateau, 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level and dissected
by gorges and broad valleys; this plateau is surrounded by extensive low-
lands, most of which are inhabited only by nomadic pastoralists. While
no detailed land use data are available,it is estimated that about 50%
of the land is permanent pasture, 10% is cultivated, 202 is barren desert
or swamps, 10% rivers and lakes and 10% forests. The wide climatic and
ecological diversity allows a large variety of crops to be grown. In much
of the highland area the agricultural potential is good for crops ranging
from coffee, cotton, maize and bananas in the lower elevations, to wheat,
barley, sorghum, teff, oilseeds and pulses in the higher, cooler locations.
29.       Agriculture contributed about 48% of GDP in 1975/76, and provides
a livelihood for 85% to 90% of the population. Average total annual family
output (at farm prices) is about Birr 600 (US$300), and three-quarters of
this represents subsistence consumption.- Cereals, coffee and other crops
accounted for 80% of gross agricultural output while livestock and livestock
products for the remaining 20%. The main agricultural exports are coffee,
oilseeds, pulses and hides and skins. Exports of meat, live animals, pulses
and oilseeds have expanded in recent years up to 1974/75 but fell last year;
the volume of coffee exports, however,which fell after 1972/73 due to wide-
spread outbreaks of coffee berry disease, recovered slightly last year.
30.       Agricultural productivity is, in general, quite low.   Methods of
cultivation used by most traditional farmers have remained unchanged over
many centuries, and about two-thirds of the country's farm population operate
holdings of less than one hectare of crop land. In the past, the Government's
main attack on the problems of improving peasant farming was through a series
of comprehensive package projects in certain specific areas and the Minimum
Package Project (Cr. 416) which attempted a wider national coverage. These
programs focus on grain production and the encouragement of the use of
fertilizer and improved seeds through the coordination of extension, input
supply and credit. They have been extremely successful in terms of increased
output, numbers of participating farmers and credit repayment. The Government
is now in the course of redesigning the minimum package concept, to achieve
still wider coverage under a second phase program and to reflect the Govern-
ment's desire for greater self-reliance and involvement of the peasant
associations.
31.       The most urgent and vital problem confronting Ethiopian agriculture
is the advanced and accelerating erosion and consequently low and decreasing
agricultural potential in large parts of the Northern Highlands which are
estimated to be inhabited by 1.6 million farm families. If the erosion con-
tinues unchecked in this area of marginal-to-moderate rainfall, within a
relatively short period (10-20 years),it will be impossible to reverse the



- 11 -
downward trend, and this area will become a permanent deficit area with an
increasing need for relief. A major effort to solve this problem is being
planned within a frame of future phases of the minimum package program, and
the organization of peasant associations under the land reform proclamation
may have enhanced the chances of undertaking effective rehabilitation work.
32.       During recent years agricultural output in Ethiopia has increased
quite slowly, and the country has moved from a status of a net exporter of
cereals in the post-World War II period of self-sufficiency or to slight
grain deficits due in part to the rapidly increasing demand resulting from
urbanization. Before land reform, Ethiopia in a normal crop year produced
some 4.5 million MT of grains, oilseeds and pulses giving rise to a small
cereal deficit in the order of 25,000 MT and a surplus of over 200,000 MT
of oilseeds and pulses which have constituted an important export. Following
land reform, on-farm per capita consumption has increased and, with other
per capita consumption remaining unchanged, total consumption of grain,
oilseeds and pulses is expected to grow by 3.8% per annum. Under normal
weather conditions, grain import requirements are estimated to amount to
about 100,000 MT per annum in the immediate future, gradually declining
until self-sufficiency is regained in the mid-1980s.
Grain Marketing
33.       Before the revolution about 90% of the marketed grain was handled
by private merchants. Despite market fragmentation, a major influence in
price formation was exerted by the terminal market at Addis Ababa (and to
a lesser extent than at Asmara), where the operations of the larger
wholesale stockists are concentrated. In the absence of reliable crop
forecasts, the subjective production estimates of these wholesalers were
the crucial market force, especially during and immediately after harvest,
since they commanded the facilities (storage and finance) for seasonal
stockholding. The costs of marketing were high due to bad roads, double
transport (because of lack of storage and capltal in rural areas), numerous
title transfers in the marketing chain, high storage losses, lack of
grading with accompanying high transport costs for impurities and ineffi-
cient crop forecasting and thus high risks and margins in seasonal storage.
The producer was generally in a weak bargaining position because of his
need to sell immediately after harvest to meet debt payments, lack of
on-farm storage, lack of relevant price information, uncontrolled weights
and measures, limited competition between buyers, and the considerable
effort required to bring produce to market. Thus, the farmer was frequently
forced to sell even if the price was unduly low. There were considerable
price variations from one year to another which discouraged the farmer
from making large cash outlays for inputs.



- 12 -
34.       The Ethiopian Grain Board (EGB) was established in 1950, with
wide powers to regulate and improve the domestic and export trade in
grains, pulses and oilseeds. Until its reorganization in 1971, the Board's
activities were minimal, but since then it has instituted measures for
export licensing and quality control and set up an overseas market intelli-
gence unit. In 1960, the Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC) was established
as a public corporation with the aim of promoting domestic market price
stability. With a storage capacity of 33,000 MT, EGC has handled a series
of grain import operations. Not until the establishment of state farms
in 1975, however, did it make any significant domestic market purchases.
Previously, EGC's average share of the total wholesale trade was less than
5% and this was insufficient to exert any significant influence on prices.
EGC did not achieve its aims because of the Government's failure to provide
it with both sufficient fixed capital and access to bank credit for trading
capital, plus an absence of any channel for direct purchase from peasant
producers, poor management (as exemplified by bad timing of imports), lack
of control over credit sales, and failure to operate a proper cost accounting
system. However, EGC was able to maintain reasonably good warehousing
standards and avoid undue physical losses on the volumes of grain handled.
Comprehensive projects offer farmers an alternative produce marketing channel
in competition with private trade, and the Minimum Package Program (MPP) has
reached the stage where similar produce marketing facilities are needed to
support the development effort by ensuring incentives to fertilizer use.
35.       Each MPP extension area has a marketing center for input distribu-
tian where sales are made on cash or credit terms and which will eventually
become a primary cooperative society. Input procurement and distribution
to marketing centers/cooperative societies were handled until recently by the
Agricultural Inputs Marketing Service (AIMS), a subsidiary of the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) which finances credit sales. Private
firmas previously handled the input requirements of private commercial farms,
but after land reform, AIMS emerged as the sole importer and distributor.
36.       In the grain marketing field, the Government's specific aims are
to assure stable producer and consumer prices; maintain adequate producer
incentives; reduce marcketing margins through greater efficiency and reduced
risks and profits; and assure an adequate food supply in all parts of the
country.
37.       Taking advantage of the changed conditions following land reform,
the Government in mid-1976 created the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(AMC), superseding the Ethiopian Grain Corporation and the Agricultural
Inputs Marketing Services, as a trading organization with a substantial



- 13 -
share of the total wholesale trade in grain, cilseeds and pulses so that
it is in a position to exercise a major influence on pricing. The Govern-
ment intends to use AMC as its instrument to maintain market prices within
certain ranges to be fixed by Government on the recommendation of EGB and
will compensate AMC for losses incurred in any import, export, or buffer-
stocking operations that it may undertake to maintain these limits. The
lower limit will be set to assure the producer sufficient incentives in
the use of recommended inputs. The upper limit will be determined by the
need to protect consumer interests which will in turn determine the extent
of subsidy requirements. If set at import parity, no subsidy would be
involved. If the upper limit is set below import parity, imports of grain
would need to be subsidized and, in addition, it may be necessary to
subsidize farm inputs to maintain the producer incentives stipulated by
the lower price limit. During 1976 producer prices were at levels high
enough to provide adequate production incentives to farmers. For wheat,
the only foodgrain imported, consumer prices were set at about 80% of the
import-parity price which necessitated a subsidy of about US$50 per metric
ton on imported tonnage.
38.       AMC has successfully established an effective operation in the
trade of grain. During its first year of operation, AMC purchased over
120,000 metric tons (MT) of grain; it has done so while paying grain prices
as high as or higher than those required to maintain producer incentives.
Its institutional organization has proven to be functional, although it
now requires reinforcement to ensure that its managerial capacity and
financial resources will be capable of meeting the expanded role which
Government envisages it to play in the future.
39.       The Government has also enlarged the responsibilities of the
Ethiopian Grain Agency to cover supervision and regulation of domestic
trade in grain, oilseeds and pulses, promotion of market infrastructure
improvements, analysis of the development of the grain market to provide
a better basis for policy decisions, pricing imports, buffer stocking
and the size and location of new storage facilities.
40.       Wholesale trade (urban consumption plus exports) of grain,
oilseeds and pulses is expected to expand from 690,000 MT to 1,100,000
MT in the period 1975/76 to 1980/81. In 1975/76, the private wholesale
trade is estimated to have handled just over 500,000 tons of grain, pulses
and oilseeds. Private trade has been subject to considerable uncertainties
since the revolution. However, some of these uncertainties have been
removed with the recent Government decision to exempt private grain
traders from restrictions applicable to private sector activities which
would have preempted a viable role for grain traders. Nevertheless,
the private trade in grain is expected to handle only slightly more than
600,000 tons in 1980/81. The gap is to be filled by public marketing
which, after land reform, has acquired a share of close to 26% of total
wholesale trade - a share which is expected to grow to 45% by 1980/81.



- 14 -
41.        AMC has three major sources of procurement.  It is responsible
for grain imports, for the marketing of the production of grain, oilseed
and pulses from the state farms (replacing private commercial farms), and
for the establishment and gradual expansion of an alternative outlet for
peasant production. This alternative outlet is being established by
utilizing the MPP marketing centers (para 35), and is intended to introduce
more competition in the local grain trade. It is not expected to infringe
on existing private trade but to handle the incremental production from
the development efforts under the MPP program (para 30). AMC sells grain
to mills (most of which have been nationalized), institutional buyers,
and to private wholesalers and retailers.
42.        Retail trade remains largely in private hands subject to overall
control and support from the Ethiopian Grain Agency. Rowever, where
capacity appears deficient or margins excessive, AMC is empowered to
establish some temporary retail outlets.
43.        During the project period, AMC plans to construct 50,000 MT
of grain storage facilities which, in the years until sustained self- sufficiency
in grain production is attained, could be brought into use for limited buffer
stocking operations, e.g., the surplus arising from an exceptionally
good harvest could be carried over for sale in the next year thus reducing
the need for imports. Eventually, when there is a return to self-sufficiency,
these stores would be used to maintain security reserves that would only
be utilized under Government authority to meet emergency conditions such
as famine and drought. The establishment of security reserves follows
the recommendations of a FAO mission in which the Bank cooperated.
44.        To facilitate integration with the agricultural development
program, and to better utilize its own managerial, storage and transport
resources, AMC is also responsible for the import, domestic procurement
and distribution of farm inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, seed and minor
implements) to state farms and the marketing centers/cooperative societies,
which have been established under the HPP by the Extension and Cooperative
Development Department (ECODD) of the MOA. By 1980/81, it is envisaged
that AMC will distribute about 140,000 MT of inputs or about twice the
present volume.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
45.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Appraisal of the Grain Storage
and Marketing Project," No. 969b-ET, dated May 17, 1977 is being circulated
separately. A supplementary project data sheet is provided as Annex III
to this report.
46.       Following the recommendations in the 1973 Agricultural Sector
Survey (PA-143a), the original project proposal was prepared in 1973/74
by the Ministry of Agriculture with assistance from the Bank's Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa and the United States Agency for International
Development. It was also reviewed by a preappraisal mission which visited
Ethiopia in August 1974. The project was appraised in March 1975, and
revised by a Bank mission which visited Ethiopia in June/July 1975, to
take account of the Government's intention to institute public control
over marketing and pricing, and of the implementation of land reform
measures. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in Addis
Ababa in June 1976, but were adjourned because of a number of outstanding
issues, including proposals for sjecific fcrmulas to be used in setting
prices, and because of the need to await the passage of relevant legislation.
These necessitated revising proposals for negotiations. Negotiations for the
proposed credit were completed in Washington D.C. in February 1977. The
Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Ketede Temesgen, Head, Credit and
Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
General Description
47.       The project would, over four years (1977/78-1980/81), support
the establishment of an orderly grain marketing and input distribution
system in Ethiopia, through provision of: (a) the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation's incremental storage facilities for produce, inputs and
buffer stocks, headquarters building, vehicles and equipment, managerial
assistance and incremental permanent trading capital; (b) the Ethiopian
Grain Agency's vehicles and equipment, operating costs for the new
Internal Marketing and Market Intelligence Department for four years,
plus a fund to support improvements to local market places; and (c) the
new Crop Information Unit's (part of the Ministry of Agriculture) vehicles
and equipment, operating costs for four years, and consulting services
to establish the usefulness of remote sensing in crop forecasting.
Detailed Description
(a) Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
48.       The project would provide for the construction of storage
capacity for some 350,000 MT to enable AMC to handle the expected increase
in its trading volume over the project period. Of this incremental storage,
about 250,000 MT would be for produce, and 50,000 MT each for input storage and



-- 16 -
security reserves. In the case of produce storage, the requirements
have been calculated on the basis of 75% of volume bought, to allow for
the concentration of AMC purchases into a four-month period and the need
for separation of varieties and grades.
49.       The volume of inputs to be handled would increase from 60,000 MT
in 1976/77, to 140,000 MT in 1980/81. Some of the requirements would be
delivered directly to state farms and ECODD marketing centers, reducing
the AMC peak inventory to 50% or approximately 70,000 MT in 1980/81. The
storage requirempnts have been reduced by the transfer from AIMS to AMC
of an existing 19,000 MT store. The balance of 51,000 MT would be covered
by the construction of new storage for input distribution since the peak
utilization periods for both grain and inputs coincide. The project would
also finance a headquarters building for AMC in Addis Ababa. To facilitate
communications, ECODD would be housed in the same building and would share
the costs of construction.
50.       The Government has prepared a four-year warehouse construction
program with annual targets which is satisfactory to the Association. In
order to provide flexibility to AMC, construction volume in any one year
could vary up to 25% from the construction program. In the event that
the aggregate volume of construction in any one year varied by more than 25%
or any other substantial deviation (such as location, etc.) from said program
during any year, then the following year's program would require the mutual agree-
ment of IDA and the Government (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
51.       The project would finance four weighbridges, ten mechanical
cleaners, 16 conveyor belts, 59 platform scales, 51 sack carries and other
miscellaneous equipment in connection with the warehouses, and provide eleven
4-wheel drive vehicles, 21 standard vehicles, 13 motocycles and office
equipment for the AMC headquarters and branch offices. About 40 trucks have been
purchased by AMC since its establishment, and the project would provide an
additional 40 trucks. This would allow AMC to handle about 40% of its
peak transport requirements; the balance would be met by the private sector
or the National Transport Corporation. A mobile workshop would be provided
to supplement existing facilities.
52.       Inventories of inputs and produce would vary during the year.   The
value of peak inventories would reach Birr 135 million in 1980/81. The
Ethiopian banking system would only be able to provide about 75% of these
trading capital requirements so that the remainder, Birr 30 million should
be provided to AMC in the form of permanent trading capital. About Birr 13
million has been transferred from EGC and AIMS and Birr 17 million would be
provided by the project through a Government contribution of not less than
Birr 4.25 million (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01) and the
remainder from the proceeds of the credit. An assurance has been obtained
that AMC would have sufficient overdraft facilities with local commercial
banks to cover the balance of its incremental trading capital requirements
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04).



- 17 -
53.       The project would finance a team of seven specialists to fill key
management positions. These positions are those of Deputy General Manager,
Deputy Director of the Commercial Department, Senior Accountant or Financial
Controller, Chief Engineer, Chief of the Planning and Programming Section,
Cost Accountant, and Head of Transport Department. Two expatriates and
five Ethiopians have already been appointed. Appointment of successors to
these positions would be made after consultation with the Association
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)). Specialist
assistance in training and systems planning would also be provided.
(b) Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA)
54.        The project would provide for four vehicles and office
equipment for the new Internal Marketing and Marketing Intelligence
Departments to be established in EGA. Funds would be provided for
training of Ethiopian staff and for five internationally recruited
specialists staff to strengthen the management of these departments.
The project would also finance operating costs, i.e., salaries of
Ethiopian staff, travel, office supplies, fuel and utilities.
55.        The project would include provision for a Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund of Birr 1.0 million to be administered by EGA for the
improvement of grain market facilities, particularly in the provinces.
Any loan from the Fund would be matched by at least an equal amount
from the local authority concerned (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.09).
(c) Crop Information Unit (CIU)
56.        The project would provide two vehicles and office equipment
for the new CIU in the Ministry of Agriculture together with funds for
salaries of Ethiopian staff plus other operating costs including training
and payment of part-time crop reporters. In addition to two-high level
Ethiopian staff, the project would also provide for international recruit-
ment of the head of the unit during the first three years and for a study
of the use of satellite images in crop forecasting.
Prolect Costs and Financing
57.        Total cost of the project is   estimated to be the equivalent
of US$34.6 million, including taxes amounting to US$2.6 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$12.4 million equivalent or 36%
of the total project cost. Costs are estimated at November 1976 prices.
Physical contingencies at a rate of 10% have been included for civil
works, trucks, vehicles, equipment and operating costs. Price contingencies
have been included at the following annual rates: civil works, 12% in
1977-79 and 102 thereafter; trucks, vehicles and equipment, 10% in
1976/77, and 8% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter; operating costs and techni-
cal assistance, 10% throughout. Total physical plus price contingencies
amount to about 28% of base costs.



- 18 -
58.       The proposed IDA credit of US$24 million would cover 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of about US$12 million together with US$12 million
of local costs or about 75% of total project costs excluding taxes. Local
cost financing is justified in Ethiopia for reasons cited in para 20. The
balance of US$8.0 million of the net of tax amount would be contributed
by the Government. The IDA and Government contributions would be channeled
to AMC as permanent capital. AMC's authorized capital would not be less
than Birr 100 million, and over the project period its issued capital
would be expected to increase from Birr 25 million in 1976/77 to Birr 85
million in 1980/81. Funds for EGA and the Ministry of Agriculture's Crop
Information Unit would be made available to them as grants (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (b) and (c)).
Procurement
59.        Contracts for vehicles, equipment and civil works would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with World Bank guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever practicable,
and a 7½ percent preference would be allowed for domestic civil works
contractors. In the case of civil works for storage facilities where
international competitive bidding is not practicable for reasons such
as small size or scattered location, contracts not to exceed US$200,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the
Association; the aggregate total of such contracts would not exceed
US$2 million equivalent including contingencies. The local construction
industry has experience in this type of work and is considered at present
to have sufficient capacity to meet project needs. Contracts for less
than US$80,000 equivalent for vehicles and equipment would also be
excluded from international competitive bidding and would be awarded on
the basis of local procedures; such contracts would not exceed a total
of US$500,000 equivalent including contingencies. AM purchases of
produce to be financed from the proceeds of the credit would be made
from local suppliers in accordance with current Government procurement
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursement
60.        The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a four-
year period against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
and consulting services;
(b) 100% of foreign and 75% of local costs for vehicles and
equipment;
(c) 100% of the total cost of AMC's purchase of produce; and
(d) 75% of total cost for operating costs, civil works and
market infrastructure improvement.



- 19 -
The amount of $6.15 million that will be disbursed under (c) will be quite
sufficient to cover 75% of the estimated incremental permanent trading
capital requirements of AMC over the project period. The remaining 25%
of incremental permanent trading capital would be provided by the Govern-
ment (para 52). All disbursements would be fully documented, except
operating costs for EGA and the Ministry of Agriculture which would be
reimbursed against appropriate certificates of expenditure, approved by
the General Manager for EGA and by the Head of CIU for the Ministry of
Agriculture, respectively. The documentation to support such disburse-
ments would be retained by EGA and CIU and would be available for inspection
by IDA staff during the course of supervision missions. So that AMC can
construct the storage necessary before the opening of the 1977/78 marketing
season, the project would provide up to US$1.5 million in retroactive
financing to cover credit expenditures for storage design and construction
of warehouses after November 1, 1976. Any funds remaining in the credit
account at the end of the project could be reallocated with the approval
of the Association for the continuing development of grain marketing.
Accounts and Audit
61.       To provide a basis for its pricing decisions, evaluation of the
comparative efficiency of the public marketing effort and determination
of subsidy elements, AMC would establish a comprehensive cost accounting
system which would allow cost identification in different operations such
as produce buying, seasonal storage, retailing, buffer stocking and distri-
bution of inputs. Each AMC branch would-be treated as an individual cost
center in budgeting and accounting. EGA and MOA would maintain separate
project accounts. Assurances were obtained from the Government that all
accounts would be audited by the Auditor General or other independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; AMC, EGA and the Crop Information
Unit within MOA would submit their annual accounts together with the auditors
report to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01 (b)).
Organization and Management
(a) Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
62.        As the main instrument for the implementation of the Government's
marketing and price policy, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation has been
established as a public authority with necessary powers to carry out its
functions. The Corporation is responsible to the Minister of Agriculture
who appoints its Board of Directors, supervises the policies adopted by the
Corporation, and serves as the channel of communication between it and the
Government. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister of Agriculture and
Settlement, and the other members are the Head of the Extension and Cooperative



- 20 -
Development Department (ECODD) of the Ministry of Agriculture (ex-officio),
the General Manager of the Ethiopian Grain Agency (ex officio), a repre-
sentative of the National Bank of Ethiopia, a representative of the Ministry
of Interior, and the General Manager of AMC.
63.       Within the policy framework laid down by the Directors, the
General Manager of AMC has full responsibility for the Corporation's
day-to-day operations. AMC's functional organization consists of four
main departments: a comercial department controlling operations including
branch activities, a transport department handling AMC's own and hired
transport, an accounts and administration department, and a technical
department responsible for construction and maintenance of warehouses
and stock management.   In addition, there are legal, internal audit, and
planning and program=ing sections (the last-named including an internal
performance evaluation unit responsible for monitoring AMC's performance).
Since there are no simple criteria against which the performance of AMC
could be judged, the -work of this monitoring unit will be particularly
important for management guidance. AMC would operate through branch and
sub-branch offices, of which fifteen are operational as they have been
taken over from EGC.
64.       In view of the size and complexities of AMC's operations, seven
key appointments have been identified as critical for the success of the
project. Seven specialists with operational experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Association in grain marketing and input distribution
fields have been appointed to these positions (para 53).
(b) Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA)
65.       EGA would assume increased responsibility for domestic trade market
regulation and improvement as well as market intelligence and analysis. Legis-
lation has recently been passed to give EGA the powers necessary to implement
proJect proposals. Under this new legislation, EGA would continue to be
responsible to the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, and its policy-making
Board would be composed of the Minister of Commerce and Tourism (Chairman),
representatives of the Miaistry of Agriculture and Settlement and the National
Bank of Ethiopia, the General Manager of AMC and the General Manager of EGA,
to whom would be delegated responsibility for its day-to-day operations.
Separate ad hoc committees representing consumers, producers and private trade
would be designated and consulted on major policy decisions.
(c) Crop Information Unit (CIU)
66.       The CIU has been established within the Planning and Programming
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and will be staffed with two high



- 21 -
level posts, one of which would be filled by international recruitment for
the first three years.
Economic Benefits and Justification
67.       The project is central to agricultural development in Ethiopia
and hence to the Government's whole development strategy. Many of its
benefits arise out of its complementarity with other projects such as
Agricultural Minimum Package and the recently approved Road Sector Credit.
It will enhance farmers' grain production incentives through an improved
price mechanism including greater price stability and predictability, by
integrating farmers in remote areas into the national marketing system
and possibly by reducing marketing margins; it will support extension
activities by ensuring timely and adequate distribution of farm inputs;
and it will reduce the incidence of localised and national food shortages
through the construction of storage facilities in the provinces and through
a system of buffer stocking. The last of these is of particular importance
in a country which suffered so severely from the inadequacy of grain
reserves during the 1973/74 drought. Consumers will benefit from the lower
storage losses described below and from the possible reduction in marketing
margins.
68.       The major quantifiable economic benefits of the project result
from the establishment of additional marketing capacity (valued at
existing margins) to handle the incremental volume of produce traded,
and from a reduction in storage losses through the replacement of sub-
standard storage. The economic rate of return on incremental trading
and storage of produce is 18% if the benefits of buffer-stocking oper-
ations are excluded. This rate of return increases to 25% if the
benefits of buffer stocking are included, on the assumptions that
good harvest years occur every fourth year from 1981/82 onwards, and
that buffer stocks are fully utilized to reduce imports the following
year. These rates of return do not take account of the unquantifiable
benefits of an increased capacity to handle food shortages, of improved
income distributlon through possible reduction of margins and of an
expanded farm input delivery system. They also exclude the costs of
providing those benefits which were not quantified.
69.       The project would ensure permanent employment for an additional
400 persons by 1980/81. AMC's handling of incremental grain and inputs
would also by that time have created about 6,000 temporary employment
opportunities. The construction of warehouses would create additional
job opportunities throughout the project period for about 1,500 persons.
Risks
70.       The project faces considerable risks due to lack of information
about the existing marketing system, effects of recent reforms and



- 22 -
shortage of experienced staff. It is for the latter reason a strong
emphasis has been placed on the establishment from the outset of a
qualified management team which provides for staffing and technical
assistance by specialists experienced in grain marketing. Adequate
number of middle and lower level staff are thought to be available.
71.       A major risk deserving attention is that knowledge of the
volume and flow of present trade and of existing storage facilities is
deficient. This may result in excessive and/or wrongly located storage
facilities and high AMC costs.  To minimize this risk, the projected
expansion of warehouse facilities would be reviewed annually (para 50
and draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
72.       A further factor to take into consideration is that AMC's
share of total wholesale trade would depend on its ability to compete
with private trade in the marketing of peasant production. Two situations
may conceivably arise. On one hand, private-trade may have been dis-
couraged by recent price controls, anti-hoarding rules, credit restrictions
and nationalization of storage and the proclaimed restrictions on the
activities in the private sector, in which case AMCs share may increase
so much that it is unable to provide adequate services and operate
efficiently. The result would be a disincentive to production and reduced
benefits. On the other hand, if AMC is unable to operate at least as
efficiently as private trade, it may acquire a low share of the market
or be forced to cut its margin to an extent that it would operate at a
loss. Our best estimate indicates, however, that neither of these two
situations will occur. Some of the factors which tended to discourage
private trade are likely to be offset by (i) the new pricing system
which would price agricultural inputs as well as produce purchased so
as to ensure adequate production incentives for farmers (para 37 and
draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05); (ii) the assurance
that adequate credit would be available to facilitate the overall grain
trade in Ethiopia (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.07);
and (iii) the exceptions for grain trade in recent regulatory legislation
(para 40). Moreover, available information indicates that AMC will be
competitive. As a result, we estimate that AMCs share of wholesale
trade in grain will gradually expand as the total volume of trade increases.
73.       Inadequate information on the size of the harvest, local
shortages and surpluses, on-farm consumption and available stocks may
cause errors in pricing, in the volume and phasing of imports, and
in inter-regional transfers, which may prove costly to AMC. The project
would attempt to minimize these uncertainties by providing for improve-
ment in crop forecasting and market intelligence. The establishment
of price ranges will also give more room for maneuverability than would
a system with fixed and announced floor and ceiling prices.



- 23 -
74.       The project would, however, be able to absorb the impact of
considerable adverse develcpments. A sensitivity analysis indicates that
a 10% increase in costs or 10% reduction of volume of grain handled or
the marketing margins would reduce the economic rate of return to about
15%, while a 20% increase in costs or reduction of benefit would result
in a rate of return of 10%. Only if there is a simultaneous increase of
costs by 20% and decline of benefits by 20% would the return drop to an
unacceptable level of 3%; if buffer stocking benefits are included, however,
the return would be 9%.
75.       Despite the above risks, the project is protected by the fact that
price ranges are to be set to ensure production incentives. The Government
has already moved ahead in establishing the initial phase of an effective
grain marketing system. Given the strong element of technical assistance,
the above risks are worth taking, especially in view of the crucial contri-
bution which this project would make to the development of the agricultural
and rural sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the recommendation of the Committee provided for under Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed development credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are summarized in Annex III to this report. An additional condition
for the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement would be the Govern-
ment's coutribution of additional perranent trading capital of not less than
Birr 4.25 million to AMC (para 52).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1977






TABLE 3A
EThIOPtA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEET
LAND AREA ITWIU KMZ)
4tHOP5                            REFERENCE COLNTRIES (19101
TOTAL     1221.9                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     788.'                      19e0      1970   ESTIMATE            au.L.U      sutm          A't*t
CNP PEt CAPITA lUSS                    40.3      70.0     10o.0               70.0          ,,     140.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLICNI          20.;      24.4      27.9                2.8       14.0        11.2
POPU(LA1'IfMN 0'NSIITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      16.0      20.0      23.0                4.0        6.0        19.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO       29.0      31.0      33.0                ,, .30              202.t
VITAL STATISTtCS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE I/THOU, AV)        51.2      50-3      49.4               41.7       48.9       49.0
CRUCE OEATA RATE (/THOU,AV)         32.9      29.7      25.8               23.8       20.2       17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE l/THOU1       8           ..        ..                ..          ..       55.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSt      33.5      38.5      4j.                38.5       .T.6       47.5
GROSS REPRIDUCTION RATE               ..       2.9       2.9                3.0        3.4         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE ItS)
TOT AL                               1.6       2.3       2.5                2.4        Z.2L       3.1
UREtBAN                                        9.96      0.5                6.'        5.5         6.5
URBAN POPULATION ts Or TOTALI          &.S       9.7      11.3               25.6       Ii.8        9.9
AGE STRUCTUR' (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      43.1      43-0      43.6               46.5       45.0       4a.4
1S TO 64 YEARS                      54.3      5*.    3  33.7               51.6       52.0       48.0
65 YeARS ANO OVER                    2.        2.7       2.7                1.9        1.0         3.6
AGE DEPENoENCY RATIOs 0.8                        0.8       0.9                0.9        0.9        1.1
ECONOMIC OEPENOENCY RATIO               .         *.       1 .24               .2/       1.5        1.
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)          .         ..         *                 *66.-
USERS it OF MPARIED wONEtt            ..        ..        ..
EtMPLOYttEN t
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANVl            ..        ..   10200.0:            1100.0     4300.0      5100.04
L"OR fORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1          883 8t0   a-          ..               42.0        3.3       90.0i
UMNEPLOYED (t OF LABOR FORCE           ..        ..        ..               20.0/b
INCOMCE OISTRIBUTION
t OP PRIVATE INCCOE REC'D BY-
ttGHEST  St OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..                 ..         ..       ZD.2
HIGHOST 201 OF HUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        ..                 .. U9.2/L           52.6 
LOHeST  201 Of HOUSEHOLOS             ..        ..        ..                ..         3.l7       3.9
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..                 ..       L4.5S       11.7
0151IRUTION OF LAND OW&EFSHIP
I OWNEo BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                 ..        ..            ..
t OWNED BY S4ALLEST IO0 OwNERS          ..        ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULArION PER PHYSLC?AN           88910.0   73300.0   69220.0/c          21420.0    14200.0     78 10.3 S r
POPULATION PER MJRSING PeRsoN           ..   z3640.0'  222:o.07g           3260.0/    1370./o    1020.0 
POPULArION PER HOSPITAL BeD         3000.0    Z980.d-   300O.0 0            580.0      930.0a     770.0
PeR CAPtTA SUPPLY OP -
CALORteS IX OP REQUIReMEITSI       8I.0       92.0      93.0/              17.0       91.0       101.0
PRtET   IGRAMS PeR OAYI             66.0      69.0       72.301            57.0       63.0        71.0
oF W.,CH ANIM4AL 4NO PULSE       24.0/4    25.0        .                Z7.0       24..0       29.0
0eATH RATE R /THOJI AG*S 1-4            ..        ..        ..
EDUCATI ON
AOJUSTeD ENROLLMENT RATIO
PtMAtRY SCHOOL                       6.0      181.0     19.td              10.0       33.0       64.0
SEC£ODAOY SCHOOL                     1.0       4.0       5.04L              4.0        6.0        9.0 4
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PPRVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECO4D LtVELJ            12.0      12.0      12.0               12.0       12.0        13.0
VOCATtONAL ENROLLMENT
lit OF SECCNDARYI                   20.3       4.0       3.0                 ..        1.0         2.0a
ADULT LTEfRACY PATE '%)               20          .°       7.0                          t15.0      30.0
HousING
PEtRSoNS PeR ROOM (URBANI              2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WVTHOUT                                                               2.5  ,       . .
PIPED WATER (It
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                    .         .        .                   .
(11 OF ALL DW4ELLINGS)
RItAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED             3N04        *-                                    26.0 ..  .
TO ELECTRICITY lti                    ..        ..        ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
8A010 RECEIVERIS (PeR THOtj pOp)       4.3       6.0        7.0              18.0         ..        46.0
PASSENGER CARS lPeR tHCU POP)I         I.0       2.0       2.-0                          2. 
ELECttRlCTVY IKWH/YR PER CAPI          5a0      21.0       2.0               100 a. 2.               9 0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PEl CAPI                                 :: :a aO3           0 2        aD
SEE NOTES AND OEFINIt IONS ON REVERSE



t                                                                  IP
5         h
4 C.
its
Vla-I - I -Al
a
p                                     k7j
I A
t',-
Ms
I A
ze
31
3 N
42
.19
qt
I V.    1.



ANNhEXI
Page 3
ECO0HIC DEVELOWPB4DNT DATA
(Amts in illiona of U.S. dollars)
Actual        Etimated    Pro1ected     1965-   1973-   1975-   1980-
NATION6 ACCOUNTS I/         1973    1974    1975    1976   __ S     9g,    1973    1975    1980    1985   1973    1975    1980
Annual Daca    at 1967-1969 Prices 6 Exchange Rates Averase Annual Grovth Rates    Am Percent of CD!
Gross Domstic Product      1906.8  1933.8  1945.7  2004.1 2397.1  2933.9    4.1     2.3     4.0     4.1   98.1    99.4    98.5
Gains from Terms of Trade (+) 37.3   27.0    toj      9.6   36.8    30.8     .       .       .       .      1.9    0.6    1.
Gross Domestic Incoa       1944.1  1960.8  1956.4  2012.7  2433.9  2964.7   3.9     3.0     4.0     4.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports (loci. VFS)         194.0   198.9   223.6  201.9   336.0   407.4   -3.2    29.2     4.2    3.9    10.0    11.4    13.8
exports   (import capacity) _244 1  Z7 -.1  J84    i9Z.1  -261.7  -3C9.7    1.6     4,7    31;      3.4  -L2.5    ZL    -3.1
Resoures Gap                -50.0    -.2     39.5    9.d    74.3    97-7                                  -2.5     2.0     3.1
Consumption Expenditures   1oau.o  1703.2  1805.3  Losy.5  2206.7  2690.2   3.5     6.4     3.6     4.0   86.4    92.2     90.7
Investment    (incl.        213.5   189.4   190.6   183.2  301.5   372.2    2.1    -2.6     8.3     4.3   10.9     9.7    12.4
Domestic Savings            263.5   197.7   151.1   173.4   227.3  274.5    6.9   -22.1     8.0     3.8    13.5     7.7    9.3
National Savings            267.7   220.3   166.2   213.8   229.7  264.7    6.1   -18.1     5.7     2.9    13.7    8.4     9.4
IMECIEANDISE TRADE 2/               Annual Data at Current Prices                                           As Pareent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods            65.3    48.1    44.6    55.8   103.2                                            30.0    13.2   17.2
Fuels                    21.6    58.0    63.2    71.6   117.6                                            10.0    18.6   19.7
Iniacmrdlace Goods       56.7    77.8    91.4   100.6   158.2                                            26.0   27.0    26.4
Comnsmtion Good4         74.2   111.6   139.7   148.9   219.4                                            34.0    41.2   36.7
Total March. Imports    2 7.8   295.5   338.9   3.0     598.4                                           -      100.0    100.0
(cif)
Exports
Primary Products        187.5   195.7   164.6   260.8   267.4                                            78.1   68.6    67.2
Manufactured Coods       52.6    80.1    75.5    82.0   130.4                                            21.9   31.4    32.8
Total March. Ezports    240.1   275.8   240.1   342.8  39.38                                            100.0   100.0   100.0
(fob)
Tourim & Border rade     ..      ..
Merchandise Trade ltdicas               Averase 1969-69 - 100
Export Price Index      16.3 37  206.76  195.27 212.40  254.13  340.73
Import Pries Index      140.09  179.77  183.86 195.80  218.37  306.88
Terms of Trade lodas    118.05  115.02  106.20 130.84  116.37  111.03
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR 1/  Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates Average .Annual Groweh Rates  An Percent of Total
Agriculture                890.8   885.9   868.7   896.8  1175.6  1415.2    ..      0.4    3. S   3.9   50.4    48.4    48.3
Industry and Kining        293.8   292.2   287.8   280.1  401.6   496.1     ..      2.9    4.3   4.4    16.7    16.0    16.5
Services                   579.9   612.0   638.4   672.2  856.7  1053.5     ..      5.4           4.3   32.9    35.6    35. 2
Total                     1764.4  1790.0  1795.0  1849.1  2397.1  2933.9    *-      2.3    4.0   Z-     100.0   1       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE (Millional/ 1972/73   1973/74    1974/75     1975/76 31    1976/774/                        As Percent of GDP
of Birr) (Cantral                                                                                    1973/74  1975/76.'
Government)
Currenc RAeaipca            556.8      618.9      711.4      793.9        844.9                           11.2   13.4
Current Expenditures        476.7      529.5      737.8     858.8         927.1                            9.6   14.4
Budgetary Savings            8O.1       89.4      -26.4     -64.9         -82.2                            1.7  -.1
Other Public Sector           ..         ..         .          ..
Public Sector Investment    129.9      134.3      192.4     248.37        424.9                            2.4   4 .2     *
CURRENT ELPENDITURE DETAlLS 1/
(As Z Total Currenc Expend)
Actual          Prelim.     Eat.
1973/74   1974/75  1975/76     1976/77
Educaciom                    20.4      18.9      16.8       19.4
Other Social Services         7.4       8.5       6.3        8.3
Agriculture                   2.8       3.3       3.7        3.8
Other Economic Services      10.9      11.8       7.1        8.0
Administration & Defense     49.7      48.6      56.5       47.6
Other                         8.8      S.9        9.6       12.9
Total Current Expenditures  100.0     100.0   T10          T
1965-   1973-   1975-   1980-
SELECTED INDICATORS j/              1973    1975    1980   1985
(Calculated from 3-year
averaged data)
Average ICOR                         3.2     4.7     3.0    3.1
Imporc Easticity                    -0.8    11.2    1.1     1.0
Marginal National Savings Rate       0.2   -1.0      0.1    0.1
Not applicable
Hot avail.able
/    Ethiopian figcal years.
/    Ca±ser rear.
3/   Provtston.
4/   Budglet.                                                                                       April 11. 1977



AINEX I
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at currene prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual             Estimated          Projected                    Growth Rate
SUMM4ARY BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS       _      1973   1914    i9i]    1976   1977    1978   1979    1980    1985    1972-1980
Exports (incl. NFS)            246.8   341.9  372.3   342.6   420.0  444.4   475.9   519.9  571.5   950.0      11.1
Imports (incl. NFS)            236.7   271.8  357.5   414.9   486.9  525.7   590.7   659.9  733.7  1250.4      15.2
Resource Balance (X-M)          10.1    70.1   14.8   -72.3   -66.9  -81.4  -114.9 -140.0 -162.2   -299.9
Interest (Net)                  -6.1    -3.0    9.4    15.3  ) 12.0   23.3    19.8   13.5     4.8   -26.9
Direct lnvemasent Income       -13.1   -16.9  -20.6   -29.1  )       -15.0   -12.0   -10.0  -10.0   -10.0
workers' Reuittance               -       -      -       -      -       -
Current Transfers (net)         17.7    25.7   51.9    39.9    56.4   10.0    10.0    10.0   10.0    10.0
3alance on Current Account       8.6    75.9   55.6   -46.2          -63 .1  -7     -126.5 -157.4 -326.9
Private Direct Investment        9.7    31.0   36.2    19.1    ..    -45.0   -45.0  -45.0     5.0     5.0
Official Capital Grants           -       -      -       -              -       -
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                 32.9    38.6   36.0    80.8    ..     86.6    78.8    86.9  181.0   383.4       23.8
-Rspayments                   -13.3   -13.2  -11.5   -14.6          -18.8   -16.9  -17.0   -15.0   -29.9        0.2
Net Disbursaenta                19.6    25.3   24.5    66.2    ..      67.8     61.9  69.9  166.0   353.5
Capital Transaction  n.e.i.     -1.1   -13.5  -10.1    -9.4    ..                                   Actual       Eatimated
ChAnge in Not Rese-ves         -34.1  -105.3  -88.9   -10.4   -14.8                          1972    1973   1974    1975
DublT   eb  oT. &PisIM       226.4   257.6  284.1    389.9
GRANT AND LOAN C0)oaSK                                              Interest on Public Debt     8.1    8.9     9.7    11.4
Official Grants & Grant-like      -       -      -       -        Repayments on Public Debt  13.3   13.3    11.5    14.6
Total Public Debt Service  21.4    22.2   21.2    26.0
Public M&LT Loans                                                 Other Debt Service (net)     -      -       -       -
hD                            10.8      -      -       -        Total Debt Service (net)   21.4   22.2    21.2    26.0
UK                            34.3    53.0    52.9     -
Other Multilateral              -       -      -     14.2     Burden on Export Earnings (S)
Governments                   19.4    26.6    42.5   48.2
Suppliers                       -       .1     .1      .4       Public Debt Service)        8.7    6.5     5.8     7.6
Financial Institutions          -      6.0     -       -        Total Debt Service )
Bonds                           -       -      -       -        TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.  14.0    11.4   11.5    13.0
Public Loans n.e.i.              -      -       -     7.0
Total Public M&LT Loans         64.5    85.7    95.6   69.T      Average Terms of Public Debt
EXTERNAL DEBT            Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975    tat. as Z Prior Year DO&D  3.6     3.5     3.4    3.0
Disbursed OnlY          Percent        Amort. as 2 Prior Year DO&D  5.9    5.1    4.0     3.6
World 3ank                      69.4                 18.2
IDA                             73.4                 19.2       IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral              14.2                  3.7        IBRD as S Public Debt 0&D   28.3    26.2    23.4    17.8
Governments                    193.2                 50.7       IBRD as Z Public Debt Service 28.9   33.7    39.0    34.6
Suppliers                        0.6                  0.2
Pinancial Institutions          25.2                  6.6        DA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                             -                    -         IDA as S Public Debt O&D    14.7    17.6    19.3    18.8
Public Debts n.a.i.              5.4                  1.4       MDA as S Public Debt Service  1.3     2.2     2.4     2.3
Total Public M&LT Debt         381.4                100.0
Other MALT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                a   staff eastimte
not available                                                 -   nil or negligible
... not available separately                                      -   lass than half the
but included in total                                             smallest unit shon
EACPIB



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                         STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1977)*
Amount
Loan or                                                           (US$ Million)
Credit                                                     (less cancellation)   Undis-
Number    Year    Borrower              Purpose                 Bank     IDA     bursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                       93.3
Six  credits fully disbursed                                             45.8
605-ET    1969    BTE 1/       Telecommunications IV             4.5              0.5
243-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Education II                               9.5     3.0
269-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Dairy                                      4.4     2.6
818-ET    1972    AAWSA 2/     Addis Ababa Water Supply
and Sewerage                   10.8              0.7
290-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Coffee Processing                          6.3     3.6
332-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Highways V                                17.0     6.5
365-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Livestock II                               5.0     3.6
416-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Agricultural Minimum Package              21.0     4.3
417-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Education III                             10.0     9.2
418-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Amibara Irrigation                        17.0    15.7
453-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V                      21.4    14.6
485-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Drought Areas Rehabilitation              10.0     8.0
486-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Wolaita Agriculture II                    12.0     9.8
516-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Lower Adiabo                               9.5     8.5
552-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Highways VI                               32.0     18.1
553-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Education IV                              23.0    18.6
554-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V (2nd Tranche)        16.0    16.0
603-ET    1976    Ethiopia     Rangelands Development                    27.0    26.9
Total                                                 108.6   286.9   170.3
of which has been repaid                            39.7     0.7
Total now outstanding                                  68.9   286.2
Amount Sold                           6.0
of which has been repaid           6.0               -       -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                     68.9   286.2
Total undisbursed                                       1.2   169.1   170.3
1/ Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
2/ Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
* A $25.0 million IDA credit for a Revised Amibara Irrigation Project and a $32.0 million
IDA credit for Road Sector Project were approved on May 10, 1977. Neither of these
credits has as yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
ETHIOPIA
B.                              STATEKENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1977)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                                  Type of             Amount
Year                 Obligor                           Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Textile Mills of Dire Dava I                  Textiles    1.5      1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.                   Paper                1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metabara, S.C.                            Sugar       5.5      3.5       9.0
1970     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II                 Textiles    0.4      0.2       0.6
1973     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I1I                Textiles    1.5      0.2       1.7
Total dross Comitments                                    8.9      6.8      15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               5.7      3.1       8.8
Total Comitments now held by IYC                          3.2      3.7        6.9
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Ln. No. 605 Telecommunications IV Project: US$4.5 million Loan of June 3,
1969; Date of Effectiveness: September 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to December 31, 1974, subsequently
to December 31, 1975, then to December 31, 1976, and then to
December 31, 1977.
The project is physically complete. However, the three
microwave routes, though carrying commercial calls, have not yet been
finally accepted because of some component failures. US$0.5 million
still remaining is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Cr. No. 243 Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily with 54
institutions completed or near completion, including the Academy of Pedagogy
and its teachers institute. Of the remaining institutions, completion of 11
is well under way. In June 1976, assistance for completion of three addi-
tional primary teacher training institutes as well as for extension of an existing
junior secondary teacher training institute have been included in the project;
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
those additions are scheduled for completion during 1977. The education
survey has been completed and technical assistance for four programs
progresses quite well. Latest project cost estimates show savings in the
credit account of ITS C.71 million due to bilateral technical assistance.
The Government wishes to use the savings for upgrading junior to senior
secondary schools and will shortly present its detailed proposal for IDA
approval.
Cr. No. 269 Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project called for the development of 350 dairy farms near
Addis Ababa and the improvement of milk marketing and processing. A total
of 41 dairy farms were provided with loans under the project; however, this
program came to a halt with the introduction of the land reform in April
1975, and lending procedures for providing long-term loans to the farming
community have not as yet been formulated. It is intended that future loans
will be made to peasant assoc±ations and state farms. International tenders
have been obtained for expansion and renovation of the Addis Ababa'dairy
plant, and the contract is being awarded. Milk output at the Addis Ababa
dairy plant has gone down and serious efforts are required to increase rilk
supply. Government has decided to establish a new Animal and Fisheries
Development Authority and this would absorb the Dairy Development Agency.
Cr. No. 290 Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of March 20,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project was to increase Ethiopia's coffee export earnings
by improving processing methods and in particular to construct 100 coffee
washing stations, 400 km of roads, provide credit for the rehabilitation of
private coffee washing stations, fund a coffee research program and be
involved in a survey of Ethiopia's coffee economy. To date, the project has
only constructed six stations and about    half of the roads program, mainly
due to initial staffing and procurement delays and subsequently due to
political changes which made various project concepts and financing un-
workable. A September 1976 supervision mission's findings indicate that
because of significant increases in coffee prices the project remains econo-
mically and financially viable in spite of substantial cost escalations.
The Project Implementation Unit has the necessary key personnel and resources
to carry out the project with a reduced target of about 58 coffee washing
stations, but the closing date requires c 12 months' extension to December 31,
1978. The balance of IDA funds will be sufficient for this purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 818  Addis Ababa Water Supplv and Sewerage Project:     USS10.S million
Loan of Mav 2, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: September 8, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The water supply component is substantially complete, ahead of
schedule and of good quality, disbursements for this component are expected
to continue until the closing date. Financing of the first phase of the
sewerage component has been facilitated by a supplementary loan from the
ADF equivalent to US$5.5 million and by a Government loan equivalent to
US$2 million. Completion is expected by March, 1978, 15 months behind
schedule. Financial and management problems are aggravated by the country's
political climate.   Lack of progress in revising    tariff is due to AAWSA's
delay in submitting a tariff proposal to the Government, as well as the
Government's reluctance to consider tariff increases. Government action on a sub-
stantial tariff increase is being urged by the Bank.
Cr. No. 332 Fifth Highway Project; US$17.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 24, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Three of the four roads under the Fifth Project have been completed,
one by a domestic contractor assisted under the project, and the fourth is
expected to be completed by, end 1977, all within the contract prices.    Other
project components have been or are being satisfactorily implemented.
Cr. No. 365 Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of April 2, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1973; Closing Date: July 15,
1977.
The project has been effective for over three years but has not
yet completed its first year construction program. However, the construction
program has recently been stepped up, and marketing and abattoir operations
are scheduled to commence by end-1976. The project faces manager4el problems
and future operations may suffer unless management is soon strengthened.
Because of cost overruns, the scope of the project hLs been reduced, and
available funds are expected to be exhausted by end-1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 416 Agricultural Minimum Package Project: US$21.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977.
The project lost some of its momentum during the 1975/76 growing
season as a consequence of staff turnover in ECODD, some management problems,
continuing ramifications of the land reform and general unrest in several
provinces. The flow of information from the extension areas to Addis Ababa
has also suffered. Although adequate fertilizer for the 1975/76 growing
season was made available to ECODD marketing centers, the extent of actual
sales to farmers is not known. Similarly, 1975/76 data on credit recovery,
yields and production and future fertilizer requirements have not been
clearly determined. About 100 junior staff positions are still vacant in
ECODD. However, road and storage construction has started as well as other
activities such as soil conservation, livestock improvement, horticulture
and home economic programs, all of which are progressing well. Due to
high fertilizer costs, disbursements are ahead of schedule and are expected
to be complete by the closing date.
Cr. No. 417 Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After initial delays, project implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily.  Most civil works are scheduled for completion by early to
mid-1977. Consequently disbursements are expected to rise rapidly in the
near future. Government has requested deletion of the Orthodox Church
Training Center and proposes substitution of 180 community skill training
centers as part of its rural development program; this request was favorably
endorsed during appraisal of a proposed fifth education project. Preparation
of furniture and equipment lists, tender and contract documents is complete.
Technical assistance programs and fellowship for the Animal Health Institute
are being implemented satisfactorily. The Government is providing adequate
financing and finAl total project cost may remain within the appraisal estimate
including contingencies.
Cr. No. 418 Amibara Irrigation Project; US$17.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness; August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
A new credit of $25.0 million was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 10, 1977 for a Revised Amibars Irrigation Project.
Upon effectiveness of the new credit, the amount of Credit 418 outstanding
and disbursed - $1.3 million - will be repaid in full from the proceeds
of the new credit, and the balance of credit 418 will be cancelled.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 453 Telecommunications V Project (First Tranche); US$21.4 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 23,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Fcllewing initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and st.ff changes, procurement and initial installation work, the project
has been steadily progressir.g. The Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial delays by accelerating the
subseqiuent works.
Cr. No. 485 Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Implementation of most sub-projects is underway, although seriously
behind schedule. The progress of implementation is difficult to estimate
since quarterly progress reports are not being prepared. A shortage of staff
in the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission's Finance Department is similarly
causing delays in preparation of financial statements of expenditure, which
in turn has delayed requests for disbursement. Future supervision attention
will focus on proposals for reorganization of the project's overall management
and accounting. The closing date will have to be postponed.
Cr. No. 486 Second Wolaita Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to staff unrest and difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness,
initial project implementation was slow. Some senior staff were replaced in
1975 and although the project is understaffed, it is now gaining momentum.
Despite supply problems, construction of roads and cooperative marketing center
stores is on target but other construction activities are behind schedule.
Farmers' interest in the project is growing steadily with 140 Peasant
Associations out of the 273 in the Wolaita Awraja involved in the project. Farm
inputs supplies for the 1975/76 season increased by 32% compared with 1974/75.
The livestock component is still lagging behind, mainly due to staff shortage.
Credit recovery remains low with total repayments amounting to about 60%.
Cr. No. 516 Lower Adiabo Development Project: US$9.5 million Credit of
October 18, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The security situation in the project area has deteriorated
during recent months causing the project difficulties in obtaining supplies
and preventing both ECODD extension and IDA supervision missions from
visiting the project area. Progress had previously been made with village
cooperative society formation, land use planning and farm development, but
work on building construction, borehole development, and cooperative ranch



ANNEX II
Page 8
development is not known to have started as yet. We propose to ask the
G;overnment to set up a reporting system which, in the absence of supervision
missions, would enable us to obtain at least some information on a continuing
basis. Thle future of the project will be reviewed in this light in due course.
Cr. No. 552 Sixth Highway Project; US$32.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Implementation o; the project is proceeding well. Three of the
four roads have been let to contract, with the contract prices all within
appraisal escimates; the fourth road is being constructed by force account.
Contracts Cor the road mainten.ance equipment and weighbridges have been
awarded and most of the equipment has been delivered. Plans are in hand
for the construction of rural roads workshops for the provinces of Wellega
and Illubabor.
Cr. No. 553 Fourth Education Project: US$23.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The Project Unit is making very satisfactory progress. The
construction program is well advanced and most facilities will be completed
by mid-1977. Proctrement of furniture and equipment for different project
facilities is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 554 Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche); US$16.0 imillion
Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Following initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and stafE changes, procurement and initial installation work under the project
lias been steadily progressing.  The Ielecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial (ielavs ty accelerating the sub-
sequent works.
Cr. No. 603 Rangelands Development Project: US$27.0 million Credit of
January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 18, 1q76; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is somewhat behind schedule. However, most key
staff have been recruited and tenders for the construction of Project Head-
quarters buildings in two of the three rangeland areas are being prepared.
Some vehicles have been purchased. A road and stockpond construction program
using non-project funds made good progress in the Southern Rangelands project
area but has had to be stopped because of deteriorating law and order. There
are some indications however, that security is being restored in the South
and the Project can operate freely in the Jijiga area and in the central part
of North East Rangelands. Veterinary staff have been recruited in two areas



ANNEX II
Page 9
and discussions are being held with pastoralists regarding their organizational
role in the development. Some delay is inevitable during the ongoing reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture and its associated institutions. This is not
expected,however,to seriously affect project implementation..



Annex III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 17 months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Ethiopia, USAID and RMEA
(c) Bank Preappraisal: August 1974
(d) Bank Appraisal: March 1975
(e) Project Revision by Joint Bank-Government Working Group: June/July 1975
(f)  Bank-Government discussions of Revised Project:   February 1976
(g) Negotiations: June 1976 (adjourned)
(h)  Discussions between Bank and Government on revised proposals: November 1976
(i)  Negotiations resumed:  January 1977 and completed in February 1977
(j) Recruitment of key staff and passage of legislation: May 1977
(k) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1977
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.  Special Conditions
1. A variation of more than 25% in the aggregate volume of storage space
from the agreed upon four-year plan of warehouse construction, or any
other substantial deviation from the plan, would necessitate mIA's
further agreement for the following year's construction program
(para 50).
2.  The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) would be provided
sufficient overdraft facilities with local coamercial banks to
cover its incremental trading capital requirements (para 52).
3. Any disbursement from EGA's Market Infrastructure Improvement
Fund for-the improvement of local grain market facilities would
be matched by at least an equal amount from the local authority
concerned (para 55).
4. AMC's produce price structure would ensure adequate production
incentives to farmers, and AMC would consult with the Association
in this regard; the Association would periodically be informed
regarding the import volumes of produce, price ranges, fertilizer
prices and any resulting subsidies (para 72).



Annex III
Page 2
5. Adequate credit would be made available to facilitate the overall
grain trade in Ethiopia (para 72).
IV.  Additional Condition of Effectiveness
The Government would contribute additional permanent trading capital
of not less than Birr 4.25 million to the Agricultural Marketing
Corporation (para 52).






IB3D 12045
I *   - :t  9        *;zeo -           EIT H  10 P I A T-t I  I
'',-' -  L- GRAIN STORAGE AND
-< *> ~ rg' h7 e d  ¢MARKETING PROJECT
X  S   U   D  NoVN                                             It1O- L JC*TLS
a *.  sg _ <Q as/f  'I
E GE    R ,A "..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aG °/                A den 
! W_ E L L E G A  S   E W AN -                  -
ID^   AMO>  _  R - X g   H A R A
t I L_L  U  BA  a  0  Rv t 
>       2-;f1    w.- {f  A ~~~~RU SSI,                           /
/< ,rS ___- 3- zt_         >'         O /t g  o  d   e  n          /
G   E M  U                g>  ' A  L                      R  -A/- Erci
UGANDAAN                   --
E. ) ' f \ ,# '.                        .   n            - 
[_-   ~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~ D A M



