Report No. 969b-ET
Ethiopia                                                                   FILE CO
Appraisal of the Grain Storage                                                                  py
and Marketing Project
May 17, 1977
East Africa Region
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CCRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   Ethiopian Birr
US $0.483                       Birr 1.00
US $1.00                        Birr 2.07
US $483,000                     Birr 1.0 million
WEIGHTS ASD MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 quintal (qt)                 10C kilograms (kg)
1 metric ton (MT)               2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 square meter (m2)            1.19599 square yards (sq)
1 cubic meter (mi3)             1.3079 cubic yards (cu)
1 hectare (ha)                  2.471- acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADDU          Ada District Development Unit
AIDB          Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AIMS          Agricultural Inputs Marketing Services
AMC           Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CADU          Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit
c.i.f.        Cost, insurance, freight
CIu           Crop Information Unit
CSO           Central Statistical Office
DAP           Diammonium Phosphate.
ECA           Economic Commission for Africa
EGA           Ethiopian Grain Agency (formerly Ethiopian Grain Board)
EGC           Ethiopian Grain Corporation
ECODD         Extension and Co-Operative Development Department (formerly EPID)
ESI           Ethiopian Standards Institute
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the Un-ted Nations
f.o.b.        Free on board
GDP           Gross domestic product
ICB           International Competitive Biddinig
MC            Marketing Center
MCT           Ministry of Commerce and Tourism
MIIF          Market Infrastructure Improvement Fund
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement
MPP           Minimum Package Program
NBE           National Bank of Ethio3ia
PPD           Planning and Programmiag Department of MOA
RMEA          Resident Mission in Eastern Africa
RRC           Relief and Rehabilitation Commission
SIDA          Swedish International Developme-ntll Authority
SORADEP       Southern Region Agricultural Development Project
USAID         United States Agency for Int-ernational Development
WADU          Wollayita Agricultural Development Unit
GOVERNMEN7 OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......    .......................
I.  INTRODUCTION  ........................................1
II.   BACKGROUND       ................................            2
A.   General  ........................                       2
B.  The Agricultural Sector  ..................             2
C.  Land Reform   .................................         3
D.   Production, Consumption, and Trade in Cereals,
Oilseeds and Pulses ........                         3
E.  The Package Programs .......*.et .     ................  5
III.   MARKETING AND PRICE POLICIES  .............                 5
A.  General Policy  ......     ........................      5
B.   New Structure of Grain Marketing  ............. ..      6
C.   Input Distribution  ...........................        8
D.  Price Policy  .......     .........................     8
E.  The Institutional Framework  ..................  ..    10
IV.  THE PROJECT  ......................... o ..............    13
A. General Description               ....    13
B.   Detailed Description  .............. . ............    13
C.  Project Costs    8 .         .     ..............    16
D.   Financing        ......................................  17
E. Procurement .       ...............,.. .............    18
F.   Disbursement  .................. ... ...    18
G. Accounts and Audit                ....   19
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..    .......................    19
A.   Agricultural Marketing Corporation  ....    .........    19
B.   Ethiopian Grain Agency ............ ,.............    21
C.   Crop Information Unit  .       .........................    22
VI.   BENEFICIARIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....      .    .       22
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ........ .........    25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............    27
This document has a rmtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanrc
of their oMcial dutiss. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotiaation.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Production, Consumption and Trade in Cereals, Oilcrops and Pulses
2. Input Supply
3. Government Grain Marketing Policy
4. Price Policy
5. Servicing ECODD Marketing Centers and Cooperative Societies
6. State Farm Production
7. Grain Imports and Security Reserves
8. Agricultural Marketing Corporation
9. Marketing Regulation and Improvement
10. Market Intelligence and Analysis
11. Crop Forecasting
12. Ethiopian Grain Agency
13. Economic Analysis
14. Implementation Schedule
15.  Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
16. Storage Construction
17. Government Cash Flow
18. Customs Duties and Taxes
19. Monitoring Indices
MAP



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Following the revolution of 1974, the new Ethiopian Government is
promoting the redistribution of income in favor of the rural poor and is assign-
ing a larger role to the public sector. The long awaited land reform of March
1975 has removed the main constraint to accelerated agricultural development
and as a result the Minimum Package Program (MPP), launched in 1971 and
receiving IDA support, is now expected to expand rapidly. However, even
before the events of 1974 and 1975 it was apparent that measures to improve
agricultural marketing were urgently needed since year to year price fluctua-
tions, and the low prices prevailing in the immediate post-harvest period and
at isolated village markets, were limiting farmers' incentives to adopt recom-
mended imDrovements, notably, the use of fertilizers.
ii.       Taking advantage of the changed conditions following land reform,
Government has created an Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) as a
trading organization, to handle the output of State Farms, grain imports and
increasing production from MPP areas so that, with an expected 45% share of
the total wholesale trade in grain, oilseeds and pulses by 1980/81, it would
be in a position to exercise a major influence on pricing in private trade.
At the same time Government would use AMC as its instrument to maintain sta-
ble market prices within certain ranges (price limits) and would compensate AMC
for losses incurred in any import, export and/or buffer stocking operations
that it may undertake to maintain these limits. The lower limit would be
set to assure the producer sufficient incentives in the use of recommended
inputs. The upper limit would determine the extent of subsidy requirements.
If set at import parity, no subsidy would be involved but, based on forecast
world market conditions, domestic prices would have to rise to nearly double
their 1975 level. If set below import parity to protect consumers from a
price rise of this magnitude, imports of grain would need to be subsidized,
and in addition it may be necessary to subsidize farm inputs to maintain the
producer incentives stipulated by the lower limit. The level of consumer
protection would be left to Government to determine and would have no direct
relationship with the Project.
iii.      To facilitate integration with the agricultural development program
and to better utilize its managerial, storage and transport resources, AMC
is also responsible for the import, domestic procurement and distribution
of farm inputs. In addition to the establishment of AMC, Governnent has
exnanded the export oriented duties of the Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) to
cover sunervision and regulation of domestic trade in grain, oilseeds and
pulses, promotion of market infrastructure improvements, analysis of the
development of the grain market to provide a better basis for policy decisions
and evaluation of Project performance and the marketing system as a whole.
iv.       The Project would over four years support the establishment of an
orderly grain marketing and input distribution svstem in Ethiopia and would



- ii -
provide AMC with incremental storage facilities for produce and farm inputs,
vehicles, office and storage equipment, some internationally recruited staff,
a headquarters building and incremental permanent trading capital. The
Project would also strengthen EGA through the provision of vehicles and
office equipment, technical assistance, operating costs for the new Internal
Marketing and Market Intelligence Departments and through the establishment
of a fund to support improvements to local market places. Finally, the
Project would improve crop forecasting by providing a new Crop Information
Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement with vehicles and
office equipment, technical assistance and consulting services, and operating
costs during the Project period.
v.        AMC is established as a public authority under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Settlement with the necessary powers to carry out the grain
marketing and input distribution tasks and to implement the Government's
price policy decisions. It has superseded the Ethiopian Grain Corporation
(EGC) and the Agricultural-Inputs Marketing services (AIMS). Operating
through branch offices, AMC aims at covering its costs including deprecia-
tion and a reasonable return on its permanent non-redeemable capital. The
Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) would continue to be responsible to the Minister
of Commerce and Tourism, and new legislation has been promulgated to cover
its additional tasks of domestic market supervision and policy formulation
(on the basis of improved market intelligence) was well as its export trade
regulation functions.
vi.       The Project would cost US$34.6 million; its foreign exchange compo-
nent would be US$12.4 million. The proposed IDA Credit of US$24.0 million
would cover 75% of the Project's total costs net of taxes (US$2.62 million).
The remaining 25% would be met by Government. The IDA and Government contri-
butions would be channeled to AMC in the form of permanent non-redeemable
capital and to EGA and MOA as grants. The resources of EGC and AIMS, esti-
mated at US$10.2 million, have been transferred to AMC and Government would
assure AMC sufficient overdraft facilities with commercial banks at standard
interest terms to meet its peak trading capital requirements.
vii.      Construction of storage facilities would be spread evenly over the
Project period and would be scattered over some 7-11 locations in any one year.
Contracts would be let in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for
construction estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent would be subject
to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) with a 7 1/2% preference to domes-
tic contractors, as would the construction of a headquarters building. Pro-
curement of vehicles and equipment would be subject to ICB. Orders for less
than US$80,000 equivalent would, however, be procured under normal Government
procedures.
viii.     The Project's objectives, to stabilize prices at levels providing
adequate production incentives, to expand and improve input distribution and
to improve market infrastructure, are expected to increase the production of
grain, oilseeds and pulses but it has not been possible to quantify these
benefits.



- iII -
Neither has it been Possible to estimate the value of an increased capacitv
to meet localized food emergencies, nor income distribution effects from
a possible reduction in marketing margins. Thus the quantifiable benefits
can be attributed only to reduced storage losses due to the elimination of
substandard warehouses and to the Incremental marketing capacity created
under the Project, which has been valued at estimated existing margins in
private trade. About 65% of project costs are included in the economic
analysis. The marketing structure which would be strengthened and sup-
ported by the Project would facilitate the expansion of the package pro-
grams which introduce new production techniques to small farmers. At the
same time, the Project would help to protect consumers from excessive retail
margins and seasonal price variations.
ix.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 18%.  The Project
faces considerable risks emanating from shortage of managerial staff and de-
ficient knowledge about the volume and flow of present trade, about the costs
and profits in private trade and about supply and demand. The Project includes
measures which would improve the decision-making framework of the grain sub-
sector. A sensitivity analysis reveals that the Project is able to absorb
considerable adverse developments. The Project would still yield a rate of
return of 10% if costs were increased or benefits reduced by 20%.
x.        This would be the Bank Group's thirteenth lending for agricul-
tural development in Ethiopia since the beginning of 1969. Three of these
projects have been for livestock development. The remaining projects in the
agricultural sector include the Lower Adiabo Development Project, two Wolamo
Development Projects, and Humera Settlement, Amibara Irrigation, Coffee
Processing, Minimum Package, and Drought Areas Rehabilitation projects;
agricultural credit was also included in a DFC project to the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB).
xi.       The necessary assurances having been obtained, the proposed Project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$24.0 million to the Government of Ethiopia.



I



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Although a precise strategy for future agricultural development in
Ethiopia has not emerged since the revolution of 1974, the Provisional Military
Government clearly intends to promote a radical redistribution of resources and
incomes in favor of the rural poor and to assign a much larger role to the
public sector. In the wake of the land reform measures of March 1975 the
emphasis in agriculture will be on widespread development measures and on food
crop production.
1.02      Even before the events of 1974 and 1975, it was apparent that measures
to improve agricultural marketing were urgently needed, since year to year price
fluctuations, the extent of seasonal price variations and in particular the
low prices prevailing in the immediate post-harvest period and at more isolated
village markets were limiting the adoption of improvements, notably, the use
of fertilizer under the Minimum Package Program launched in 1971. Land reform
has altered the situation in two major ways. First the nationalization of
large scale farming enterprises and their conversion into State Farms has led
to their output being marketed through public sector channels. Secondly, land
reform may have temporary disruptive effects on production and will lead to
increased on-farm consumption. Resultant deficiencies in marketed output will,
for the time being, have to be made good by imports which will also be handled
by the public sector.   These changes provide a favorable opportunity for the
introduction of the reforms in the marketing system for grain, oilseeds and
pulses proposed under the Project.
1.03      This would be the Bank Group's thirteenth lending to Ethiopia for
agriculture since the beginning of 1969. The Minimum Package, Wollamo
Development (two phases) and Lower Adiabo Projects emphasize smallholder
production. Other projects include three livestock projects, a land settle-
ment project at Humera, an irrigation project at Amibara, and Coffee Process-
ing and Drought Rehabilitation Projects. In addition, a DFC project included
an agricultural credit component to the Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (AIDB). The Amibara Project has suffered from cost overruns.
Overall, performance has been mixed. Difficulties have occurred particularly
where major structural reforms have taken place since project approval, and
where security problems have been experienced.
1.04      The original project proposal was prepared in 1973/74 by the
Ministry of Agriculture with assistance from the Bank's Resident Mission in
Eastern Africa (RMEA) and the United States Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID) and was reviewed by a pre-appraisal mission which visited Ethiopia
in August 1974. During appraisal in March 1975 it became clear that the
Provisional Military Government intended to institute public control over
marketing and pricing and that changes in the project concept were also
required to take into account the implementation of the land reform measures.
Accordingly, the project was rewritten in June-July 1975 in Ethiopia by a
working group consisting of Messrs. B. Nekby, K. Niemann (IDA), R. Crofts
(Consultant), Ahmed Maruf (Agricultural Inputs Marketing Services - AIMS),



- 2 -
Mamo Desta (Ethiopian Grain Corporation - EGC), Aklu Girgire (Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank - AIDB), and R. Brereton (Advisor to the
Ethiopian Grain Agency - EGA). This appraisal report has been based on the
findings of the first appraisal mission, the documents provided by the working
group and the Ethiopian Government's detailed comments on these documents which
were communicated to the Bank in September 1975 and discussed in February 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ethiopia, with a total land area of about 1.2 million km2 lies
in the northeastern horn of Africa just north of the Equator. The central
part of the country is mostly high plateau, 1,500 to 3,000 meters above sea
level and dissected by gorges and broad valleys; this plateau is surrounded
by extensive lowlands, most of which are inhabited only by nomadic pastoral-
ists. The country may be divided into six basic ecological regions which
vary considerably with regard to topography, climate, soils, natural vegeta-
tion and agricultural potential. While no detailed land use data are avail-
able, it is estimated that about 50% of the land is Permanent pasture, 10%
is cultivated, 20% is barren desert or swamps, 10% rivers and lakes and 10%
forests. The country's extremely rugged terrain is a serious obstacle to
internal transportation, communication and economic development.
2.02      The total population, estimated at 28 million in 1975, is growing
at an annual rate of about 2.5%. Total gross National Product (GNP) was esti-
mated at US$2.8 billion in 1975.  About 90% of the people live in rural areas,
and overall per capita income is estimated at US$100.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      The agricultural sector is characterised by wide climatic and
ecological diversity which allows a large variety of crops to be grown. The
Ethiopian peasant farmer possesses a high level of traditional agricultural
skill, but lacks an efficient marketing system, access roads, credit, exten-
sion and veterinary services and improved seeds, as well as fertilizer and
other farm inputs. Although 8 of every 10 Ethiopians derive the main part
of their income from farming, agriculture contributed only about 50% of GNP
in 1974.  Average total annual family output (at farm prices) is about
Birr 600 (USS300), and three quarters of this represents subsistence consump-
tion. The total value of agricultural output in 1974 was about Birr 2.8
million; cereals, coffee, and other crops accounted for 80% and livestock
and livestock products for the remaining 20%.



-3-
C. Land Reform
2.04      Under the land reform decree of March 4, 1975, all rural land was
nationalized and user rights for a farm family were limited to 10 ha. Most
commercial farms were taken over by Government, some were settled by small-
holders, but the majority are at least temporarily being cultivated as State
farms (100,000 ha during the 1975 season). To implement the reform and promote
future development, farmers are being organized into peasant associations each
with about 100-200 farming family members. About 21,000 such associations
have been formed. Tenancy, which was common in the southern part of the
country, has basically been abolished during the first phase of the reform.
Credit for oxen and tractor plowing is being provided to ex-tenants and to
peasant farmers settled on previous commercial farms.
D. Production, Consumption and Trade in Cereals,
Oilseeds and Pulses (Annex 1)
2.05      In the past, Ethiopia has in a normal crop year produced some
4.5 million MT of grains, oilseeds and pulses giving rise to a small cereal
deficit of the order 25,000 MT 1/ and a surplus of over 200,000 MT of oilseeds
and pulses which have constituted an important export. Following land reform,
on-farm per capita consumption is expected to increase 2/ and, with other per
capita consumption remaining unchanged, total consumption of grain, oilseeds
and pulses would grow by 3.8% per annum. Despite efforts being made to
counter the disruptive effects of land reform, some immediate drop in total
production appears likely, 3/ but thereafter, it should be possible to accel-
erate development and achieve a 5% growth rate in production. On these
assumptions, and under normal weather conditions, grain import requirements
are estimated to amount to about 100,000 MT per annum during the next few
years until Ethiopia would regain self-sufficiency in the mid 1980s (Annex 7).
This import level assumes a shift from the production of pulses and oilcrops
for export to domestic food production and exports would not regain their
previous level until 1982.
2.06      Total off-farm consumption and exports of grain, oilseeds and pulses
was estimated to be about 1.5 million MT in 1974/75 and this volume is expected
to increase to 1.8 million MT by 1980/81. Estimates of urban consumption and
1/   Covered by imports, principally of wheat and wheat flour.
2/ Due to the income redistribution effects of land reform favoring ex-
tenants.
3/   Favorable weather appears at least partly to have disguised this dis-
ruption.



-4-
exports have been aggregated and these in-crease from 0.75 million MT in 1974/75
to 1.1 million MT in 1980/81; the balance of the total off-farm consumption
being handled at local levels without entering the wholesale trade (Annex 8,
Table 1). In 1974/75 640,000 MT or almost 90% of all wholesale trade was
handled by private merchants. In the past, grain imports 1/ have been
procured almost entirely by the Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC) while the
private sector has handled the export of pulses and oilseeds. As a result of
the land reform, large commercial farms handling their own marketing have
been replaced by State Farms, marketing their output mainly through public
channels.
2.07      Despite market fragmentation, a major influence in price formation
has been exerted by the terminal market at Addis Ababa (and to a lesser extent
that at Asmara) where the operations of the larger wholesale stockists are
concentrated. In the absence of reliable crop forecasts, the subjective pro-
duction estimates of these wholesalers have been the crucial market force,
especially during and immediately after harvest, since they command the facil-
ities (storage and finance) for seasonal stockholding. The costs of marketing
are high due to bad roads, double transport (because of lack of storage and
capital in rural areas), numerous title transfers in the marketing chain, high
storage losses, lack of grading with accompanying high transport costs for im-
purities and inefficient crop forecasting and thus high risks and margins in
seasonal storage.  The producer is generally in a weak bargaining position
because of his need to sell immediately after harvest to meet tax and debt
payments, lack of on-farm storage, lack of relevant price information, un-
controlled weights and measures, limited competition between buyers and the
considerable effort required to bring produce to market so that the producer
frequently sells even if the price is unduly low. There are considerable
price variations from one year to another which discourage the farmer from
making large cash outlays for inputs.
2.08      The Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) was originally established in 1950 as
the Ethiopian Grain Board (EGH) with wide power to regulate and improve the dom-
estic and export trade in grains, pulses and oilseeds. Until its reorganization
in 1971, EGA's operations were minimal, but since then it has instituted measures
for export licensing and quality control and set up an overseas market intelligence
unit.  In 1960, the Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC) was established as a public
corporation with the aim of promoting domestic market price stability. With a
storage capacity of 33,0000 MT (of which 29,000 MT in silos), RGC handled a series
of grain import operations but not until the establishment of State Farms in 1975
did it make any significant domestic market purchases. Previously EGC's average
share of the total wholesale trade was less than 5% and this was insufficient
1I/ Donated supplies of grain and foodstuffs to alleviate famine conditions
in Wollo and Tigre provinces were imported during 1974/75 by the Relief
and Rehabilitation Commission but not considered as commercial imports.



- 5 -
to exert any significant influence on prices. EGC did not achieve its aims
because of Government's failure to define its priorities and to provide it
with both sufficient fixed capital and access to bank credit for trading
capital, absence of any channel for direct purchase from peasant producers
and poor management, as exemplified by bad timing of imports, lack of control
over credit sales and failure to operate a proper cost accounting system.
However, EGC was able to maintain reasonably good warehousing standards
and to avoid undue physical losses on the volumes of grain handled.
E. The Package Programs
2.09      The main attack on the problems of improving peasant farming is
through a series of comprehensive projects, such as Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit (CADU), Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU), Ada
District Development Unit (ADDU) and Southern Region Agricultural Development
Project (SORADEP) and the nationwide Minimum Package Program (MPP) all operat-
ing under the auspices of the Extension and Co-Operative Development Department
(ECODD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement. These programs focus
on grain production and the encouragement of the use of fertilizers and im-
proved seeds through the coordination of extension, input supply and credit.
The potential impact of these programs is illustrated by the projected MPP
growth from about 350 operational extension areas with 150,000 participating
farmers in 1976 to 575 extension areas with 400,000 participating farmers,
(10% of all farm families) in 1980. 1/ Additional farmers would benefit from
the comprehensive schemes.
2.10      Each MPP extension area has a marketing center for input distribution
where sales are made on cash or credit terms and which will eventually become
a primary cooperative society. Input procurement and distribution to marketing
centers/cooperative societies was handled by the Agriculture Input Market-
ing Service (AIMS) 2/ a subsidiary of the Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (AIDB) which finances credit sales. Fertilizer consumption has
increased rapidly during the last few years to a present level of 56,000 MT
and is projected at 125,000 MT by 1980/81. Comprehensive projects offers
farmers an alternative produce marketing channel in competition with private
trade, and the MPP has reached the stage where similar produce marketing
facilities are needed to support the development effort by ensuring incentives
to fertilizer use.
III. MARKETING AND PRICE POLICIES
A. General Policy
3.01      An outline of Government policy and the respective roles of the
public and private sectors in wholesale and retail trade was given in the
"Declaration on Economic Policy of Socialist Ethiopia" published on February 7,
1975, which stated that:
1/   This program is now being revised and the numbers involved could be higher.
2/   The functions of AIMS have now been taken over by AMC.



-6 -
"The Government may, where necessary, engage in wholesale and
retail business in order to stabilize prices particularly of
basic consumption items, and thereby protect the interests
of the masses. Strict control will also be exercised on the
private sector with regard to supplv, prices and distribution
of goods."
In the grain marketing field, the Government's specific aims are to assure
stable producer and consumer prices, to maintain adequate producer incentives,
to reduce marketing margins through greater efficiency and reduced risks and
profits and to assure an adequate food supply in all parts of the country.
These aims might have been achieved through the establishment of a statutory
marketing board with monopoly purchasing powers operating on a fixed buying
price system, but this is not considered feasible under Ethiopian conditions
because of the fragmentation of the market and the extent of the management
and financial resources such an organization would require. Instead the
Government has established an Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) to
handle the output of the State Farms, grain imports, and the growing
production from MPP areas, so that AMC would be responsible for some 45% of
total wholesale trade of grain, oilseeds and pulses by 1980/81 and be in a
position to exercise a major influence on prices. In addition, the Ethiopian
Grain Board has been empowered to regulate the domestic market, to improve
marketing intelligence services and to promote market infrastructure improve-
ments. The respective roles of AMC, the private trade and cooperatives during
the Project period are outlined below.
B. New Structure of Grain Marketing (Annex 3)
Produce Buying
3.02      The role of private traders operating in local markets and between
producers and wholesalers would remain basically unchanged under the new
marketing structure, but, in order to improve trading efficiency, EGA whas been
given extended powers and resources to assist local authorities to strengthen
their supervision of marketing practices and standards and to promote market
infrastructure improvements.
3.03      At the same time, within an expanding number of MPP areas AMC
would provide an alternative channel. to compete with private trade. Marketing
centers established by ECODD in these areas would act as agents of ANC for
the purchase of grain, oilseeds and pulses. Such purchases are likely to
be mainly of the incremental production in these areas. As these centers
become primary cooperative societies they would be free to market their pro-
duce either through AMC or private channels. The size of each society would
be determined by its viability and would generally cover a number of peasant
associations formed as part of the land reform measures. Now that ECODD is
responsible for all facets of cooperative development (including promotion,
registration, supervision, audit and assistance), the orderly conversion of



Marketing Centers to cooperatives should be facilitated. In addition, AMC
would have responsibility for marketing the State Farm output of grain,
oilseeds and pulses, totalling some 50,000-100,000 MT per annum during the
Project period.
Wholesale Trade
3.04      Through procurement from ECODD marketing centers/cooperative societies
and State Farms and its responsibility for grain imports (para. 3.09), AMC
would have a sufficiently large share (increasing from 26% to 45%) of whole-
sale trade in cereals, oilseeds and pulses, to allow it to exercise a con-
trolling influence over basic price levels and assure year to year price
stability. With its widespread network of branch offices AMC would also be
in a position to provide an improved distribution of food supplies by
interregional transfers, and, with increased facilities for seasonal storage,
AMC would aim at reducing seasonal price variations.
3.05      In order that the activities of private wholesalers comply with
national objectives (para. 3.01), strict control over wholesale trade would
be introduced, requiring major wholesalers to be licensed by EGB under condi-
tions covering storage standards and hygiene, quality control, and maintenance
of stock registers. It was agreed at negotiations that the Borrower would,
in accordance with its credit policies, ensure the availability of credit
adequate to facilitate the wholesale trading of grain.
3.06      Through the nationalization of unused or leased warehouses during
the second half of 1975 and through the elimination of substandard storage
as a result of the proposed licensing system the capacity of private trade
would be reduced. In 1975-76 the private sector handled just over 500,000 MT
and this is projected to rise to 610,000 MT by 1980/81.
3.07      Secondary cooperative unions would be established gradually at the
awraJa (district) level, but, during the Prolect period, these unions are not
expected to handle grain marketing. Major exceptions would be the existing
marketing organizations within CADU and WADU which would act as a link between
AMC and the primary cooperative societies/marketing centers in these projects.
Retail Trade
3.08      Retail trade would remain largely in private hands subject to the
overall control and support from EGA noted above with respect to produce
buying (para. 3.02). However, while AMC is primarily a wholesale organization,
it is empowered to establish retail outlets where circumstances warrant, for
example in locations where private retail capacity is insufficient.
Import and Export
3.09      AMC is solelv responsible for arranging imports of grain to ensure
adequate national food supplies. Government has set up an Export-Import Cor-
poration mainly to handle Government-to-Government trade deals and to ensure



imported oupplies of essential manufactured goods. For its grain imports,
AMC may utilize the services of this Corporation on an agency basis for specific
shipping and forwarding operations. As to exports of oilseeds and pulses, AMC
would be free to export these itself or sell them to private exporters or to
the Export-Import Corporation.
C. Inputs Distribution (Annex 2)
3.10      To facilitate integration with ECODD's agricultural development
program and to better utilize its own managerial, storage and transport re-
sources, AMC is also responsible for the import, domestic procurement and
distribution of farm inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, seed and minor
implements) to State Farms and ECODD marketing centers/cooperative societies.
D. Price Policy (Annex 4)
3.11      It is likely that, even under normal growing conditions, Ethiopia
will have to import grain during the next few years (para. 2.05). Since world
market prices are forecast to remain considerably above the present domestic
price level, there will be an upward pressure on domestic prices. However,
in a very good year, a temporary domestic surplus may develop and the resultant
fall in prices, if unchecked, could destroy producer incentive to use recom-
mended yield increasing inputs on which the expansion of grain output so
largely depends. The Government intends to provide farmers with sufficient
incentives to improve farming techniques and at the same time to protect
consumers from undue hardship by giving AMC the responsibility of conducting
its operations so as to maintain grain prices within agreed limits. Govern-
ment would reimburse AMC for losses incurred in any import, export and/or
buffer stocking operations that it may undertake to maintain these limits,
but for its normal buying and selling operations AMC would be free to fix
its day-to-day prices at any point within these limits so as to be able to
compete with private traders. Government has rejected the alternative system
of rigid publicly announced "floor" and "ceiling" prices because of enforce-
ment difficulties under the mixed public/private marketing structure and
because, until crop forecasting and market intelligence have been greatly
improved, any system will need to be flexible and price limits may well have
to be adjusted within a season if forecasts on which they were based prove
wrong.
3.12      The lower price limit would be set at a level sufficiently high to
give farmers adequate production incentives, taking into account inter alia,
the costs of inputs, and the costs of transporting produce from farmers to
marketing centres. If imports are needed to meet a short fall in domestic
supplies, then without intervention the import parity price would be the
automatic upper price limit. For wheat, this would imply that domestic prices
would be allowed to rise some Birr 20 per quintal, or to nearly double their
present domestic level, before imported supplies could come in. If, as seems



- 9 -
most probable, Government wishes to protect consumers from the effects of
a rise of this magnitude, then it would need to fix the upper limit at a
level below the import parity and be prepared to bear the difference as a
consumer subsidy. Budgetary and foreign exchange considerations would be
paramount in the fixing of actual upper limits. A spread of at least
Birr 5.00 is considered essential to provide the necessary market flexi-
bility since within this spread both AMC and private traders would be free
to adjust to minor demand/supply changes. Within the price limits fixed by
Government, AMC would establish (a) its prices for different grades, (b)
price ranges for different branches, (c) producer prices in different areas,
and (d) seasonal price variations after calculating its costs for these oper-
ations (including depreciation and interest on permanent capital; Annex 4).
3.13      EGA-with its market intelligence service strengthened under the
Project would be responsible for conducting an annual review which would take
into account all relevant factors including production and consumption fore-
casts, import needs, world market price developments and likely subsidy costs,
and the budgetary situation, on which Government would decide for the follow-
ing season the level of price limits and fertilizer prices, together with
the subsidies involved. At negotiations, assurances were received that
minimum grain prices would be set at a level sufficiently high to give
farmers adequate price incentives, that AMC would be free to fix its day-
to-day wholesale prices within the ranges established by Government on the
recommendation of EGA and that Government would reimburse AMC losses incurred
in imports of grain and fertilizer, and in buffer stocking operations carried
out in support of the price limits. (Annex 4). Assurances were also received
that the Borrower would consult with IDA from time to time, on the adequacy
of the price system in respect of farmer incentives.
Pricing of Oilcrops and Pulses
3.14      Ethiopia is normally an exporter of pulses and oilseeds (Annex 1),
although the volume is expected to decrease temporarily after land reform
(para. 2.05). AMC would establish its wholesale prices in Addis Ababa
and other major centers equal to export parity prices and would derive its
regional and producer prices in relation to these export prices. Government
is presently undertaking a study of price stabilization for export crops.
Pricing of Tnputs
3.15      Fertilizer prices to farmers would depend on the level at which the
lower price limits are fixed (para. 3.13), on world market prices and on the
amount of subsidy required to maintain producer incentives. Government has
reintroduced variable prices for fertilizers with different nutritional
content and some geographical price differential for major zones is being
considered.



- 10 -
E. The Institutional Framework
Introduction
3.16      The main organizations directly concerned with the implementation
of the marketing and price policies set out above, namely AMC, EGA and the
Crop Information Unit (CIU) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement
would be supported under the Project; their functions are examined below.
In addition, a number of other institutions would play important supporting
roles, notably (a) ECODD which in MPP areas administers the Marketing Centers
responsible for the sale of inputs to and the purchase of grain from peasant
farmers and will be responsible for their eventual conversion into cooperative
societies; (b) the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) which
will continue financing saEes of inputs to farmers and cooperative societies;
(c) the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement which controls the operations
of the State Farms; and (d) the commercial banks, also now nationalized, which
would be the main source of the working capital for AMC's trading operations.
(a) The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
3.17      AMC has been established in place of the Ethiopian Grain Corpora-
tion (EGC) and the Agricultural Input Marketing Services (AIMS). AMC would be
given the necessary additional resources to enable it to purchase grain
through ECODD marketing centres, to market the output of State Farms, to
arrange necessary grain imports, to undertake bufferstocking operations when
justified, to operate retail outlets where necessary and to distribute inputs,
mainly fertilizer and seed. These main activities are described in more
detail below.
Buying through ECODD Marketing Centers/Cooperatives (Annex 5)
3.18      AMC purchases through the ECODD network are projected to increase
from 15,000 MT 1975/76 to some 160,000 MT in 1980/81. AMC would reimburse
ECODD's costs at the rate of Birr 25 per MT handled to provide full cost
coverage at a volume of 800 MT (produce and inputs) per Marketing Center. The
estimates of total wholesale requirements on the one hand and the estimates of
private grain trading capacity and AMC procurement from ECODD, State Farms and
from abroad on the other requires AMC to purchase directly from producers and
traders a quantity of grain rising from 80,000 MT in 1975/76 to 140,000 MT in
1980/81 (Annex 8, Table 2).
Buying from State Farms
3.19      Following land reform, Government has taken over the large commer-
cial farms. In some cases settlement by landless peasants has taken place,
but many units are now being run as State Farms under the direction of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement. Small-scale settlement on such farms



- 11 -
has reduced the cultivated area but through the opening of state farms in new
areas the level of production would increase over the Project period. Assur-
ances were received during negotiations that produce from State Farms would
be marketed through AMC under normal circumstances (Annex 4). 1/
Import and Export of Produce (Annex 7)
3.20      To make good estimated production deficits, AMC is expected to
import some 100,000 MT of grain annually throughout the Project period (para.
2.05). Following the expected switch to domestic food production, AMC's
exports of oilseeds and pulses would initially be small. Any special invest-
ment to increase Ethiopia's import capabilities (e.g. installing bulk handling
and transport facilities) would not be justified because of the expected tem-
porary and spasmodic character of the import volume.
Domestic Sales
3.21      Out of the estimated 500,000 MT to be handled by AMC in 1980/81,
about 50,000 MT is expected to be exported leaving 450,000 MT to be sold
on the domestic market. Sales to the mills would have risen to 210,000 MT,
while other wholesale sales would amount to 240,000 MT. Retail sales would be
confined to cases where retail margins were excessive or the retail trading
capacity was insufficient. At negotiations, assurances were received that
the nationalized mills would procure their grain requirement from AMC at its
prevailing wholesale prices to the extent that AMC is able to supply (Annex
4).
Security Reserves (Annex 7)
3.22      AMC would construct 50,000 MT of storage which, during the Project
period, could be brought into use for limited buffer stocking operations, i.e.
the surplus arising from an exceptionally good harvest could be carried over
for sale in the next year thus reducing the need for more expensive imports.
Eventually, when there is a return to self-sufficiency, these stores would be
used to maintain security reserves that would only be utilized under Govern-
ment authority to meet emergency conditions such as famine and drought. The
provision of these stores follows the recommendations of an FAO mission in
which the Bank cooperated. 2/
1/   State Farms would use channels other than AMC in the event that the
latter were unable to handle part of the State Farm output.
2/   A policy and action plan for strengthening national food security in
Ethiopia: ASC/FSP/ETH November 1974.



- 12 -
Input Supply (Annex 2)
3.23      AVC would procure and distribute fertilizers, seeds, pesticides and
implements (for hand and ox cultivation) to ECODD marketing centers and State
Farms. Fertilizers and pesticides would be procured from abroad while seed
and implements would be bought mainly from domestic sources. By 1980/81, AMC
would distribute some 140,000 MT of inputs, of which fertilizer would account
for some 125,000 MT. Ultimately, AIDB would make credit available to coopera-
tive societies to procure inputs from AMC. But, under present conditions
where cooperative societies are not yet formed, ECODD must continue to provide
the link between the farmers and AIDB. So as to facilitate the eventual
transition to a cooperative system, ECODD would serve as AIDB's agent in
extending loans to farmers and/or pre-cooperative groups of farmers. Since
this credit would be in kind, AIDB (using ECODD as its agent) would buy the
inputs from AMC at the marketing centers.
(b) The Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) (Annex 12)
3.24      Because the regulation of agricultural trade falls within the
ambit of both the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement and the Ministry of
Commerce and Tourism, EGA is established as a separate agency on which both
Ministries as well as other interests are represented. Although its activi-
ties were formerly confined to the regulation of export trade, Government
has reorganized and strengthened EGA to increase regulation and supervision
of domestic marketing and to promote improvements. EGA would, through the
licensing of wholesale traders in the domestic trade, require them to maintain
minimum standards of storage hygiene, keep standard records and make regular
returns of their operations and stock position. At lower stages in the
marketing chain EGA would encourage and supervise the establishment of a
licensing system by local authorities and operate a Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund (MIIF) to provide matching loans to assist financing of
basic market improvements, such as the provision of public weighing facili-
ties, water supplies and access roads, stores for renting, etc. at major
markets (Annex 9).
3.25      EGA's existing overseas market intelligence service would be expanded
to make EGA the focal point for data collection, analysis and research in the
marketing field, so that it would provide both Government and AMC with improved
bases for decisions on pricing, imports, buffer-stocking and the size and loca-
tion of new storage facilities (Annex 10).
(c) Crop Information Unit (Annex 11)
3.26      An essential element in determining marketing and price policies is
a reliable system of crop forecasting. Because of physical difficulties and
administrative weakness, crop forecasting in Ethiopia is a matter of guesswork
and subjective opinion rather than an objective evaluation. Government intends
to initiate systematizing and coordinating the present efforts in this field
and has created a Crop Information Unit (CIU) within MOA. CIU would train
and utilize the staff of ECODD and other organizations to widen the scope and



- 13 -
regularity of crop reporting and collate these reports with other relevant
data (e.g. meteorological information) so as to produce timely reports for
EGA's reviews on which Government decisions and AMC operations would be based.
These reports should also serve as an early warning system that would enable
the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission to investigate further any indication
of incipient crop failure in particular areas.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over four years (1977/78-1980/81) support the
establishment of an orderly grain marketing and input distribution system in
Ethiopia and would provide (a) for the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(AMC), incremental storage facilities for produce inputs and bufferstocks,
a headquarters building, vehicles and equipment, higher level staff and in-
cremental permanent trading capital; (b) for the Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA)
vehicles and equipment, operating costs for the new Internal Marketing and
Market Intelligence Departments for four years and a fund to support improve-
ments to local market places; and (c) for the new Crop Information Unit
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement vehicles and equipment,
operating cost for four years and consulting services to plan for the use
of remote sensing in crop forecasting.
B. Detailed Description
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (Annex 8)
4.02      The Project would provide for the construction of storage capacity
for some 350,000 MT, to enable AMC to handle the expected increase in its
trading volume over the Project period. Of this incremental storage, about
250,000 MT would be for produce, and 50,000 MT each for input storage and
security reserves. In the case of produce storage the requirements have been
calculated on the basis of 75% of volume bought, to allow for the concentra-
tion of AMC purchases into a four-month period and the need for separation
of varieties and grades.
4.03      The volume of inputs to be handled would increase from 60,000 MT
in 1976/77 to 140,000 MT in 1980/81. Some of the requirements would be
delivered direct to State Farms and ECODD marketing centers reducing the AMC
peak inventory to 50% or, some 70,000 MT in 1980/81. The storage require-
ments have been reduced by the transfer from AIMS to AMC of an existing 19,000
MT store. The balance of 51,000 MT would be covered by the construction of
new storage for input distribution since the peak utilization periods for



- 14 -
both grain and inputs coincide. The Project would also finance a headquarters
building for AMC in Addis Ababa. To facilitate communications, it has been
decided to house ECODD in the same building and share the costs of construction.
4.04      All warehouses would be for sack storage with a raised floor to deter
rodents, and would be of a standard design (Annex 16). A four-year construction
program, detailing the size, location and phasing of warehouse construction
over the Project period has been agreed between IDA and the Borrower.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that construction would be carried
out pursuant to this program, provided that, in the event of a variation
of greater than 25% in the aggregate annual volume of construction, or any
other substantial deviation from the program planned by AMC for any year, the
following year's construction program would be established by agreement
between the Government and IDA.
4.05      The Project would finance 4 weighbridges, 10 mechanical cleaners,
-16 conveyor belts, 59 platform scales, 5,1 sack carriers and other miscella-
neous equipment (Annex 8, Tabl ,6) in connection with the warehouses and
provide 11 4-wheel drive, 21 standard vehicles, 13 motorcycles and office
equipment for the AMC headquarters and branch offices.  About 40 trucks have
been purchased by AMC since its establishment, and the Project would provide
40 additional trucks to AMC. This would allow AMC to handle about 40% of
its peak transport requirements; the balance would be met by the private
sector or by the National Transport Corporation (NATRACO). A mobile workshop
would be provided to supplement existing private facilities.
4.06      Inventories of inputs and produce would vary during the year.  The
value of peak inventories would reach Birr 135 million in 1980/81. The
Ethiopian banking system would only be able to provide about 75% of these
trading capital requirements so that th6 remainder, Birr 30 million, should
be provided to AMC in the form of permanent trading capital. About Birr 13
million has been transferred from EGC and AIMS and the incremental require-
ments of Birr 17 million would be provided by the Project.
4.07      The Project would finance 7 key Management staff (5 Ethiopian and 2
expatriate) who have been appointed (Birr 3 million), and provide for specialist
assistance in training and systems planning (Birr 400,000).
Ethiopian Grain Agency (Annex 12)
4.08      The Project would provide for four vehicles and office equipment
for the new Internal Marketing and Marketing Intelligence Departments to
be established in EGA. It would also finance salaries of Ethiopian staff I/
1/ Of which 15 high-level staff at the end of the Project period.



- 15 -
(Birr 873,000) and other operating costs (Birr 460,000) such as travel, office
supplies, fuel, utilities. Funds would be provided for training of Ethiopian
staff (Birr 424,000) and for five specialist staff who would be internationally
recruited.
4.09      The Project would include provision for a Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund (MIIF) of Birr 1.0 million to be administered by EGA for
the improvement of grain market facilities, particularly in the provinces.
EGA's main task would be to draw up a plan for utilizing the fund and to deter-
mine priorities with reference to such factors as present and likely future
market throughputs, present condition of market facilities, and other con-
siderations, such as town plan implementation. On the basis of this
review, proposals for selected markets would be submitted to EGA's Board.
During negotiations assurances were received that any disbursement from the
fund would be matched by at least an equal amount from the local authority
concerned.
Crop Information Unit (CIU) (Annex 11)
4.10      The Project would provide two vehicles and office equipment for the
new CIU together with funds for salaries of Ethiopian staff (Birr 78,000) and
other operating costs including training and payment of part-time crop re-
porters (Birr 634,000). In addition to two high level Ethiopian staff the
Project would also provide for international recruitment of the head of
the unit during the first three years (Birr 300,000) and for a study of
the use of satellite images in crop forecasting (Birr 150,000).
C. Project Costs (Annexes 8, 11, and 12)
4.11      Total cost of the Project is estimated at Birr 71.7 million
(US$34.6 million) with a foreign exchange component of Birr 25.7 million
(US$12.4 million) or 36%. A breakdown is presented below:



- 16 -
Foreign
Birr million               US$ million        Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    %
AMC
A. Investment Costs
Storage                  19.21    4.80   24.01    9.28    2.32   11.60    20
Headquarters building   0.45    0.20    0.65    0.21    0.10    0.31    30
Trucks, vehicles and
equipment              1.28    3.85    5.13    0.62    1.86    2.48    75
Subtotal           20.94    8.85   29.79   10.11    4.28   14.39    30
B. Incremental Permanent
Trading Capital          10.20    6.80   17.00    4.92    3.29    8.21    40
C. Staffing and Technical
Assistance                0.85    2.55    3.40    0.41    1.23    1.64    75
Total              31.99   18.20   50.19   15.44    8.80   24.24    36
EGA
A.  Vehicle and equipment    0.06    0.11    0.17    0.03    0.05    0.08    65
B.  Operating costs            1.18    0.15    1.33    0.58    0.07    0.65    11
C.  Technical assistance       0.67    1.65    2.32    0.32    0.80    1.12    71
D.  Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund          0.60    0.40    1.00    0.29    0.19    0.48    40
Total               2.51    2.31    4.82    1.22    1.11    2.33    48
MOA (CIU)
A. Vehicles and equipment   0.02    0.04    0.06    0.01    0.02    0.03    67
B.  Operating Costs            0.64    0.07    0.71    0.31    0.03    0.34    10
C.  Technical Assistance       0.11    0.34    0.45    0.05    0.17    0.22    76
Total               0.75    0.45    1.22    0.37    0.22    0.59    37
Base Costs         35.27   20.96   56.23   17.03   10.13   27.16
Physical Contingencies         2.30    0.93    3.23    1.11    0.45    1.56    29
Price Contingencies            8.41    3.79   12.20    4.07    1.83    5.90    31
GRAND TOTAL including
Contingencies          45.98   25.68   71.66   22.21   12.41   34.62    36
Costs are estimated at November 1976 prices.  Physical contingencies at a
rate of 10% have been included for civil works, equipment and operating costs.



- 17 -
Price contingencies have been included on both local and foreign costs at the
following annual rates: civil works 13% in 1976, 12% in 1977-79 and 10X there-
after; trucks, vehicles and equipment 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79 and 7% there-
after; operating costs and technical assistance 10% throughout. Taxes included
in Project costs amount to Birr 5.42 million (US$2.62 million).
4.12      In addition to the incremental permanent trading capital included
in Project costs, an assurance was received at negotiations that Government
would assure AMC sufficient overdraft facilities with the commercial banks.
Peak loan requirements for trading capital are expected to reach Birr 105
million in 1980/81.
D. Financing
4.13      Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:
US$ Million           Percentage
IDA                       24.00                75
Government                 8.00                25
Subtotal         32.00               100
Taxes                      2.62
Total            34.62
The proposed IDA credit of US$24 million would be on standard terms to Govern-
ment. This would cover 100% of the total foreign exchange costs of about
US$12 million together with US$12 million of local costs or about 69% of
total Project costs including duties. The balance (US$10.62 million) would
be contributed by Government but partially offset by customs duties (US$2.62
million). The IDA and Government contributions would be made available to
AMC as permanent non-redeemable capital. AMC's authorized capital would be
not less than Birr 100 million and over the Project period, its issued
capital would be expected to increase as indicated in Annex 8, Table 15
and summarized below:
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
-------------- (Birr million) -------------
AMC's permanent non-
redeemable issued
capital               25.30    52.88    63.21    74.50    84.93



- 18 -
To meet EGA and MOA needs, funds would be channeled through the Ministry of
Finance as grants. In view of the risks and uncertainties (para. 7.02) the
AMC legislation provides that AMC would set aside 10% of its profits after
taxes and depreciation allowance in a reserve fund until this fund has reached
a level of 25% of the issued non-redeemable capital and that any loss sustained
by the Corporation in commercial operations would be written off by transfers
from the reserve fund. EGA would onlend the MIIF funds at 10% interest with
10 years amortization without grace period.
4.14      An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Borrower would
ensure effective co-ordination and co-operation among all the agencies involved in
the implementation of the Project. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
that Government had extended to AMC additional permanent trading capital of not
less than Birr 4.25 million. EGA is presently financed by a special cess on
exports of oilseeds and pulses. Since the estimated decrease in export volume,
and the expansion of EGA's operations under the Project, would make this method
of financing insufficient, the EGA legislation provides for EGA to receive
funds from the Government budget to cover its revenue deficits.
E. Procurement
4.15      Contracts for vehicles, equipment and civil works would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with World
Bank guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever practicable, and a 7-1/2
percent preference would be allowed for domestic civil works contractors.
In the case of civil works where international competitive bidding is not
practicable for reasons such as the small size or scattered location of some
warehouses, contracts not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertized locally in accordance with
Government procedures satisfactory to the Association; the aggregate total
of such contracts during the Project period would not exceed US$2 million
equivalent including contingencies. The local construction industry has
experience in this type of work and is considered at present to have suffi-
cient capacity to meet Project needs. Orders of less than USS80,000 equiva-
lent for certain vehicles and equipment would also be excluded from interna-
tional competitive bidding and would be awarded on the basis of similar local
competitive bidding procedures; such orders would not exceed a total of
US$500,000 equivalent including contingencies. AMC purchases of produce to
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit would be made from local suppliers
in accordance with current AMC procurement procedures in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
F. Disbursement
4.16      The Credit would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of the value of AMC's local purchases of produce;
(b) 100% of foreign cost of technical assistance and consulting
services; and



- 19 -
(c) 100% of foreign and 75% of local cost for vehicles and
equipment;
(d) 75% of total cost for operating costs, civil works and
market infrastructure improvement.
The amount of $6.15 million to be disbursed under (a) represents 75% of the
estimated incremental permanent trading capital requirements of AMC over the
Project period. 1/ All disbursements would be fully documented. Operating
costs for EGA and MOA would be reimbursed against appropriate certificates of
expenditure, approved by the General Manager for EGA and by the Head of CIU
for MOA, respectively. The documentation to support such disbursements would
be retained by EGA or MOA and would be available for inspection by IDA staff
during the course of a supervision mission. So that AMC can construct the
storage necessary before the opening of the 1977-78 marketing season, the
Project would provide up to US$1.5 million in retro-active financing to cover
Project expenditures for storage design and construction of warehouses after
November 1st, 1976. Estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 15. Any
funds remaining in the Credit account at the end of the Project would be re-
allocated with the approval of the Association for the continuing development
of grain marketing.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.17      To provide a basis for its pricing decisions, evaluation of the
comparative efficiency of the public marketing effort and determination of
subsidy elements, AMC would establish a comprehensive cost accounting system
which would allow cost identification in different operations such as produce
buying, seasonal storage, retailing, buffer stocking, distribution of inputs
and distinguish different types of produce and inputs. Each AMC branch would
be treated as an individual cost center in budgeting and accounting. EGA
and MOA would maintain separate Project accounts. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that all accounts would be audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by the Auditor-General
or any other independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and that AMC,
EGA and the CIU would submit their annual accounts, together with the auditor's
reports, to the Association within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) (Annex 8)
5.01      As the main instrument for the implementation of the Government's
marketing and price policy, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
has been established as a public authority with necessary powers to carry
out the functions described in para 3.17-3.23 above and to supersede the
Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC) and the Agricultural Inputs and Marketing
Services (AIMS).
1/   The remaining 25% of incremental permanent trading capital would be
provided to AMC by the Borrower as a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit.



- 20 -
5.02      The Agricultural Marketing Corporation is designed to function as
an autonomous public enterprise having a separate corporate identify. The
Chairman of .he Board is the Minister of Agriculture and Settlement or his
representative, and other members are representatives of ECODD, EGA, the
Ministry of the Interior, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, and
the General Manager of AMC. The main duties of the Board are to:
(a) lay down policy guidelines;
(b) approve the budget, annual report and accounts;
(c) approve the Corporation's strategy at the opening
of each season, for the implementation of Government
decisions on prices, grain imports, bufferstocks,
exports of agricultural products, and input purchase
distribution;
(d) consider and approve management recommendations with
regard to monthly adjustment of the Corporation's
price structure;
(e) supervise the operation and activities of the Corporation.
5.03      The General Manager has been appointed by the Government, on the
recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Settlement and has full
responsibility for the Corporation's day-to-day operations, within the policy
framework laid down by the Board of Directors. AMC's functional organization
is shown in Chart 1 of Annex 8 and consists of four main departments, - a
commercial department controlling operations including branch activities,
a transport department handling AMC's own and hired transport, an accounts
and administration department and a technical department responsible for the
construction and maintenance of warehouses, and stock management. In addition,
there are legal, internal audit and planning and programming sections, the
latter including an internal performance evaluation unit responsible for
monitoring AMC's performance. 1/ Since there are no simple criteria against
which the performance of AMC could be judged, the work of this monitoring unit
is particularly important for management guidance. In addition, the General
Manager is to arrange consultations with representatives of consumers and
producers at branch level to review AMC's performance and expansion plans.
AMC operates through branch and sub-branch offices of which fifteen are opera-
tional as they have been taken over from EGC.
5.04      The specialist staff to be financed under the project fill the
following seven key posts:
1/   See also Annex 19.



- 21 -
(a) Deputy General Manager:
(b) Deputy Director of Commercial Department;
(c) Cost Accountant;
(d) Senior Accountant or Financial Controller:
(e) Chief Engineer;
(f) Head of Transport Department;
(g) Chief of Planning and Programming Section.
An assurance was received during negotiations that IDA would be consulted
prior to the appointment of successor staff to these posts.
5.05      AMC's total staff requirement would be about 40 high level and 140
middle level staff, most of whom would be required from the beginning of its
operations. Twenty high level and 30 middle level staff have been transferred
from existing organizations, mainly through the absorption of EGC and AIMS,
reducing the net requirement to 20 high level and 110 middle level staff
(Annex 8, Table 7). Some commercially experienced staff are available as
a result of the reduction in the activity of many foreign-owned businesses.
5.06      Since AMC would be operating as a commercial enterprise and would
need to have maximum flexibility in its personnel policies, all its staff
will be employed on contract terms.
B. Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) (Annex 12)
5.07      Under the Project, EGA would assume increased responsiblity for
domestic trade market regulation and improvement as well as market intelli-
gence and analysis. Legislation has recently been promulgated to give EGA
the powers necessary to implement Project proposals. Under this new legis-
lation, EGA would continue to be responsible to the Minister of Commerce
and Tourism, and its policv-making Board would be composed of representa-
tives of the Ministry of Commerce (Chairman), the Ministry of Agriculture
and Settlement and the National Bank, the Executive Chairman of AMC and
its own General Manager, to whom would be delegated the responsibility for
its day-to-day operations. Separate ad hoc committees representing con-
sumers, producers and the private trade would be designated and consulted
on major policy decisions.
5.08      Under the Project two new Departments would be established within
EGA's headquarters organization for Market Intelligence and Internal Marketing
(covering the licensing of private traders, supervision of local markets and
promotion of market improvements). This expansion of EGA's functions would



- 22 -
involve the creation of a total of 17 high level and 9 middle level posts. Five
high level posts are expected to be filled in the first instance by interna-
tionally recruited staff - the Director of the Internal Marketing Department
and Head of its Marketing Improvement Section (which would be responsible for
the administration of the Market Infrastructure Improvement Fund) and the
Director of the Market Intelligence Department and the Heads (2) of its Data
and Market Analysis Sections. One of the important functions of the Market
Intelligence Department would be to act as a monitoring unit for the Project.
C. Crop Information Unit (Annex 11)
5.09      The CIU has been established within the Planning and Programming
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement and will be staffed
with two high level posts, one of which would be filled by international re-
cruitment for the first three years.
VI. BENEFICIARIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Beneficiaries
6.01      The following major types of benefits would be realized as a result
of the Project:
(a) Increased Production - Farmer Incentives. The
Project originates from a concern that peasant
producers would lack sufficient incentives to
adopt the new techniques promoted through the
package programs without the assurance of fair
and stable prices. The importance of this has
been illustrated by CADU experience where a drop
in grain prices in 1972 resulted in two years
stagnation in the adoption of inputs. With the
forecast reductions in domestic supply, grain
prices would probably increase anyway, and
benefits attributable to the Project would thus
be limited to protection of producers' interests
in a good harvest year and firmer integration of
remote areas with the national marketing system
which should help improve producer prices.
(b) Increased Production - Reduction of Losses. The
elimination of 55,000 MT of substandard warehouses
through the new licensing system and the construction
of properly designed incremental storage facilities
would reduce storage losses. Market infrastructure



- 23 -
improvements through MIIF would have a similar though
initially small effect.
(c) Increased Production - Input Distribution. The distri-
bution of an expanding volume of farm inputs at the
right time and to the right place is an important
part of the agricultural development program. How-
ever, it is not possible to isolate the benefits
from these endeavors from the extension efforts under
the package programs.
(d) Income Redistribution. The Project aims to reduce
trading margins and to eliminate alleged irregula-
rities in weighing, grading and calculations. If
managed efficiently (see however para 7.02) AMC could
be expected to operate on lower margins deriving from
smaller storage losses, proper location of warehouses
(avoiding double transport), reduced risk margins
through stabilization and the planned scale of operations
(including input supply) which would reduce unit over-
heads. The EGA licensing system is designed to improve
the supervision of the private grain trade and similarly
to improve marketing practices. However, the lack of
firm data prevents any qualitative or quantitative
assessment of the Project's probable effects on merchants'
incomes.
(e) Consumer protection. The construction of storage in
the provinces and the provision of buffer stock
facilities would reduce the incidence of localized
food shortages. AMC's retailing capacity would be
used in areas where private trade margins appear
excessive and/or service deficient. More generally,
the fixing of upper limits to grain prices
(possibly combined with import subsidies) would give
further consumer protection. Here again benefits
cannot be quantified.
(f) Savings of Public Expenditures and Foreign Exchange from
Bufferstocking. A capacity would be created to carry over
stocks from good harvest years to normal or below normal
years when these stocks would be available to replace ex-
pensive imports.
(g) Incremental Marketing. The Project would provide
facilities for the forecast increase in wholesale
trade. These incremental services are valued at
the estimated present average margins in the pri-
vate trade. 1/
l/ As noted above (d) no data are available on profits in private trade.



- 24 -
6.02      Although no precise distinction can be drawn between consumers and
producers of marketed grain 1/ the distribution of the above benefits might
be as follows:
(a) Producers. Improvement of producer incentives
(para 6.01 (a)) and expanded input distribution
(para 6.01 (c)) would significantly assist the
package programs (para. 2.10) to expand their
activities. A possible margin reduction between
fixed wholesale prices and producer prices
(para. 6.01 (d)) would benefit farmers.
(b) Consumers. Lower storage losses (para. 6.01 (b))
or increased marketing efficiency (para. 6.01 (d))
would reduce seasonal price adjustments and thus
avoid unduly high consumer prices for grain later
in the season.
(c) National Interest. The incremental wholesale
marketing (para. 6.01 (g)) and the buffer stocking
capacity (para. 6.01 (f)) would be of benefit to
the economy and in the latter case to the Government.
AMC Financial Results
6.03      An analysis of AMC's financial results is presented in Annex 8,
Tables 12-15. This is based on pricing principles outlined in Annex 4 and
the expected volume of transactions. Available information about the margins
in private trade indicates that AMC would be competitive when applying these
pricing principles. The results show that in 1980/81, AMC would cover all
costs including depreciation and obtain a return of about 10% on permanent
capital.
Government Cash Flow (Annex 17)
6.04      Apart from transfers from ex,isting institutions, Government outlays
would comprise Project costs for AMC, EGA and MOA. AMC would cover its opera-
ting costs and replacement investment from its trading margins, but EGA and
MOA activities would require additional annual budgetary support both during
and after the Project period. Possible grain and fertilizer import subsidies
do not fall within the scope of the Project. 2/ In addition to the IDA con-
tribution, inflows would consist of duties (Annex 18), and dividends on AMC
permanent capital. The Project requires Government investment of BIRR 16.2
1/   A producer may have to buy from the market in case of crop failure or
may sell his produce after the harvest and buy supplies later in the
season to avoid high storage losses.
2/   The Government may fix subsidies at a certain level with or without the
Project.



- 25 -
million dsr:h: the Project period but the projected inflow of dividends from
AMC would  t-:-.Uce ehe net call on Government resources to Birr 0.93 million,
over the Project period. Thereafter, there would be a net annual inflow of
about B-lr9 5.3 million until 1987/88 when repayments of the IDA credit would
reduc@ it to Birr 4.8 million annually. Turnover tax on sales of grain and
inputs is not included among the Government revenues since this income would
be forthcoming even without the Project.
Foreign Exchange
6.05      The production impact of the Project (para. 6.01 (a) and (c)) cannot
be quantified but any increase would lead to a reduction of grain imports or
an increase in pulse and oilseed exports. Reduction of storage losses (para.
6.01 (b)) io expected to allow foreign exchange saving of Birr 1.4 million an-
nually. The construction of buffer stock facilities would substitute lower
cost domestically produced grain for imports and in any one year when fully
used would result in foreign exchange savings of about Birr 17.5 million.
However, the frequency of good and bad years and thus the utilization of the
facilities cannot be predicted with any certainty (see however the assumptions
made in para. 7.01). These facilities would in any case be required for
security reserves (para. 3.22).  If incremental marketing facilities were
not to be constructed there would be increased losses and a disincentive to
production for the market, and increased imports would be needed.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annex 13)
7.01      The main quantifiable economic benefits of the Project result from
the establishment of additional marketing capacity to handle the incremental
volume of produce traded (para 6.01 (g)) and from a reduction in storage losses
(para. 6.01 (b)). Accordingly the costs of input supply, buffer stocks, exist-
ing public marketing and market infrastructure improvement have been excluded
in the economic analysis and to the extent 1/ that AMC's activities replace
private trade, an appropriate adjustment has been made for savings in the
private sector. The resulting rate of return for the Project over 20 years
is 18%. This would increase to 25% if the value of buffer stocks are included
under the assumptions that good harvest years occur every fourth year and that
the buffer stock facilities then are fully utilized to reduce imports at fore-
cast high prices the following year. The proportion of costs included in the
economic analysis is 65% in the latter alternative and 60% if buffer stocking
is excluded. Foreign exchange costs and benefits have been included at the
official rate of exchange as there is no basis for calculating the foreign
exchange benefits attributable to trading margins (Annex 13) and since the
foreign exchange component is likely to be similar in costs and benefits.
Unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 50% of current rates.
7.02      The Project faces considerable risks due to lack of information
about the existing marketing system, effects of recent reforms, uncertain-
ties about the future and shortage of experienced staff. The following
major risk elements deserve attention:
I/   55,000 MT of sub-standard private storage would be replaced by
AMC stores.



- 26 -
(a) Volume of Wholesale Trade. Knowledge of the volume and flow
of present trade and of existing storage facilities is
deficient and may result in excessive and/or wrongly located
storage facilities and high AMC costs. The projected gradual
expansion of warehouse facilities would minimize these risks.
(b) Volume of Public Marketing. AMC's share of total wholesale
trade would also depend on its ability to compete with private
trade in the marketing of peasant production. Two situations
may conceivably arise. Private trade may have been discouraged
by recent price controls, anti-hoarding rules, credit restric-
tions and nationalization of storage and the proclaimed re-
strictions on the activities in the private sector and AMC's
share may increase so much that it is unable to provide adequate
services and operate efficiently. The result would be a dis-
incentive to production and reduced benefits. With the new
pricing system and removal of credit restrictions and with the
exceptions for grain trade made in the new legislation (Annex 3),
private trade is however likely to retain its present volume.
If on the other hand AMC is unable to operate at least as
efficiently as private trade, it may acquire a low share of
the market or be forced to cut its margin to an extent that
it would operate at a loss. However, available information
concerning AMC's operation in the past two seasons and CADU
marketing experience indicates that AMC would be competitive.
(c) Basis for Managerial Decisions. Inadequate information on the
size of the harvest, local shortages and surpluses, on-farm
consumption and available stocks may cause errors in pricing,
in the volume and phasing of imports and in inter-regional
transfers, which may prove costly to AMC. The Project would
attempt to minimize these uncertainties by providing for
improvement in crop forecasting and market intelligence. As
noted in para. 3.11 the system of price limits would also give
more room for maneuvering than a system with fixed and announced
floor and ceiling prices.
(d) Availability of Staff. The expected rapid expansion of
public marketing will require very competent management
and a considerable number of new staff. On the managerial
side the Project would provide for technical assistance
and training and adequate numbers of middle and lower level
staff are believed to be available.
7.03      The Project would, however, be able to absorb the impact of consi-
derable adverse developments. A sensitivity analysis indicates that a 10%
increase in costs or 10% reduction of volume of grain handled or of the
marketing margins would reduce the economic rate of return to about 15% while



- 27 -
a 20% increase in costs or reduction of benefits would result in a rate of
return of about 10%. Only if there is a simultaneous increase of costs by 20%
and decline of benefits by 20%, would the return drop to an unacceptable level
of 3%. If buffer stocking benefits are included, however, this return would
be 9%.
7.04      Other non-quantifiable benefits include (a) the increases in produc-
tion that may result from the attempts to assure a minimum return to recom-
mended inputs and improved and expanded input distribution, (b) improved
capacity to reduce the incidence of local food shortages, and (c) income
redistribution in favor of producers and consumers, resulting from any
reduction in trade margins (para. 6.01 (d)).
7.05      The Project would ensure permanent employment for an additional 400
persons by 1980/81. AMC's handling of incremental grain dnd inputs would
also by that time have created about 6,000 temporary employment opportunities.
The construction of warehouses would create additional job opportunities
throughout the Project period for about 1,500 persons.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Borrower
had extended to AMC on additional contribution of Birr 4.25 million as
permanent trading capital.
8.02      Following are some of the more important assurances obtained
during negotiations:
(a)  the Borrower would, in accordance with its credit
policies, ensure the availability of credit adequate
to facilitate the wholesale trading of grain (para. 3.05);
(b)  minimum grain prices would be set at a level,sufficiently
high to give farmers adequate price incentives (para. 3.13);
(c)  AMC would be free to fix its day-to-day wholesale prices
within the ranges established by the Borrower on the
recommendation of EGA (para. 3.13):
(d)  the Borrower would reimburse AMC losses incurred in the
import of produce and inputs, and in buffer-stocking
operations carried out in support of the price limits
(para. 3.13);
(e)  The Borrower would consult with IDA from time to
time on the adequacy of the price system in respect
of farmer incentives (para. 3.13);
(f)  the produce of state farms would normally be marketed
through AMC (para. 3.19);



- 28 -
(g) the nationalized mills would procure their grain
requirements from AMC to the extent that AMC is able
to supply (para. 3.21);
(h)  construction of warehouses would be carried out pur-
suant to the detailed four-year construction program
agreed between the Borrower and IDA (para. 4.04);
(i) in the event of a variation of greater than 25% in the
aggregate annual volume of warehouse construction, or
any other substantial deviation, from the agreed program
in any year, the following year's program of construction
would be established by agreement between IDA and the
Borrower (para. 4.04);
(j) disbursement from MIIF would be matched by at least
an equal investment by the local authority concerned
(para. 4.09);
(k) the Borrower would ensure that AMC has sufficient
overdraft facilities with the commercial banks
(para. 4.12);
(1) the Borrower would ensure effective coordination
and cooperation among all the agencies involved in
the implementation of the Project (para. 4.14);
(m)  IDA would be consulted prior to the appointment
of successor staff to the seven key AMC management
posts (para. 5.04).
8.03      The necessary assurances having been received, the Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$24 million to the Government of Ethiopia.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION, AND TRADE IN CEREALS,
OIL-CROPS AND PULSES
A. Production and Consumption
1.   Data on production and consumption of grains, oilseeds and pulses are
nonexistent but may be derived from sample surveys of cultivation of different
crops, yield sampling and various studies of per capita consumption and popu-
lation. The estimates in Table 1 reflect the situation in 1974/75 under normal
growing conditions. A breakdown of production by crop and region is provided
in Table 2. Consumption may similarly be broken down by region (Table 3) and
an estimate of regional surpluses and deficits derived. These estimates may
in turn be compared with observations on the direction and volume of grain
trade. Arussi, Bale, Begemdir and Shoa are definite surplus regions while
Eritrea and Tigre imports substantial amounts of grain. The status of the
remaining regions is uncertain (Table 4).
Table 1: Production and consumption of cereals, oilcrops and
pulses under normal growing conditions 1974/75 /1 (OOOMT)
Cereals        Pulses/Oilcrops      Total
Production /2             3,780                705             4,485
On farm consumption       2,666                159             2,825
Rural non-farm              482                 52               534
Nomad                       100                -15                85
Urban                       538                 86               624
Total Consumption   3,786                 282            4,068
Implied Foreign Trade    Imp.6            Exp. 423       Exp.   417 /3
Total     3,780                705             4,485
/1   Based on material provided by J. Dalton, Economic Commission for
Africa (ECA).
/2   After deduction of 17% for seed, feed and waste.
/3   Actual exports were about 210,000 MT which suggests that either
production has been exaggerated,' consumption underestimated or
that this year was characterised by adverse growing conditions.



Table  2:    Estimated Production of Cereals, Pulses and Oilseeds by Region for a "Normalu
Production Year (000 MT)
CEREALS                           Total    Total          Grand
Maize   Sorghum/Millet   Barley  Wheat    Teff   Total  Pulses   Oilseeds             Total
Harvested Production        1059        1315             892     484       804   4554    566           580        5700
Waste and Seed                                                                              96         345        1215
Feed
Production, Excluding
Waste, Seed and Feed
Arussi                       42           14             195     114        13    378       29          27
Bale                         31            3              85      37        10    166        9          17
Begemdir                      6          180              45      17        91    339       51          37
Eritrea                      12          141              30      10         9    202       12          46
Gojjam                       12           68              42      13        96    231       30          23
Gemu Gofa                    38           22              10        2         9     81       2           _
Harrarghe                    76          286               7       5         8    382       11           2
Illubabor                    83           18              3        1        17    122        8           2
Kefa                         91           17               8       3        29    148        8           -
Shoa                        253          105            204      146       211    919    202            31
Sidamo                       76            7             16        1         9    109       22           -
Tigre                         5           60             28       20        34    147       24          21
Wollega                     132           43              19       2        64    260       12          26
Wollo                        22          128              48      31        67    296       50           3
Total           879         1092             740     402       667   3780    470           235        4485
Source:  J. Dalton, ECA
December 17, 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 3:   Consumption of Cereals, Oilcrops and Pulses 1974/75 (000 MT)
On Farm           Rural
Region          Consumption       Non-Farm Nomads       Urban    Total
Arussi             133               27       -           13        173
Bale                95               20      13            7        135
Begemdir           220               56       1           27        304
Eritrea            162               35      14           99        310
Gemu Gofa           87               18       2            9        116
Gojjam             212               53       2           23        290
Harrarghe          271               33      31           51        386
Illubabor           93               11       3            7        114
Kaffa              143               18       3           21        185
Shoa               573               74       2          264        913
Sidamo              91               43       6           27        167
Tigre              210               57       3           29        299
Wollega            234               28       1           14        277
Wollo              301               61       4           33        399
2,825              534      85          624      4,068
Source: J. Dalton ECA
December 17, 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Table 4: Regional Surpluses or Deficits of Grain, Oilseeds and
Pulses (000 MT)
Eubank's       Dalton's
Province   According to Tables 2-3    Observations /1  Observations /2
Arussi              +261                   +72                 +150
Bale                + 57                   +38                 + 57
Begemdir            +123                    +35                +123
Eritrea              - 50                  -100                - 50
Gemu Gofa            - 33                     0                   0
Gojjam               -  6                   +25                + 10
Harrarghe           +  9                    +10                - 20
Illubabor           + 18                    -10                - 20
Kaffa                - 29                   -15                - 29
Shoa                +239                    +80                +239
Sidamo               - 36                   -35                   0
Tigre                -107                   -40                - 90
Wollega              + 21                   -10                + 21
Wolle                - 50                     0                +  5
Exports        417                      75                396
/1   Cereals only; K. Eubanks, Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
/2   J. Dalton, ECA.
0ff-farm consumption of cereals, oilseeds and pulses is estimated at
1.2 million MT (29%) and the marketed volume including exports would thus be
1.5-1.6 million MT (Table 1). A large portion of this marketed volume is
direct transfers between producers and consumers or handled by local trade.
The volume moving in commercial channels may be estimated from the urban
demand plus exports and amounts to about 0.85 million MT.
2.   Imports of cereals increased somewhat during the last decade and parti-
cularly in 1974 (120,000 MT) in view of the drought. (Table 5) Imports are,
however, normally only about 1 percent of total consumption. Exports of
oilseeds and pulses have grown considerably during the last few years and
reached in 1973 a level of about 225,000 MT (Table 6).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Table 5:  Grain Imports, 1962 - 1974 (000 MT grains or grain equivalent)
1962  1963  1964 1965  1966 1967  1968 1969  1970 1971  1972 19731/ 19741/
Wheat         1.1      -     -   6.6   8.3  0.1    -   4.5  31.5 34.1  5.05 11.79   1.02
Wheat
Flour         6.2   4.8    8.8 18.8  38.7 28.2  21.7 23.9  38.9 11.3  0.05  0.05   0.06
Total Theat  7.3   4.8    8.8 25.3  46.9 28.3  21.7 28.3  70.2 45.4  5.1  11.84   1.08
Maize         0.2      -     -    -    3.8  0.1    -    -    1.0  0.1    -   0.76   0.26
Sorghum         -     -      -    -      -   0.2    -    -       -    -   0.8   2.13    -
Other           -   0.3    1.2  1.9           -      -    -      -    -      -    -       -
Total         7.5   5.1   10.0 27.2  50.7 28.6  21.7 28.3  71.2 45.5  5.9  14.73   1.34
-e'torts 2/  -3.5  -1.0   -1.4   -   -0.1 -0.4  -1.3 -3.9  -2.9 -5.3 -5.2  -7.8   -7.23
Net
imports       4.0   4.1    8.6 27.2  50.6 28.2  20.4 24.4  68.3 40.2  0.7   6.93   5.89
1/  Excludes imports under the drought relief program which amounted to:
1974            120,00C I-T
1975 (est.)      20,000 MT
2/  Excluding 5,000 to 15,000 tons of unrecorded exports from eastern Hararghe area to
Somalia in recent years.
Source:  Annual. Trade Statistics



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Table 6:  Export of Cereals, Pulses, Oilseeds and Oilcakes, 1962-1974
(000 MT)
1962  1963  1964  1965 1966  1967  1968  1969:- 1970  1971  1972  1973  1974
CEREALS          3.5   1.0   1.4    -   0.1   0.4   1.3   3.9   2.9   5.3   5.2   7.8   7.23
Wheat            -    0.1    -       -    -      -      -     -      -     -      -    2.9   2.70
Maize           0.7   0.5   0.5    -    -        -      -    0.1    -    0.1   0.1   1.1   1.04
Barley           -      -    0.1    -    -       -      -     -      -    0.1    -       -    0.06
Durrah          2.8   0.4   0.7    -   0.1   0.4   1.1   3.8   2.9   3.7   5.1   3.8   3.43
Other
cereals          -      -    0.1    -    -       -    0.2    -       -    1.4    -       -     -
PULSES          67.7  67.9  59.9  52.7 67.7  69.1  74.6  78.6  50.5  63.6  76.7 114.1 116.54
Horsebeans    22    29.1  19.9  17.8 22.4  24.7  18.5  27.4  15.6  16.6  17.1  31.7  25.99
Chickpeas       5      8.5  15.3   9.5 10.9  10.7  13.8   8         2.1   6.4   9.2  11.3   8.13
Haricots       14      9.6  10.7  19.7 19.5  17.9  19.3  16.7  17.1  22.5  28.4  49.8  45.97
Lentils        25.3  16.2  10.4   5.7 14.9  15    22.1  24.5  15.7  17.9  21.6  19.8  36.45
Beans,
others          1.4   4.5   3.6    -    -    0.8   0.9   2.0    -    0.2   0.4   1.5    -
OILSEEDS        56.8  76.9 .75.7  72.3 62.5  57.7  50.0  56.0  56.1  63.7  89.9 112.8  93.02
Groundnut       3.2   5.4   7.1   3.4  2.0   1.6   3.1   1.8   0.6   1.3   1.2   2.3   3.56
Linseed        25.9  37.1  31.0  19.3 10.5   9.7   3.7   0.3   0.5   0.1   0.1   0.4   2.00
Cottonseed      1.6   3.8   4.9   4.9  7.8  11.2   6.9   9.9   7.3  12.9  19.6  12.7   3.31
Casterseed      7.1   7.2   6.8   4.4  5.2   1.9   1.0   1.9   0.7   1.2   1.4   3.9   1.62
Sesame seed    9.6   8.5  14.3  21.4 20.3  19.7  27.0  30.7  39.7  36.7  52.7  82.1  84.57
Niger seed      5.7  10.1   9.3  10.8  6.8   8.8   6.9  10.3   7.1  11.0  14.1  10.1   7.56
Other
oilseeds        3.7   4.8   2.3   8.1  9.9   4.8   1.4   1.1   0.7   0.5   0.8   1.4   0.40
OILCAKES        26.2  12.2  22.8    -  10.9  31.2  25.7  33.9  26.7  40.0  53.3  52.9  33.53
Niger          15.3   1.6  13.8    -   1.6  16.4   7.9  11.1   5.7   6.4  15.3  13.4   6.91
Groundnut       1.2   1.3   4.3    -    -    0.9   1.9   2.0   2.0   2.4   2.3   3.9   2.45
Cottoncake       -      -     -      -    -      -    0.4   6.4  10.9  10.7   7.3  18.0  19.76
Lincake          -      -     -      -   8.8   9.1  11.3   8.6   5.4  18.8  22.1  10.0   4.32
Otheroilcakes  9.7   9.3   4.7    -   5.0   4.8   4.2   5.8   2.7   1.7   6.3   7.4   0.09
Source: Annual Trade Statistics
December 17, 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
B. Structure of Grain Trade
Private Trade
3.        Wickstrom 1/ estimated that the number of dealers engaged in the
grain trade between the producer and the terminal markets ranged from
12,500 to 25,000 in rural areas and 4.000 and 8,000 in the towns, and
Eubanks 2/ found that there were some 25 major grain merchants at Addis Ababa
with a combined storage capacity of 100,000 tons. In addition, there are
some thirteen large flour mills with a total capacity of 160,000 tons per
annum, that handle the major part of marketed wheat supply (Appendix 1).
4.        Within the marketing hierarchy, functions are frequently blurred.
For example, in the rural sector a trader may well act as a dealer on his
own account, as an agent for an urban wholesaler, as a retailer to rural
consumers, as well as being a truck owner or a farmer. While the medium and
larger-scale traders obtained commercial bank credit (partly secured by
produce stocks) for their marketing operations, they used their own sources
of finance rather than institutional credit for investments in storage and
marketing facilities. Most longer-term stock holding (Table 7) was con-'
centrated in the terminal markets (particularly Addis Ababa) where storage
facilities and the necessary risk capital were available.
5.        "Open markets" at over 2,500 market villages throughout the country
operate at intervals according to a prescribed market calendar and constitute
an important part in rural social, as well as economic, life. Urban markets
operate on a daily basis as do the main terminal markets at Addis Ababa,
Nazareth and Asmara. Most urban market facilities are rudimentary and these
markets are characterised by congestion and labor intensive operations.
6.        Despite the fragmentation of the market, it appears that a major
influence in price formation is exerted by the terminal market at Addis Ababa
(and to a lesser extent that at Asmara) where the operations of the larger
wholesaler stockists are concentrated. In the absence of any reliable crop
forecasts, it is the subjective production estimates of these wholesalers
which is the crucial market force, especially during and immediately after
harvest, since they command the facilities (storage and finance) for seasonal
stockholding - an operation which, because of the uncertainties involved,
carries with it high risks and the possibility of either high profits or
high losses. 3/
1/   "Increasing Efficiency in the National Grain Marketing System"
Wickstrom EPID Publication No. 14, October 1973: pp 10 and 12.
2/   "Findings of a Market Structure Survey": PPD, Min. Ag., July 1973.
3/  Marketing of selected agricultural commodities in the Baco area,
W. Manig, November 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Table 7: Storage Capacity (MT)
Agricultural Marketing Corporation
Private (incl.
Owned             Rented        State Farms       AMC Rented)
Storage
Arussi                                                    8,000
Bale                     
Begemdir               300                1,000                              -
Eritrea              1,000                6,000                          145,000
Gemu Gofa              -                     -            3,600(cotton)      -
Gojjam               3,000                                    -  
Harrarghe              -                     -            1,050            3,500
Kaffa                  -                  1,000               -            3,000
Illubabor            1,000                  100
Shoa                25,200              37,500            5,000          360,000
Sidamo                 -                     -           10,000              -
Tigre                             -                           -            1,000
Wollega              1,000                   -
Wollo                1,500                                5,000(repair)  20,000
33,0001/            45,600          32,650-2/       532,5003/
Source:  EGC, Eubanks,MOA and Mission Estimates
1/ of which silos 29,000 MT
2/ of which for grain 25,000 MT
3/  of which nationalized mills about 20,000 MT
of which AMC rented storage 45,000 MT
January 21, 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 9
7.        In primary markets, the ceiling price on any one day seems to be
determined by the ruling terminal market price (after deduction of marketing
and transport costs) which local traders obtain by telephone. Below this
ceiling, local market prices are largely determined by traders according to
available supplies and, because of farmer reactions, appear to show consider-
able irregular price movement. Resultant excessive regional price differen-
tials tend to persist because of imperfect market integration. Seasonal
price variations in excess of levels justified by storage costs and risks
frequently occur. Because speculative stockholding is concentrated at termi-
nal rather than regional markets, grains often flow back to producing regions
when shortages force up local prices during the preharvest period.
8.        There is a legal requirement that traders should be registered with
the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, but this is more honored in the breach
than in the observance. Municipalities controlling urban markets generally
require an annual licensing of traders using the market facilities.
9.        The Ethiopian Standards Institute (ESI, established in 1970) has,
in consultation with the Ethiopian Grain Board (EGB) prescribed standards for
most agricultural commodities but through lack of any enforcement agency,
these remain largely ineffective. In practice, the use of mixed planting
material and conservative tastes based on color and origin make objective
classification difficult. In any case, a priority task is to reduce the
amount of impurities at present accepted in traded lots at primary markets.
10       Execution of the Weights and Measures Proclamation of 1963 is also
entrusted to the ESI. At primary markets, traditional volume measures, which
are both variable and ill-defined, continue in use. Where scales are employed,
these are rarely, if ever, checked and serve more as a means of reducing the
effective price paid to the producer.
Ethiopian Grain Agency
11.       The Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) was established in 1950 as an
autonomous government agency, its members being the Minister of Commerce
and Tourism (Chairman), the Minister of Agriculture and Settlement, the
Minister of Finance, the Governors of the National Bank and Commercial
Bank and the General Manager of the AID Bank. Its primary objectives are
(a) to maximize the export of grains, flour, pulses and oilseeds, (b) to
improve the quality and grade of these exports and (c) to protect Ethiopia's
foreign exchange position.
12.       To achieve these aims, EGA is empowered to:
(a) regulate the prices at which these commodities may be
purchased and sold for export or domestic consumption;
(b) counsel with the Minister of Agriculture and Settlement
on production and marketing problems;



AN=  1
Page 10
(c) license and control all exports of all grains, flour, pulses and
oilseeds from Ethiopia.
(d) license merchants cleaning these products.
13.       Until 1971, EGA's operations were minimal and export certification
requirements were carried out on its behalf by the Ministry of Commerce and
Tourism. Since then, EGA has been reorganized and given financial autonomy
by the allocation to it of the proceeds of a special tax on exports. EGA
has implemented control and licensing of cleaning facilities, instituted
a system of quality inspection, introduced measures for improved storage,
hygiene and pest control, 1/ and initiated a market intelligence service.
All these activities relate solely to export commodity operations, but, powers
are widely drawn and EGA was for example involved in the recently introduced
price control measures for grain produCed for domestic consumption. Recent
legislation has greatly increased EGA's role in domestic trade regulation
(Annex 12).
Ethiopian Grain Corporation
14.       Prior to the establishment of AMC direct state intervention in
grain trading was through the Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC). Established
by charter in 1960 as a Corporation with limited liability, EGC's main object
was defined as the encouragement of "the increased production of agricultural
products... by stabilizing the market, improving the quality of agricultural
products and by exporting agricultural products". Its authorized eapital
wes Birr 15 million consisting of 150,000 common shares of Birr 100 each, of
which 120,000 were held by the Ministry of Finance and 30,000 by the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia. All powers of the Corporation were vested in its Board of
Directors made up of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Agricul-
ture, Commerce and Tourism, and National Community Development, the Planning
Commission and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, who elected their own
chairman. The Corporation operated as a commercial entity and was intended
to make profits and pay dividends on its share capital.
15.       EGC's paid up capital only amounted to Birr 9.5 million (US$4.6 mil-
lion) because of the Ministry of Finance's share-holding some Birr 5.5 million
(US$2.65 million) or 46 percent remained unpaid. 2/ EGC's capital was largely
utilized in the acquisition of land and construction of stores. As of June
30, 1974, it owned storage with a total capacity of 33,000 MT of which 29,000
was in silos (20,000 at Addis Ababa).
16.       Because the growing urban consumer demand for wheat flour and bread
was outstripping the domestic production of wheat, EGC undertook a series of
1/ In conjunction with the Plant Quarantine Section of the Plant Production
and Protection Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2/ A special contribution of Birr 4.2 million, was, however, paid by the
Ministry of Finance in 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
wheat import operations mainly under externally financed projects. The first
in the early 1960s was under a US PL 480 scheme; the second involved imports
of 4,000 tons of wheat in 1965 and a further 6,000 tons in 1970 under World
Food Program auspices; and the third covered shipments of some 30,000 tons
of Australian wheat in 1970/71, financed under UK bilateral assistance.  These
wheat imports were mainly sold to the fast growing local flour milling indus-
try, whose capacity expanded from 40,000 tons in 1965 to about 160,000 MT
in 1975. In order to obtain greater influence over the consumer price for
flour, EGC acquired and operated its own flour mill, (Adowa Flour Mill SC).
Of the WFP imports in 1965, some 34 percent were diverted for emergency famine
distribution. Sales of wheat were originally on credit terms to encourage
bakers and millers to buy from the Corporation, but this practice was stopped
in 1973 because of the extent of defaults.
17.       EGC was allowed to retain the proceeds of sale of imports as working
capital to finance domestic purchases, particularly during the immediate
postharvest season, with the object of stabilizing producer prices. But
whereas, thanks to imports, its share of the wheat market could be as high as
40 percent, EGC's market share of other commodities averaged about 1.5 percent
which was insufficient for it to be a price leader. In the absence of any
producers' organization, EGC bought mainly through large farms and middlemen
on a commission basis. Because of insufficient information and experience and
lack of Government price policy, it was not possible for EGC to operate any
pre-announced producer prices, and it could only follow market price trends.
Shortage of working capital frequently limited its stockholding ability and
reduced its capacity to influence seasonal price variations. EGC's limited
operations in most years failed to generate sufficient gross profit to cover
its administrative overhead costs. As of June 30, 1974, accumulated deficits
amounted to Birr 6.8 million due in part to the need for special provisions
to cover (i) adjustments in stock values (Birr 662,000), (ii) bad and doubtful
debts (Birr 1,200,000) and (iii) income tax and turnover tax totalling
Birr 2.2 million as a result of a High Court decision that EGC is not exempt
from such taxes.
Rs.       Government price control measures during 1975 did not provide for
any seasonal adjustment of prices to take the costs of stockholding into
account. This and the fear of action against "hoarding" led private whole-
salers to limit their operations, and a large part of seasonal stockholding
was borne by the EGC and small farmers.  With additional funds provided by
the Ministry of Finance (Birr 4.2 million) and the Commercial Bank (Birr 2.9
million), EGC during the period January to June 1975 purchased some 70,000
tons of cereals (mostly wheat and maize) and had to rent storage with a
capacity of some 46,000 tons to supplement its own storage facilities. Most
of EGC's purchases came from commercial farmers now going out of business.
During the second half of 1975 EGC disposed of the grain by rules to institu-
tional buyers, the mills and to the public (max. 50 kg lots) and made a
profit of about Birr 2 million. It did not sell to private wholesalers.
The buying operations were largely financed by a merchandise loan and overdraft
facility (both 9.5% interest) with the Commercial Bank.



ANNEX I
Page 12
19.       From the past experience outlined above, it appears that the main
weaknesses in EGC and its operations stemmed from:
(i) lack of definition of its priorities between the objectives
of providing producer incentives, assuming consumer protec-
tion and making profits on its operations;
(ii)  failure by Government to provide EGC with the necessary
financial resources as shown by
-- failure of the Ministry of Finance to subscribe in full
the EGC's capital, aggravated by the eventual imposition
of taxes on EGC's operations;
-- much delayed remuneration in respect of special operations
(e.g., famine relief in 1965/66);
-- absence of provision for working capital and access to
necessary bank credit on reasonable terms;
(iii) absence of any direct link to the peasant producers through
which EGC could operate in its domestic purchases; and
(iv) poor management, as exemplified by
-- bad timing of imports (in 1972 these arrived in the post-
harvest season and merely served to depress producer prices
further and added to EGC's operational losses);
l osses on credit sales;
-- infrequent physical stock-takings to check book records;
no cost accounting procedures;
-- dispersion of resources in side-line activities (e.g.,
exports of haricot beans).
On the credit side, EGC was able to maintain reasonably good standards in
its warehouses and silos, and to avoid undue physical losses on the grain
it has handled.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
C. Price Behavior for Selected Commodities
20o       Th- behavior of prices in response to changing market conditions
is one of the performance criteria of a market. Large fluctuations in prices9
while indicating the market's sensitivity to interacting forces of supply and
demand, are generally considered undesirable because of the economic risk such
fluctuations imposed on individuals. On the production side, these risks
represent a serious disincentive and have a depressing effect on the national
output. For planning purposes, the type and magnitude of price fluctuations
signal deficiencies which can be alleviated through appropriate investments
and policy measures.
210       Information on prices of agricultural commodities is both scarce
and inaccurate. Nevertheless, an analysis of the data available can provide
a rough indication of the pattern of price movements and, as such, a valuable
background for the design of a marketing project. In this annex some aspects
of temporal and geographical variation in prices are summarized for selected
cereals, pulses and oilseeds.
22.       The data analyzed are the Ethiopian Grain Corporation's (EGC) whole-
sale price series for Addis Ababa, Nazareth, Asmara and Dire-Dawa for the
period 1966-74. For Addis Ababa, retail price data collected by the Central
Statistics Office have also been utilized. Producer prices are available from
a few selected locations in the CADU and Bako areas and have been used to
analyze the wholesale-producer price margins.
Year-to-Year Variation
23.       The simple yearly averages of monthly wholesale prices displayed a
relatively flat trend during the period 1966-72 for all commodities. For
1973-74 a relatively modest upturn in prices was noticeable for cereals while
sharp increases occurred for pulses and oilseeds. This different behavior
reflects the differences in the commercial link for the two commodity groups
with the world market which is relatively weak for most cereals, but more
prominent for oilseeds and pulses.
24.       There are large variations in prices from one year to the next and
a pronounced pattern in the price fluctuations with the two major features
being that the largest year-to-year changes were increases rather than
decreases and that the maximum changes for the 1966-74 period are heavily
concentrated in two years. For cereals, 1970 was the year with the most
spectacular price increases which in Addis Ababa ranged from about 30-60
percent above 1969 levels. For oil-seeds and pulses, the 1973 increases
in most cases exceeded those of 1970 and fell generally into the range of
about 60-100 percent. Some sharp declines in prices occurred in 1968 and
1972 when prices were about 40 percent lower than during the preceding years
for some commodities. Prices appeared to be less stable for the period
1970-74 compared with 1966-70.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
Intra-Seasonal Variation
25.       Equally important to producers are the variations in produce prices
within a year. The data seem to show that seasonal variation maxima tended
to coincide with the years with the highest interyear variation, although
there were quite a few exceptions. Percentagewise, seasonal fluctuations are
much larger than yearly fluctuations and for the ten crops studied, the highest
monthly price for a given year and crop frequently exceeded the lowest by
more than 100 percent.
26.       There is an extreme irregularity in the seasonal pattern of wholesale
prices. While the seasonal peak generally occurs between June and December,
there are numerous exceptions for individual crops. Furthermore, price peaks
may be extremely pronounced one year and completely absent the next. The
difference between the March and September prices in the Addis Ababa whole-
sale market is shown in Table 8 for the 1962-74 peried and average Birr 3.20
per quintal. The variations shown render speculation a very risky business.
Reduction of seasonal fluctuations will require an improved crop monitoring
and forecasting system. Since the uncertainties can only be reduced but
not eliminated, an agency concerned with seasonal stocking operations must
therefore start with a strong financial backing and maintain an appropriate
trading margin to remain solvent over time. This means that the trading margin
in addition to regular operating costs and a "normal" profit, should thus
include a risk premium which over time can be adjusted to equal the true
financial cost of seasonal stockpiling. Such a premium currently charged by
traders may at times mistakenly be referred to as "excess profit," and as
such be assumed to be available for redistribution to producers/consumers.
This notion of prospective distribution benefits is correct only insofar as
there may still be some excess profit above the risk premium (so far un-
substantiated) and since a very large organization, such as the proposed AMC,
could operate on a smaller risk premium than smaller operators because of
the possibility of risk spreading in a large heterogenous national market.
Regional Variation
27.       An examination of wholesale prices reveals a certain regional
price pattern. Prices generally display group behavior between markets,
i.e., are either all above or below the respective levels in another market
(e.g., Addis Ababa). For example, prices have been generally higher in Asmara
and lower in Nazareth than in Addis Ababa. However, regional margins differ
between commodities. For example, the average Addis Ababa - Asmara margin
for 1973/74 for brown teff was Birr 0.39, while for maize it was Birr 1.02.
While the respective origins of supply are likely to be the main reason for
this difference, further clarification is definitely needed.  Changes in the
production and consumption pattern through land reform and other development
efforts and provision of market infrastructure are bound to affect the
regional price differentials. That regional margins are very sensitive is
substantiated by the fact that they have varied significantly from year to
year and even oscillated between positive and negative within years.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Table 8      Seasonal Variation in Addis Ababa Wholesale Prices
Difference Between March and September Prices Birr/nt(6 months)
White Teff      White Wheat       Maize      Sorghum    Barley
1974        0.96               0.29            0.62       3.04        1.20
1973        5.28               9.24            8.89       5.88        7.56
1972        3.07              -1.22           -1.85       0.80       -1.82
1971        2.05               1.12            0.64       0.15        4.67
1970       11.80              19.38           10.89      11.82       11.42
1969        2.32              -0.01            5.52       5.43        2.59
1968       -0.25               0.26            1.86      -3.52       -0.26
1967        2.44               2.97           -0.71       1.35        3.05
1966       -1.75              -1.56           -0.99      -0.27       -2.18
1965        9.09               2.38            5.05       6.28        4.58
1964        4.68              10.48            4.61       7.72        4.94
1963        3.05              -0.37           -0.69       0.31       -0.85
1962        1.98               3.86            2.85       2.77        2.91
Total    44.72              46.82           36.69      41.76       37.81
Average   3.44               3.60            2.82       3.21        2.91
Average all crops        3.20
Source: EGC wholesale prices.
January 21, 1977.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Crop-to-Crop Variation
28.       Relative crop prices within a given market have also varied tremend-
ously in Ethiopia. These variations are, of course, interrelated with the
three types of variation described above but require separate analysis as
they are of utmost importance from a farm budget point of view. The extension
service, for example, has to take into account shifts in comparative advantage
among crops in dispensing its advice to farmers. The example below illustrates
this point.
Unit Price of Selected Crops in Relation to White
Wheat, Addis Ababa
Percent difference from wheat
1970      1974
Brown teff                     +17.6      +27.2
Maize                          -33.2      -32.5
Rapeseed                       - 5.7      -40.0
Neug                           + 7.4      +73.3
29.       Relative crop prices are of decisive economic importance for the
country as a whole since they determine the allocation of scarce economic
resources. A stable relationship reflecting the long term comparative
advantage in different parts of the country is essential for the agricultural
development efforts.
Retail Margins
30.       Retail price series are available only for Addis Ababa.  A comparison
with EGC's wholesale price series indicates that brown teff has had a conti-
nuous negative retail margin. The reason for this could not be found. For
wheat, retail margins are relatively large 1/ but have shown a tendency in
recent years to narrow somewhat. For barley, maize and sorghum, the average
margin is about Birr 3 per quintal and there has been no significant change
over the past five years. A study by Maning 2/ reveals the retail margins
in a small market village in western Shoa. Again the average margin for teff
is negative - Birr 0.65 per quintal while the margins for maize and neug
are Birr 1.55 and 6.83 respectively.
1/   The comparison may possibly refer to wholesale wheat and retail wheat
flour.
2/   Maning, W., Marketing of selected agricultural commodities in the
Bako area, Ethiopia, 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
Wholesale and Retail Prices, and Retail Margins,
Averages for 1970-74 (Birr/gt)
Prices                    Margin
Wholesale      Retail     Absolute   As Percent of
Wholesale Price
(percent)
Wheat (white)             24.98            38.34     13.36           53.5
Barley                    18.96           21.63       2.67           14.1
Maize                      17.63           20.00      2.37            13.4
Sorghum                   23.70           27.53       3.83           16.2
Teff (Brown)              32.47            31.02     -1.45           -4.5
Producer - Wholesale Margins
31.   Producer prices are only known for a few locations in the Chilalo
(CADU) and Bako (Manig study) areas and the estimates are very un-
certain. The difference in relation to the Addig Ababa wholesale
prices have been calculated to establish an average margin during the
main buying season after the harvest. This margin has been adjusted
upwards by 10 percent due to the cheating on weight and calculations
which has been established as normal in the CADU area. The unweighted
average margin per quintal/km is Birr 0.32. The transport and handling
component is estimated at Birr 0.14.
Place     Distance from    Crop    Average   Average margin          Time
Addis Ababa              Margin    adjusted for          Period
cheating
(km)                 Birr/qt   Birr/qt   Birr/km
Sheboka         247       Maize        3.40       4.50    0.0187    1970/72
Teff       20.15      22.65    0.0917    1970/72
Neug        3.69       5.87    0.0238    1970/72
Asella          175       Wheat        3.13       5.06    0.0289    1968/74
Barley      3.67       4.93    0.0282    1971/73
Huruta          150       Wheat        1.56       3.80    0.0253    1968/74
Barley      3.89       5.38    0.0359    1971/74
Bekoji          235       Wheat        4.57       6.47    0.0275    1968/74
Barley      4.84       6.10    0.0260    1971/74
Asassa          300       Wheat        4.97       6.66    0.0222    1971/74
Barley      6.22       7.28    0.0243    1971/74
0.0320



ANNEX 1
Page 18
Parity Prices
32.   Foreign trade parities are used to indicate what the opportunity
costs are of producing domestically versus importing from foreign
sources, or consuming domestically versus exporting. The concept
has to be used with caution since world market prices have been
unstable in recent years and it is neither possible nor desirable
to rigidly link a national economy to the world market. Further-
more, the world market is generally not a reliable source of
supply for very large requirements. But in the long run it is in
a country's best interest to adjust domestic prices as closely
as possible to parity levels if the country has to enter the world
market as a substantial buyer or a seller.
33.   Parity prices can be calculated at various levels in the market,
i.e., farm gate, wholesale, retail or port, and vary according to
location throughout the country. As an example, a rough calculation
of import parity prices for early 1975 is presented below.
Import Parity Prices, Wholesale Addis Ababa for Maize,
Sorghum and Wheat, January - February 1975
Maize     Sorghum         Wheat
(US$/MT)
F.O.B. US Gulf Ports           126          114           153
Ocean Freight                    37          37            37
C.i.f. Ethiopian Port          163          151           190
(Birr/MT)
C.i.f. Ethiopian Port          333          308           388
Port charges                     14          14            14
Handling charges                 40          40            40
Domestic transport              60           60            60
Import Parity, Addis           447          422           502
Actual Addis Wholesale Price  135           235           240
Addis Wholesale as % of          30          56            48
Import Parity
Source:   Mission estimates.
34.   The calculation shows that cereal prices in Ethiopia are considerably
out of line with world prices. This can have serious consequences
as heavy imports may be required in the next few years; and the
Government faces a decision to subsidize imports out of budgetary
resources or allow consumer prices to rise. For export crops a
similar calculation would show up to what price level the country
remains competitive in the world market.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
D. Marketing Costs
35.   The present costs of handling of grain are summarized below:
Birr/MT
Weighing, bagging and stitching             2.50
Loading or unloading                        1.50
Transportation per km.                      0.10
Bags (100 kg; use 7-8 times)                4.00
Pest control                                1.00
Storage losses 1-2% (12 months warehouse)
E. Marketing Problems
36.   Reliable information on which to analyze and assess the performance
of the existing marketing system in Ethiopia is lacking. Among
observers and commentators, however, there is a consensus of opinion
that the system has been characterized by:
(a) high transport costs, particularly where feeder roads are
concerned: double transport due to lack of local capital
and storage facilities;
(b) the weak position of the producer because of:
(i) his need to sell immediately after the harvest to
meet tax, debt and rent payments;
(ii) restricted facilities for on-farm storage;
(iii) the fact that he virtually has no option except to
seU his produce on the day when he brings it to the
primary market; and
(iv)   lack of relevant price information.
(c) lack of competition between buyers;
(d) uncontrolled weights and measures which operate to the
traders' advantage;
(e) labor-intensive market operations;
(f) numerous title transfers in the marketing chain;



ANNM I
Page 20
(g) nonexistence of grading and quality otandordo leading to
most traded lots having a high impurity content (up to 15
percent), which adds to the transport costs of the present
system;
(h) low standards of storage hygiene and pest control, although
looses on this account often appear to be =zggQTated
(i) lack of price stability from one year to another and thus
a reluctance from farmers to use cash inputs; and
(j) inefficient crop forecasting and thus high risks and margins
in seasonal storage.
F. CADU Alternative Outlet
37.   CADU has since 1968/69 undertaken to market particularly wheat and
barley in competition with private trade. The purpose has been to
improve the producer prices by reducing the marketing margins and
to stabilize prices, thereby improving farmers' incentives and pro-
duction. The project has been buying at an increasing number of
marketing centers (now 30) most of which are being converted into
primary cooperative societies. The crop buying is concentrated
in the period December - March to allow for input distribution
from the same centers/societies in April - June. An analysis of
the activities 1/ reveals that the project in the period 1968/69-
1972/73 has offered the farmers between Birr 2.23 - 4.94 (average
3.14) more than the local traders per quintal of whemet (after price
adjustment of the latter downward by 10 percent due to the cheating
in weight and calculations that have been establiohed). After ad-
justing the cost of expatriate staff to Ethiopian wage levels GADU
has made losses during the first four years of operation varying
between Birr 1.36 - 2.29 per quintal. In 1972/73 the project, how-
ever, made a small profit (Birr 0.40) and the average loss for the
period thus amounted to Birr 0.96. The presene olume of trading
1974/75 is about 24,000 MT and at this volume CkDU has no difLicul-
ties in breaking even while reducing the traditional average margin
by about Birr 3.00 per quintal. 2/ An attempt to lntroduce floor
prices in 1971/72 failed since the project had no control over
imports and no possibilities of forecasting domestic supplies. By
carrying most of the purchased stocks to the follczwilng year when
prices rose considerably, it was possible to minimi2e the lossees
To what extent CADU's trading (now 16 percent.of tot&  markreted
production) has influenced the pricing and marketing practices of
private trade has not been firmly established. CADU fixes its
1/   Haglund, Lars, The Grain Marketing System of Chilalo, CADU 1974.
2/   Including seasonal storage.



ANNEX 1
Page 21
prices in relation to the Addis Ababa wholesale prices after
deduction of its costs (now about Birr 7.00 per quintal) and
private traders appear to maintain a certain relation to the
CADU price level.
G. Project Objectives
38.   In order to improve market efficiency it is proposed (a) to
support a public marketing channel, (b) to regulate and
improve private trade and (c) to improve market intelligence.
The Project would have three basic objectives:
(a) to assure stable producer and consumer prices at a
level which provides adequate producer incentives;
(b) to reduce marketing margins; and
(c) to assure an adequate national food supply in all parts
of the country.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Major Grain Mills
(1975)       Maximum Processing        Storage capacity
(a)  Nationalized           Name                      Location              Capacity (MT p.a.)            (in MT)
(Ministry of
Commerce,
Industry &
Tourism)          Kaliti Food Products          Addis Ababa                15,000                   10,000
A. Mihos & Co.               Addis Ababa                 21,600                   2,000
Adowa Flour Mills (EGC)      Akaki                       12,480                       -
National Flour Mill andk    Addis Ababa                  30,000                   2,800
Debre Zeit Flour Mills 3    Debre Zeit
A. Mihos Flour Mills          Dire Dawa                   9,000                   2,000
Red Sea Flour Mills           Asmara                     14,300                      500 (rented)
Sub-Total                102,380                   17,300
-(b)  Private           Astron Brothers               Addis Ababa                28,800                      N.A.
Holeta Flour Mills           Holeta                       2,160                      N.A.
Abate Flour Mills            Addis Ababa                  5,475                      N.A.
Akaki Flour Mills            Akaki                        6,500                      N.A.
Nazreth Flour Mills          Nazreth                     14,400                      N.A.
Machinaziom Eritrea           Asmara                      1,820                      N.A.
Sub-Total                 59,155
Total (a & b)          161,535                   17,300
December 17, 1975.                                                                                                |
X >



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
INPUT SUPPLY
1.        The Agricultural Inputs acd Warketing Services (AIMS) came into
existence on July 89 1972 as a subsidiary company of the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank (AIDE), the major shareholder of the company. Its
authorized and paid-up capital was Birr 500,000 divided into 5,000 common
shares.  The objectives of the coapany were:
-    to import, procure, market, distribute, and sell
agricultural inputs including fertilizers, improved
seeds, insecticides, herbicides and implements;
-    to provide small farmers, Government agricultural
organizations, agricultural cooperatives, package
projects and commercial farmers with the agricul-
tural inputs on credit; and
-    to provide clients of the Agricultural and Indus-
trial Development Bank and AIMS own customers with
marketing and warehousing facilities for grains.
All powers of the company were vested in its Board of Directors composed of
representatives of:
-    The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.
-    the Miniotry of Finance
-    The Ministry of Aggiculture and Settlement
-    The Ministry of Cotmerce and Tourism
The Chairman of the Board was the Managing Director of AIDB. The company
operated as a business entity and waz intended to make profits and pay divi-
dends on its share capital.
2.        Fertilizer Woo  ae major input handled by AIMS.  The main customers
were ECODD, coordinating -he small hlder development programs, and the State
farms (previously also the private comnercial farms).  The volume of fertili-
zers handled by AIMS expanded rapidly.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Volume        Volume        Sold to         Sold to State farms/
procured (MT)   Sold (MT)       ECODD           commercial farms (MT)
(MT)
1972          4,167 1/
1973         12,750         16,822          8,915                   7,907
1974         24,250         24,343         16,239                   8,104
1975         32,887         40,485         30,893                   9,592
1976         55,000         56,404 (est.) 37,404 (est.)            19,000 (est.)
Total  138,054        138,054         93,451                  44,603
1/   Carry-over from AIDB.
Other inputs handled by AIMS were pesticides, seeds and small implements (for
ox cultivation).
3.        Input distribution has been plagued by considerable problems:  the
handling of fertilizers in port has been deficient and some damage due to
rain has occurred; bagging was inadequately checked and complaints about under-
weight bags frequent; all fertilizers were taken to Addis Ababa and some double
transport resulted; preparation at the receiving end (the marketing centers)
was often inadequate; suppliers and transporters frequently did not live up to
their contracts. The results have been late deliveries and excessive costs.
Accounting problems and late changes of plans have increased the strains and,
being separate and independent institutions, EPID and AIMS were not always
able to resolve the problems in a way that would minimize the damage.
4.        The fertilizer requirements for 1976/77 are estimated at 56,400 MT
(para. 2). The forecast for the following years is (MT):
1977/78              72,000
1978/79             86,400
1979/80             103,700
1980/81             124,400
If the average c.i.f. price during the project period were to be Birr 500 per
MT and if the price to the farmers were maintained at Birr 500 per MT then a
subsidy would be required to cover domestic handling cost Birr 251 per MT;
(Annex 4). With the requirements forecast above this would mean that the fer-
tilizer subsidy would increase from Birr 18 million in 1977 to Birr 31 million
in 1980. The requirements of other inputs during the project period are
forecast below (Birr '000):



ANNEX 2
Page 3
1977/78        1978/79         1979/80         1980/81
Seed             1,000          1,500           2,000           3,000
Pesticides       4,500          6,000           8,000           9,000
Implements       1,000          1,500           2,000           2,000
Total      6,500           9,000          12,000          14,000
5.        The responsibilities for the distribution of fertilizers, seeds,
pesticides and implements have now been transferred from AIMS to AMC. Vete-
rinary supplies are expected to be handled by the new Pharmaceutical Corporation.
Cattle, chicken and other breeding animals would not be handled by AMC but
would be distributed through the Livestock and Meat Board or other channels.
AMC may handle feed but only marginal quantities are expected to be sold
during the project period.
6.        Seed is produced by a number of institutions on an ad hoc basis:
Wheat and Barley          (CADU, Holetta)
Sorghum                   (Alemaya)
Teff                      (Debre Zeit)
Maize                     (Awassa, CADU)
In view of the high transport cost ECODD has designed a scheme to multiply
seed in the region of consumption through contract growers. The organization
of seed multiplication will ultimately be entrusted to a Seed Corporation.
For the time being the following division of labor between AMC and ECODD is
suggested.
ECODD          Procuring of base seed (domestically).  Identification
and supervision of contract growers. Cleaning and certi-
fication of the seed.
AMC            AMC would buy and distribute the seed to ECODD marketing
centers/cooperatives and State farms. AMC would also
import seed when necessary.
The ECODD tasks are expected to be transferred to the proposed Seed Corpora-
tion as and when formed.
7.        ECODD presently operates a small DDT mixing plant at Mekele but this
task is expected to revert to the Tigre Agricultural and Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation. AMC will import pesticides and raw materials for this and
other plants and distribute the pesticides to the ECODD marketing centers/
cooperatives and the State farms.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
8.        It is also necessary to clarify the relationship between AMC, ECODD
and AIDB. 1/  AMC as a new organization cannot be expected to extend suppliers'
credit to large numbers of cooperatives and individuals, only some of which
would market their produce through AMC. Ultimately, AIDE would make loans
available to cooperative societies to procure inputs from AMC. Where coope-
rative societies are not yet formed and registered (the normal case) ECODD
must continue to provide the link between the farmers and AIDB in such a way
as to facilitate the eventual transition to the cooperative stage. ECODD would
thus serve as the agent of AIDB in extending loans to farmers and/or pre-
cooperative groups of farmers. Since this credit would be in kind, AIDB (using
ECODD as its agent) would procure the inputs from AMC at the marketing centers.
AMC using working capital from the commerical banks would procure and distri-
bute the inputs to the cooperative societies, the marketing centers and the
State farms.
1/   Discussed in detail in Annex 5.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPYA
GRAIN STOCSAE AMD HAETING PROJECT
GOVERNEUNT GRAIN H&UZETING POLICY
General
1.        An outline of Governaent policy and the respective roles of the
public and private sectors In uholesale and retail trade was given in the
"Declaration on Economic Policy of Socialist Ethiopia" published on February 7,
1975 1/, which stated that:
"The Government may, where necessary, engage in wholesale
and retail business in order to stabilize prices parti-
cularly of basic consumption items, and thereby protect
the interests of the masses.
Strict control will also be exercised on the private
sector with regard to supply, prices and distribution
of goods."
2. oIn the grain marketing field, the Government's main aims are:
(a) to assure producer and consumer prices at levels
which provide adequate incentives to the producer
and at the same time safeguard consumers' interests.
(b) to assure an adequate national food supply in all
parts of the country, and
(c) to improve the efficiency of the grain marketing
system at all levelso
3.        To achieve these objectives, Government has established an Agricul-
tural Marketing Corporation (AMC), which would have a substantial share in
the e^rholesale grain trade, and has enlarged the functions of the Ethiopian
Grain Agency (EGA) so as to regulat amd supervise the private trade and
promote market improvements. Thz respective roles of AMC, the private trade
and cooperatives during the Project period are outlined below.
Wholesale Trade
4.        As indicated in Annex )i, there is a frequent blurring of functions
in the present marketing structure wYhich makes it difficult to frame a precise
definition of the term "wholesaler."  For Project purposes, it would be assumed
1/   This policy has been fuTther elaborated in Proclamation 76 of 1975 on
"Commercial Activities undertaken by the Private Sector" (Appendi 1).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
that a "wholesale trader" is defined as one who engages in stockholding for
distribution either later in the season and/or in another region and whose
operations and/or resources exceed certain minima (to be prescribed by the
licensing authority - para 7).
5.        As it handles the output of State Farms, grain imports and the
growing production from MPP areas, AMC will have a substantial and increasing
share of total marketed volume of grain, oilseeds and pulses. Because of
the nationalization of some private storage and the elimination of substandard
facilities (para. 15) the capacity in private trade will be reduced to about
500,000 MT which is expected to be fully utilized.
6.        Through its substantial share of wholesaling operations, AMC will
be able to exercise a controlling influence over basic prices and help
promote the price stability that is one of Government's main aims (para 2).
Proposed price policy guidelines are set out in Annex 4. Improvements in
crop forecasting and market information services detailed in Annexes 10 and
11 should enable AMC to plan its strategy for appropriate interregional trans-
fers of stocks to assure proper distribution of supplies, as well as holding
stocks to meet consumer demand until the next season's harvest comes in.
7.        In order to ensure that the activities of wholesalers complement
the policy and operations of AMC, strict control over wholesale trade would
be needed. This would be achieved by requiring major wholesalers to be
licensed by EGA under the conditions set out in Annex 9, covering storage
standards and hygiene, the maintenance of stock registers and rendering of
returns as required by EGA.
Intermediate Trade
8.        Private traders will continue to operate as intermediaries in the
present marketing chain between the producer and the terminal markets. Simi-
larly the private retailer will provide the link between the wholesale market
and the consumer. But in order to improve the efficiency of the operations
of this private sector, EGA has been given extended powers and resources to
assist local authorities to strengthen their regulation of private traders
and to make market infrastructure improvements as outlined in Annex 9.
9.        At the same time, AMC will provide an alternative marketing channel
which would operate in competition with the intermediate private trade in
certain areas. Marketing centers established by ECODD would act as agents
of AMC for the purchase from producers of their cereal, oilseed and pulse
productions (Annex 5). The relations of these marketing centers with AMC
after they become fully fledged cooperatives would be as described in the
next section of this annex. During the Project period AMC would also provide
all fertilizer inputs and market all cereals, pulses and oilseeds produced
on State Farms including those created by nationalization of private commer-
cial farming enterprises (Annex 6).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Role of Cooperatives
100       To help ensure that the promotion of cooperatives is coordinated
with agriculvural development, the Cooperative Department (previously part
of the Ministry of National Community Development and Social Affairs) has
been transferred to EPID (the Extension and Project Implementation Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture) which was renamed ECODD.
110       When they reach a sufficient stage of development, marketing centers
in MPP areas would be registered as primary cooperative societies and at that
stage would be free to market their grain, oilseeds and pulses either through
AMC  or private channels.  ECODD would retain responsibility for registering such
cooperatives, auditing their accounts, and providing them with technical
assistance (in bookkeeping, marketing of other crops, etc.).
12.       Multipurpose cooperatives concerned with such matters as input
distribution, credit and output marketing would normally be expected to cover
3-10 peasant associations to ensure the viability of the society. Where such
cooperatives are established in areas not yet covered by the AMC marketing
channel, the possibilities of establishing special links between the coopera-
tive and the nearest AMC branch would be explored.
13.       Establishment of Awraja (district) level of secondary unions of
service cooperatives is foreseen, but during the Project period these unions
are not expected to handle any grain marketing or input distribution opera-
tions.  At some development projects, such as the Chilalo Agricultural Develop-
ment Unit (CADU) and the Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit (WADU), marketing
organizations exist which have become or will develop into secondary coopera-
tive unions serving the Project area. These marketing organization/secondary
cooperatives will continue to handle both input distribution and produce
marketing and would act as a link between AMC and primary societies in such
Project areas.
Conclusions
140       Having been created by merging the Ethiopian Grain Corporation
(EGC) and the Agricultural Inputs and Marketing Service (AIMS), AMC would
receive additional resources under the Project (Annex 8) to carry out its
tasks0 It is not presently intended that AMC should become either a coopera-
tively owned organization or a produce marketing board, but rather that it
should be the agency for the implementation of government policies conceived
in the national interest. Its handling of input distribution should help
reduce AMC's unit overhead costs.
15.       In absolute terms, the capacity of private wholesale trade will
be about 500,000 MT during the Project period after the nationalization of



ANNEX 3
Page 4
about 100,000 MT of unused or rented storage under proclamation 47 of 1975 on
"Government Ownership of Urban Lands and Extra Urban Houses" and after the
elimination of about 50,000 MT (10%) of substandard storage facilities
(para. 7). The private trader would continue to be the main intermediary
between producers and wholesale markets and similarly, retailing functions
would remain mainly in private hands. AMC's proposed activities in produce
buying are restricted to incremental volumes involved.
16.       The justification for the adoption of this mixed Government/private
marketing system includes:
(a) In the short-run much can be done to regulate
and supervise the private trade (see Annex 9).
With minimal investment, many Government policies
can be carried out relatively cheaply by licencing
and control. This would allow Ethiopia to take
advantage of its existing decentralized private
grain network in a cost effective manner.
(b) The private trade would provide a basis measure or
standard upon which to judge AMC's marketing margins.
This should provide a rough measure of AMC's opera-
ting efficiency. If AMC costs diverge sharply from
those of the private trade, it would be a warning
that a closer look is required to correct any ineffi-
ciencies that have developed in MIC operating pro-
cedures.
(c)  An active private trade would also provide a form of
market intelligence for AMC. Private stock changes,
forward buying and price movements would give AMC
an indication of how the trade judges future crop
and price prospects. To carry out this function, the
trade must have the necessary freedom of action.
The EGA market intelligence service (Annex 10) would
monitor private trade stocks and prices. Actions by
private traders would be one of the inputs in EGA's
Crop/Prices forecasting system.
(d) During the Project period, the ECODD and cooperative
marketing centers would be operating in competition
with the private trade in an increasing number of TPP
areas but not in non-NIPP areas. Outside the selected
IPP areas the traditional private traders will be the
sole buyers. Much of their business will consist of
assembling small lots from scattered villages or



ANNEX 3
Page 5
farmers, and moving the grain to market places where
the grain would be sold to either AMC or private whole-
salers. The ECODD marketing centers will be located
along roads in major grain producing areas. For AMC
to service the hinterland would be administratively
and financially very costly and for the foreseeable
future this function would be left to the private
trade. Transport and assembly costs very greatly
from region to region outside ]PP areas, but AMC
would be able to exercise a stabilizing influence
on producer prices through its purchase prices at
-ECODD marketing centere, where it would be ready
to buy the grain produced outside MPP areas either
from individual farmers, peasant associations,
private traders or cooperatives. The major objectives
can thus be achieved without overestimating AMC's mana-
gerial capacity.
17.       For the private trader to carry out his role, he must know what the
Government policy is and within what framework he is required to operate. 1/
Within such limits, the private trader should be encouraged to perform the
functions allotted to him, e.g., he should be assured access to long-term
credit for investment in improvements and short-term credit for working capital.
Foreign Trade
18.       Government has established an Export-Import Corporation under the
Ministry of National Resources and Development, which will handle Government
to Government trade operations and also compete with private exporters in
other foreign trade fields, with the aim of ensuring that the producer receives
the highest possible price where agricultural exports are concerned. However,
AMC is solely responsible for arranging authorized imports of grain to assure
national food supplies (Annex 7). In making these imports, AMC may utilize
the services of the Export-Import Corporation on an agency basis for specific
shipping and forwarding operations involved.
19.       AMC also has the sole responsibility for the import and distribution
of fertilizers and insecticides to State Farms and MPP areas, and has taken
over the staff and facilities of AIMS previously engaged in these operations.
20.       For exports of oilseeds and pulses purchased by AMC from State farms
and through the ECODD marketing channel, AMC may either
(a) deal directly with foreign buyers and handle all
export operations itself or use either the Export-
Import Corporation or private exporters as its
agents; or
1I   See Proclamation 76 of 1975, Op. cit.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) sell to the Export-Import Corporation (e.g., to meet
part of a barter trade transaction); or
(c) sell through private exporters, who will continue to
be subject to regulation and control by EGA.
If and when AMC decides to undertake all export operations itself, it would
need specialized storage, grading and cleaning facilities, as well as expe-
rienced staff. For this reason, in the initial stages, when the first
priority would be the establishment of its major activities, it is considered
more likely that ANC would adopt the alternatives at (b) and (c) above.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
PROCLAMATION RELATING TO COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITIES WHICH MAY BE UNDERTAKEN
BY THE PRIVATE SECTOR
"ETHIOPIA TIKDEM"
WHEREAS, it has been provided in the Declaration on Economic Policy
of Socialist Ethiopia and in the Government Ownership and Control of the Means
of Production Proclamation that certain activities be left to the private sector,
and;
WHEREAS, it is the duty of the Government to determine and regulate
such activities;
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with Article 6 of *the Definition of
Powers of the Provisional Military Administration Council and its Chairman
Proclamation No. 2/1974, it is hereby proclaimed as follows:
1.   Short Title
This-Proclamation may be cited as the "Proclamation Relating to
Commercial Activities undertaken by the Private Sector, Proclamation
No. 76/1975".
2.   Scope of this Proclamation
This Proclamation shall not apply to:
1/   any individual enterpriser or business organization
which lawfully carries on commercial activity on the
effective date of this Proclamation;
2/   construction work, surface transport, inland water
transport, the publishing of newspapers and magazines.
3.   Definitions
In this Proclamation, unless the context otherwise requires:
1/   "Capital" shall mean cash used for carrying out com-
mercial activity, the value of trade receivable, of stock
and of fixed assets, but does not include buildings.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
2/   "License" shall mean a license issued pursuant to the
Industrial Licence Proclamation (Proclamation No.
292/1971), the Foreign Trade Proclamation (Proclamation No.
293/1971) or the Domestic Trade Proclamation (Proclamation
No. 293/1971) or the Domestic Trade Proclamation (Proclama-
tion No. 294/1971).
3/   "Minister" shall mean the Minister of Commerce and Industry.
4/   "Ministry" shall mean the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
5/   "Commercial activity" shall mean trade or industrial activity.
4.   General Provisions
1/   No licence as wholesaler, retailer, importer, exporter, service
dispenser, domestic or foreign trade auxiliary, industrial owner
shall be issued to a person who has a permanent job.
2/   No person shall obtain more than one licence nor possess more
than one business or establish a branch. Only one licence may
be issued to a commercial agent, a commercial broker or a
commission agent for his respective activity.
3/   A commercial activity shall be carried on only by an indi-
vidual enterpriser.
4/   The Minister may, for the purpose of ensuring the proper
distribution of goods and services to the consumer, limit
the number of licences to be issued in certain areas.
5.   Wholesaler
1/   The capital of a wholesaler shall not exceed three hundred
thousand (300,000) dollars.
2/   Sub-article (1) of this Article and sub-article (2) of
Article 4 shall not apply to wholesalers of agricultural
products, hides and skins.
6.   Retailer
The capital of a retailer shall not exceed two hundred thousand
(200,000) dollars.
7.   Foreign Trade
The Minister may waive the restriction of sub-article (2) of
Article 4 in respect of export and import trade.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
8.   Industry
1/   The capital in the private sector of an industry
shall not exceed five hundred thousand (500,000)
dollars.
2/   The Minister may waive the restrictions of sub-
article (2) of Article 4 in respect of industrial
activity.
3/   Notwithstanding sub-article (3) of Article 4, an
industrial activity may be carried on by general
partnership whose members shall not exceed five and
who actively participate in the carrying out of its
activity.
9.   Dispenser of Service
Where a service requires spec'ial qualifications, the Minister
shall ascertain whether the applicant has met the require-
ments.
10.   Delegation
The Minister may delegate his power to other Government
authorities for the proper implementation of this Proclama-
tion.
11.   Article 3 of the Domestic Trade Proclamation
The provisio to sub-article (1) of Article 3 of the Domestic
Trade Proclamation (Proclamation No. 294/1971) is hereby deleted.
12.   Regulations
The Minister may issue regulations for the proper carrying
out of this Proclamation.
13.   Penalty
Any person who contraveness this Proclamation of regulations
issued hereunder is punishable, upon conviction, with fine
up to ten thousand (10,000) dollars or with imprisonment
up to two (2) years or with both.
14.   Effective Date
This proclamation shall come into force on the date of its
publication in the Negarit Gazeta.
Done at Addis Ababa, this 29th day of December, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
PRICE POLICY
A. General Policy
1.        It appears likely that, even under normal growing conditions, Ethiopia
will have to import grain during the next few years (Annex 7). Since world
market prices are forecast to remain considerably above the present domestic
price level, without intervention there would be an upward pressure on domestic
prices. However, in a very good year, a domestic surplus may develop and the
resultant fall in prices, if unchecked, could destroy the incentive to pro-
ducers to use recommended yield increasing inputs on which the expansion of
grain output so largely depends.
2.        One of the main aims of Government policy in the grain marketing
field is to assure producer and consumer prices at levels which provide ade-
quate incentives to the producer and at the same time safeguard consumers'
interests (Annex 3). To achieve this aim, Government has taken the first
steps towards the operation of a system providing "floors" and "ceilings"
to limit price variations for the major grains. The alternative of a fully-
fledged Marketing Board with monopoly buying powers and operating a fixed
price system is not feasible because of the rudimentary character and inherent
weaknesses of the present marketing system and the drain on resources that
creation of a Marketing Board would involve.
3.        The main instrument of Government marketing policy is the Agricul-
tural Marketing Corporation (AMC) (Annex 8) handling the output of State
farms, the incremental marketed production from MPP areas and grain imports.
By 1980/81 AMC would account for some 45 percent of total wholesale trade
and so be in a position to influence the market price through its price and
stock holding operations.
4.        The main principles on which Government price policy is based
are:
(a) the price paid to producers is to be maintained at a
level which would give farmers' adequate production
incentives, taking into account costs of production
and marketing.
(b) to protect the interest of consumers, Government is to
fix an upper limit to price variations. To make this
effective, deficiencies in domestic supplies would
have to be made good by imports which at prevailing
relative prices would involve Government subsidies.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c) these upper and lower price limits are not to be
published because they would be based on weak data
both as to crop forecasting and market intelligence
and may have to be revised within a season. Publi-
cation in such circumstances would not provide any
valid guarantee to the producers and would be more
likely to serve the interests of private speculators
and undermine the position of AMC under the mixed
trading system in which it will be operating.
(d) AMC's price, stock holding and stock movement opera-
tions aim at making the price limits effective, thus
eliminating the need for any official price control.
(e) a system of geographical price variations operates
for both purchases of grain and sales of inputs,
mostly fertilizer. This has been the established
practice under the previous free marketing system
and is in consequence well understood. To operate
in the interests of equity a system of uniform
prices would be difficult and costly and likely to
lead to distortions in production and produce flows.
The aims of equity would, it is considered, be best
achieved through fiscal measures, such as a variable
land tax that favored the remoter areas.
Determination of price limits for cereals
(a) Lower price limit (i.e. safeguarding producer incentive)
5.        Although increased attention in the extension work will be directed
towards the improvement of agronomic practices (soil preparation, manuring,
spacing, weeding, etc.) the main opportunity to increase yields is presently,
and is likely to remain, the expanded use of fertilizers and improved seeds.
Assuming the incremental domestic production resulting from the expansion of
fertilizer use would replace imports from abroad, it would be correct to
value this production at the price of such imports delivered to Addis Ababa
(import parity price, Annex 1). The value of the use of fertilizers to the
economy would then presently be:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Maize     Wheat    Sorghum
Incremental yield from fertilizer use
qt/ha 1/                                            16.1       3.5        4.1
Import parity price Birr/qt 2/                        47        51         45
Gross value of incremental production
Birr/ha                                            757       179        185
Cost of unsubsidized fert. to farmers
Birr/ha 3/                                         105        75         75
Benefit/cost ratio to economy                          7.2        2.4       2.5
1/   Average from crop sampling 1973/74 and 1974/75.
2/   Based on average prices January - September, 1975.
3/   Based on fertilizer quotations September, 1975.
These figures suggest that the use of fertilizers in maize production is
especially favorable and such use should therefore be given special encourage-
ment.
6.        To indicate a procedure that could be followed to arrive at lower
price limits a series of tables have been included in the succeeding para-
graphs, but it is emphasized that these must be regarded as illustrative
only.
7.        On the assumptions that:
(a) the minimum average benefit/cost ratio to provide
sufficient incentive to fertilizer use is 1.5:1.
(b) because it constitutes a special case a benefit/cost
ratio of 2.5:1 would be applied to maize.
(c) fertilizer prices to peasant farmers would be main-
tained at their present (subsidized) level of
Birr 50 per quintal.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
The following minimum producer prices would be then required:
Teff     Wheat      Barley     Maize      Sorghum
Fertilizer cost
Birr/ha                  50         50        50          75          50
Average benefit/cost
ratio to farmers          1.5        1.5       1.5         2.5         1.5
Required gross return
Birr/ha                  75         75        75         188          75
Incremental yield 1/
qt/ha                     2.6        3.5       3.4        16.1         4.1
Necessary minimum
producer price
Birr/qt.                 28.8       21.4      22.1        11.7        18.3
91  (rounded)         29        21         14 2/       12          18
1/   Average from EPID crop sampling 1973/74 and 1974/75.
2/   The crop sampling result of 3.4 implies that fertilizer use would become
economic only at a price which exceeds that for wheat. The lower tole-
rance limit for barley has therefore been fixed in relation to the wheat
price which in turn means that fertilization would be uneconomic at
average incremental yields.
8.        If the above producer prices are assumed to apply to the main pro-
ducing areas which are on average 200 km from Addis Ababa, then allowing for
the costs involved (para. 20) a margin of Birr 7.00 would need to be added
to arrive at Addis Ababa wholesale market lower price limits. In the
following table, these Addis Ababa wholesale market lower price limits are
set out alongside annual average wholesale prices for the nine years 1966 -
1974:
Addis Ababa Wholesale Prices
Commodity              Illustrative                Annual
lower price               Averages
limit               1966   -   1974
Teff                       36                 25.6  -   37.3
Wheat                      28                  29.1  -   31.7
Barley                     21                 13.1  -   22.5
Maize                       19                 12.4  -   21.2
Sorghum                    25                  15.3  -   28.7



ANNEX 4
Page 5
The illustrative lower price limits may thus be said to be in line with
historical price series.
Upper price limit (i.e. safeguarding consumers' interests)
9.        The upper price limit is determined by Government's willingness to
subsidize imports when these are necessary to supplement domestic supplies
and keep down prices to the consumer. The major factor in deciding the
level of subsidy in any given season is the cost to Government and the
financial implications of different subsidy policies are discussed in
Annex 7. But it is also necessary to ensure that the "spread" between
upper and lower price levels is reasonable for if this spread were too
narrow, unduly frequent interventions would become necessary. To be able
to absorb minor deviations in forecast supply and demand, to counter variations
in private sales and to allow differentiation of different qualities a minimum
spread of Birr 5.00 per quintal has been taken for illustrative purposes. On
this basis, the upper and lower price limits would be:
Addis Ababa Wholesale Market
Lower               Upper
limit               limit
Teff                           36                  41
Wheat                          28                  33
Barley                         21                  26
Maize                          19                  24
Sorghum                       25                   30
In practice, upper and lower price limits would have to be fixed for the
major categories of each commodity that are commonly traded, so the list would
be longer. It should be noted that the price limits above are those fixed
at the opening of the season and would be adjusted at monthly intervals
(para. 24). 1/
Given that the import parity price for wheat is Birr 50 per quintal, that in
an import situation the domestic price level is likely to be at the upper
tolerance limit and that the imports occur later in the season when this limit
has been adjusted to Birr 36 per quintal, a subsidy of the order of Birr 14 per
quintal, would be implied under the above example.
1/ The new price policy was introduced for the 1975/76 marketing season
(Appendix 1).



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Pricing of o; .o.n  and pulses
10        Ethiopia is normally an exporter of pulses and oilseeds (Annex 1)
although during the Project period, these exports are projected to decline as
production, particularly on State.farms, is switched to food crops. However,
AMC would continue the practice of the free market and establish its prices
for pulses and oiloeeds on an export parity price basis. Should particularly
favorable  Torld market conditions develop for any one crop, Government may
impose a cooa tn  lvlo funds for a stabilization fund to finance subsidies
when world maTkat prices fall. The establishment of a stabilization fund for
all export crops is under investigation.
Pricing of Inputs
11.       As indicated above, the average price to the peasant farmer of DAP
and Urea is expected to be retained at about .Birr 50_per quintal to encourage
domestic grain production. Consideration will be given to the reintroduction
of a differentiation in the prices for fertilizers with different nutritional
content I/ and to establish some geographical price variation for major zones
in view of the transport costs. Without such a variation the comparative
advantage of different crops in different parts of the country will be dis-
torted and transport costs substantially increased.
Pricing policy procedure
12.       On the basis of the above principles for AMC pricing the Government
would conduct an annual review of and decide on the price limits and the
fertilizer subsidy in the light of price developments on the world market,
import requirements and the budgetary situation. Once the limits have been
fixed, the Government vould undertake to reimburse AMC for necessary grain
imports by the difference between the actual import cost and the prevailing
upper tolerance limit. If import requirements have been overestimated, the
surplus will have to be stored by AMC until the next season, in which case
AMC will need to be compensated for its carrying costs and any loss on sales
of these remaining stocks. Similarly, AMC would be compensated in connection
with the importation of fertilizers by the difference between actual import
and sales costs on the one hand and the decided sales price to the farmers.
The execution of Government's grain (oilseeds and pulses) marketing and price
policy would then be the sole responsibility of AMC.
B. AMC Price and Stockholding Policies
General
13.       AMC hae a dual role in grain marketing.  On the one hand, it provides
the marketing channel for the output of State farms, for the growing production
from MPP areas and for imports; thus handling a significant portion of the
total quantity of grain entering the wholesale trade. Its second function
1/   Some differentiation was introduced in 1976 but does not fully
reflect quality differences,



ANNEX 4
Page 7
is to use its position as the major wholesaler in a market system where the
balance is handled by private traders to reduce price fluctuations through
the operation of the flexible system of price limits of which the principles
have been outlined in Section A.
14.       Through its stockholding and stock movement operations, AMC should
be able to make the price limits effective. On the basis of crop forecasting
(Annex 11), at successive stages during the growing season revised estimates
of production would be used to check on import needs. A good harvest (no
imports) would imply Addis Ababa (Asmara) wholesale prices at or close to
the lower limit, while forecasts of a poor harvest would mean that the post-
harvest prices will be approaching the upper limit. As the season progresses
and more information becomes available, the prices of course would be adjusted
accordingly. If prices tend to exceed the upper limits, AMC will release stocks
and if time allows, increase imports. If on the other hand, prices tend to
fall below the established minimum levels, the Corporation would cease selling
and accumulate stocks. The latter situation would be unusual since Ethiopia
is expected to face an import situation during the Project period. However,
facilities for buffer stocking (security reserves) when established would
allow a 50,000 MT carry-over in case of a bumper crop.
Branch Office Wholesale Prices
15.       Since wholesale prices at most other main markets are determined
by the Addis Ababa level, the price ranges at AMC branches would be established
by deducting the cost of transport in the case of "exports" to Addis Ababa and
adding the cost of transport in the case of "imports" from the capital. To a
lesser extent, the Asmara wholesale price level acts as the price determinant
within its "catchment area".  The resultant price structure in any one month
following AMC's fixing of its wholesale price levels for Addis Ababa and
Asmara is illustrated by the following example (for a certain crop, variety
and grade).



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Wholesale          Wholesale         Retail           Buying
Branch            Export             Import          Selling  2/   100 km away
Level 1/           Level  1/                      from Branch 3/
Addis Ababa       X  4/              X            X + 3.00             X = 6.00
Nazareth          X-l.00             X+l.00      (.+1.00)+3.00   (X+1.00)-6.00
Shashamene        X-2.50             X+2.50      (X+2.50,)+3.00   (X+2.50)-6.00
Jimma             X-3.35             X+3.35      (X+3.35)+3.00   (X+3.35)-6.00
Dire Dawa         X-5.29             X+5.29      (X+5.29)+3.00   (X+5.29)-6.00
Lekempt           X-3.22             X+3.22      (X+3.22)+3.00   (X+3.22)-6.00
Debre Markos      X-3,05             X+3.05      (X+-3.05)+3.00   (X+-3,05)-6.00
Dessie            X-4.00             X+4.00      (X+4.00)+3.00   (X+4.00)-6.00
Mekelle           X-7.62             X+7.62      (X+7.62)+3.00   (X+7.62)-6.00
Y-2.97             Y+2.97      (Y+2.97)+3.00   (Y+2.97)-6.00
Asmara            Y                  Y            Y+3.00           Y-6.00
1/  "Export" means movement from a branch to Addis Ababa (Asmaara).
"Import" means movement from Addis Ababa (Asmara) to a branch.
2/ See Para. 23.
3/ See Para. 20.
4/  Wholesale price in Addis Ababa for a given month.
5/ Wholesale price in Asmara for a given month.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
If the regional price tends to exceed the above mentioned upper limit of the
range, local stocks should be released and/or additional supplies brought in,
while in the opposite situation sales would be discontinued and stocks
possibly exported to nearest deficit area.
16.       The Asmara wholesale price would also be fixed within the price
limits but, due to the deficit nature of the area, may almost always be at the
upper limit. If sufficient grain should not be forthcoming from Asmara in-
fluence area (area within which it is more profitable to send towards Asmara
than to Addis Ababa) and the rest of the country has asurplus, then the
Government must either allow the Asmara price to exceed the upper limit
or AMC has to be compensated separately for transfers to Asmara (Birr 10.79
minus difference X - Y). As long as Ethiopia is a net importer of grain,
sufficient imports would be directed to Asmara via Massawa.
Operational Margins
17.       AMC would need to calculate operational margins for the following
main types of grain trade operations:
(a) purchases at ECODD marketing centers/cooperative
societies
(b) purchases from State farms
(c) import purchases, including subsidy element
(d) seasonal storage
These operational margins would have to be fixed at levels that ensure full
cost coverage, including interest on fixed capital, depreciation and a risk
element.
18.       For this purpose, overheads must first be determined and then
allocated between the operations concerned. On the basis of estimated costs
for 1980/81 1/ (the last year of the Project period), AMC's overheads would
be as follows:
1/   Price contingencies have been neglected in this example to simplify
calculations.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
AMC Overhead Costs 1980/81
Birr'000
Operating costs HQ and branches
(exclu. retail shops)                             6,429 Annex 8, Table 8
Interest on capital cost of buildings
and equipment (1OZ)                               4,091 Annex 8, Table 13
Risk Margin                                           760 Nominal figure
Depreciation of buildings and
equipment                                         1,720 Annex 8, Table 13
Subtotal                 13,000
Less specific overheads for
seasonal storage (para. 24)                    4,347
buffer stocking  (para. 25)                      532
sale of inputs   (para. 27)                      711
Subtotal                  5,590
TOTAL                     7j410
19.       No firm basis for distributing these remaining overheads between the
different activities presently exists. The suggestion below is thus a rough
estimation based on subjective impressions of the efforts required in the
conduct of the different activities.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Share of Overhead            Birr
% Birr '000    Volume MT    per MT
Buying and wholesaling of grain           45   3,335      400,000       8.34
Importing and wholesaling of grain        15   1,112      100,000      11.12
Seasonal storage                          10     741      170,000 1/   4.36
Retailing                                  5     370       92,690       3.99
Buffer stocking                            5     370       50,000       7.40
Buying and selling inputs                 20   1,482      137,000      10.82
TOTAL               100   7,410
1/   On average 34% of volume bought (Annex 8, Table 11).
(a)  Determination of buying prices at ECODD marketing centers/cooperative
societies
20.       The producer prices would be established for each MPP area in
relation to the actual cost of buying and transporting the produce and would
be fixed for a month at a time. ECODD would be reimbursed for the cost of
operating the marketing centers at a price per MT bought, calculated on a
basis giving full cost coverage at optimal utilization of the center (Annex 5,
para. 7). The price for a specific MPP area would be established by deducting
the following costs from the wholesale price prevailing at the nearest AMC
branch office.
Variable costs:                                      Birr/MT
Bagging and stitching                             2.50
Loading and unloading                             3.00
ECODD MC costs                                  25.00
Interest on working capital (1 month)            2.50
Transport to AMC branch office
(e.g., 100 km)                                10.00
Bag                                              4.00
AMC overheads (para. 19)                               8.34
TOTAL                      55.34



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Allowing an additional 100 km for transport to Addis Ababa, the cost would be
Birr 65 per MT. The comparable historical margin in private trade is estimated
at Birr 64 but recent inflation is likely to have increased this margin to
Birr 70. There are likely to be some variations in these costs as between
crops but these would only be of a minor character.
(b) Purchases from State Farms 1/
21.       There the same costs as in (a) would apply with the exception of
the ECODD marketing center charge. Where State farms performed some of the
services involved the margin would be further reduced and AMC's purchase
price correspondingly increased.
(c) Import operations
22.       The import parity price would be determined by the c.i.f. price
and the cost of bringing the grain to the wholesale market. An estimate of
the parity price for wheat can be derived as follows:
Birr/MT
Pricee f.o.b. U.S. ports 1/                             274
Ocean freight                                           76
Port charges                                            14
Handling charges                                        40
Transport to Addis Ababa                                60
Interest (4 months 10%)                                 10
Local Bank charges (3%)                                 10
AMC overheads (para. 19)                                11
Import parity price                    495
1/   Forecast 1980 price (in constant dollars).
In an import situation, the domestic wholesale price is likely to be at the
upper price level and the difference between this level and the import
parity price would normally determine the subsidy that Government would have
to pay to AMC (para 12).
(d) Seasonal Storage
23.       The prices of grain, including the upper and lower price limits,
would have to be adjusted upward to allow for storage costs which would be
determined along the following lines:



ANNEX 4
Page 13
Birr per
Variable Costs                                           MT and Month
Loading and unloading                                  0.50
Interest on stocks (1 month, 10%)                      2.50
Loss in storage (2% per year)                          0.50
TOTAL                             3.50
Specific AMC costs                                         Birr '000
Warehouses
Depreciation:   3% of capital cost 1/                    690
Interest        10% of capital cost                   2,301
Maintenance      1% of capital cost                      230
Storage equipment
Depreciation:  10% of capital cost                        51
Interest    :  10% of capital cost                        51
Maintenance :   5% of capital cost                        25
Pest Control                                                397
Insurance          (stocks and buildings)                   207
Physical contingencies (10%)                            395
Cost per year                                         4,347
Cost per month                                          362
On average inventory of 34% or 170,000 MT specific AMC storage costs would
be Birr 2.13 MT per month.
Birr per
Summary of Seasonal Storage Costs                        MT & Month
Variable costs                                         3.50
Storage specific AMC costs                             2.13
AMC overheads (para. 19; 4.36 - 12)                    0.36
TOTAL                             5.99
1/                                                        Birr'000
Value     Balance (133/151 x Birr 8,700,000)          7,663
Construction       (Birr 70 x 242,000 MT)            16,840
Less:  Depreciation                                 - 1,489
23,014



ANNEX 4 -
Page 14
The cost for six months would be Birr 36 per MT which compares with a
historic margin in private trade of Birr 32, which has probably increased
to Birr 35 as a result of recent inflation. The relatively high AMC costs
are due to the low utilization of the storage facilities in an import situa-
tion. However, by 1980, the average inventory would rise from 34% to 40% as
domestic supplies replace imports and as a result AMC's monthly costs would
be reduced to Birr 5.75 per MT per month or Birr 34.50 per MT for a six-month
period.
Buffer Stocking Operations
24.       Under the project 50,000 MT of additional storage would be cons-
tructed and intended eventually for security food reserves but it is possible
that, in an exceptional growing year which gave rise to a domestic surplus
these facilities would be used to carry-over the accumulated stocks for sale in
the following year. Before authorizing any such limited buffer stocking ope-
rations, Government would need to examine the financial costs involved. On
the assumption that Ethiopia experiences such exceptional harvests only once
in four years and that the facilities are only used once in that period, AMC's
specific costs have to be calcualted on a four-year basis as in the following
example:



ANNEX 4
Page 15
Specific AMC Costs for Buffer Stocking             Blrr '000
Warehouses
Depreciation:       3% of capital cost 1/         99
Interest:          10% of capital cost           330
Maintenance:        1% of capital cost            33
Insurance:          0.3% of capital cost          10
Guarding                                          12
Physical Contingencies  (10%)                     48
532
Birr
Cost per MT and year                            10.64
Cost per MT and 4 years                         42.56
Variable Costs                                       Birr/MT
Loading  - unloading                             3.00
Interest on stocks (12 months, 10%)             30.00
Insurance of stocks (0.3%)                       0.90
Storage loss (2%)                                6.00
Fumigation                                       1.00
Seasonal storage (6 months atBirr 3.00) 2/   18.00
TOTAL    58.90
Total Buffer Stocking Costs                          Birr MT
Specific AMC Costs (4 years)                    42.56
Variable costs                                  58.9n
AMC overheads  (4 x 7.40, para. 19)             29.60
131.06
Birr '000
1/   Construction (Birr 70 x 50,000 MT)                     j3,50- 0
Less Depreciation  (50/494 x Birr 1,962.000)            -199
3,301
2/   Assuming the grain is s.ought in Yarch and sold 'n September thme
following year.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
Authorized buffer stocks would have to be accounted for separately in AMC's
books and their cost would be shown as AMC's average purchase price plus
carrying charges (Birr 131 per MT in the above example). On authorizing
their release, Government would pay AMC the difference between this buffer
stock cost price and its selling price. At current price levels, this
difference is likely to be considerably less than the cost of subsidising
imports.
25.       The annual cost of carrying permanent security reserves amounts to
Birr 59 per MT and is made up as follows:
Birr
per MT
Specific costs for one year                     10.64
Variable costs                                  40.90
AMC overheads                                    7.40
58.94
These costs may be increased if losses due to price variations are made in
the regular replacement of old stocks with fresh grain.
Input Pricing
26.       AMC's selling price would need to be calculated for different inputs
but the following example refers to DAP (Annex 2).



ANNEX 4
Page 17
AMC: Determination of Selling
Price for DAP
Specific AMC Costs:                                             Birr '000
Warehouses
Depreciation:   3% of capital costs 1/                   143
Interest        10% of capital costs                     433
Maintenance :   1% of capital costs                       43
Insurance   : 0.3% of capital costs                       14
Guarding                                                  13
Physical contingencies (10%)                              65
711
Cost per MT                                                     5.19
Variable costs                                                 Birr
Stevedoring                                                10
Local Bank charges (3%)                                    21
Loading-unloading and transportation (1100 km)            113
Interest (10%; 6 months on c.i.f. price)                   35
179
Total Wholesale Selling Margin
BirriMT
Specific AMC costs                   5
Variable costs                     179
AMC overheads (para 19)             11
195
AIDB would need to add coverage for the following costs before selling to the
farmers via ECODD marketing centers/cooperative societies.
1/                                                        Birr'000
Balance               (18/151 x Birr 8,700,000)        1,037
Construction          (Birr 70 x 51,000 MT)            3,570
Less:  Depreciation  (69/494 x Birr 1,962,000)         - 274
Total             4,333



ANNEX 4
Page 18
Birr/MT
Marketing centers/ coop societies
adm. costs                            25
Bad debt charge
80% credit sales
25% downpayment
5% bad debts                         15
Turn over tax                           10
Unsold carryover (10% interest;
10% of volume)                         5
Relocation of fert.  (10%; 50 km)        1
56
If the c.i.f. price Assab is Birr 500, the real cost of fertilizer delivered
to the farmer would be Birr 751 per MT. If the Government decided to maintain
the average price to the farmer at Birr 500, it would have to pay AMC a subsidy
of Birr 251 per MT to allow the Corporation to sell DAP to AIDB at Birr 444
per MT.
Accounting Implications
27.       The examples quoted above have been based on the best available data
but must necessarily be regarded as illustrative. It would be essential for
AMC to develop a proper cost accounting system that not only permits separation
of costs and charges according to type of operation (particularly necessary
where claims for Government subsidy are involved), but also provides for a
progressive improvement and refinement of the basis of the calculation. It is
for this reason that key staff in the establishment of a proper cost account-
ing system for AMC have been appointed and funded under the Project.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Addis Ababa Wholesale Prices 1975/76
Dec.-
Type of grain                        Feb.           March         April           May           June           July          Aug.          Sept.         Oct.           Nov.
1.  1st White Teff (Magnal                41-44          41-44          42-45         42-45          43-46         44-47          44-47         44-47          44-47         45-48
2.  2nd White Teff (White)                 36-39         36-39          37-40         37-40          38-41         38-41          39-42         39-42          39-42          40-43
3.  Mixed Teff (sergegna)                  32-35         32-35          32-35         33-36          34-37         35-38          36-39         36-39          36-39          37-40
4.  Red Teff                               27-30         28-31          29-32         30-33          31-34         32-35          32-35         31-34          31-34          32-35
5   1st White Wheat (Magna)                31-34         31-34          31_34         32-35          32-35         33-36          33-36         34-37          34-37          35-38
6   2nd White Wheat (White)               26-29          26-29          26-29         27-30          27-30         28-31          28-31         30-33          29-32         28-31
7. All other Wheat Except
Black wheat                           24-27          24-27         25-28          25-28         25-28          26-29         26-29          26-29         25-28          25-28
8.  Rlack wheat                           22-25          22-25          23-26         23-26         24-27          24-27          25-28         25-28          24-27         23-26
9. 351dhite Barley (Magna)                24-27          25-28          26-29         27-30          28-31         29-32          30-33         31-34          30-33         28-31
10  Other Barley                          19-22          19-22          20-23         20-23         21-24          21-24          22-25         22-25          21-24         20-23
11. White Sorghums                        26-29          26-29          27-30         27-30         28-31          29-32          30-33         30-33          29-32         28-31
12. Other Sorghums                        21-24          21-24         22-25          22-25         23-26          23-26         24-27          24-27          23-26         23-26
13  Finger Millet                         16-19          16-19          17-20         18-21          19-22         20-23          19-22         18-21          18 21         18-21
14. Maize                                 16-19          17-20          18-21         18-21          19-22         19-22          20-23         20-23          19-22         18-21
15. Nuge                                  35-38          37-40          39-42         41-44         43-46          45-48          43-46         41-44          39-42         37-4o
16. Rape                                  29-32          29-32         29-32          31-34          31-34         35-38          37-40         35-38          31-34         31-34
17. Flax                                  33-36          34-37          34-37         36-39         36-39          38-41          38-41         36-39          34-37         34-37
18  White Peas                            30-33          34-37          34-37         35-38         35-38          36-39          33-36         33-36          30-33         28-31
19. Mtixed Peas/Lentils                   25-28          25-28         25-28          25-28         27-30          27-30         27-30          25-28          23-26         23-26
December 15, 1976.
:H r
eN



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
SERVICING ECODD MARKETING CENTERS
AND COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES
1.        The number of marketing centers for input supply are expected to
increase from 350 to 575during the Project period. Grain marketing has been
introduced in the CADU and WADU areas and at a few scattered centers (coopera-
tive societies) under the MPP program. Under the proposed next stage of MPP
marketing activities would be introduced at 50-60 centers annually and would
embrace 265 centers by 1980/81. The combination of input supply and marketing
will limit the grain buying season to the period December-March.
2.        In selecting areas for introduction of crop buying three factors
have been taken into consideration:
(a) volume of incremental production through ECODD
activities;
(b) progress in cooperative formation;
(c) distance from Addis Ababa (Asmara). A longer distance
is likely to mean greater marketing inefficiencies.
The ECODD marketing centers would buy produce from farmers and
traders from within as well as from outside the MPP area. Priority would
be given to input customers only if the capacity temporarily should be
limited.
3.        With the addition of grain marketing, the functions and the division
of labor between ECODD, AMC and AIDB at the marketing center (MC), minimum
package project (MPP), regional (branch) and national level would be as
follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
ECODD    AMC   AIDB
(a) Marketing Center/Primary Coop. Soc. level:
Estimate input requirements                 X
Receive loan applications, prepare loan
agreements                                  X
Have documents signed by farmer and
guarantors                                  X
Receive, store and issue fertilizer         X
Collect down payments or cash payments    X
Estimate grain buying volume                X
Grade, bag, store and dispatch grain        X
Collect repayment                           X
Register and remind defaulters              X
Collect market information                  X
Provide information about AMC prices        X
Cooperative promotion                       X
(b) MPP - Level (supervisor):
Review and aggregate estimates of
input requirements                          X
Supervise processing of loan agreements   X
Collect and forward documents and funds   X
Review and estimate aggregate crop
buying volume and estimate working
capital requirements                        X
Distribute crop buying advances             X
Collect and deposit repayments              X



ANNEX 5
Page 3
ECODD   AMC     AIDB
Audit cash and stocks                       X
Notify AMC of need to remove grain          X
Guide action against defaulters             X
Review and forward market information
(village markets) to AMC branch office    X
(c) Regional (Branch) level: 1/
Review and aggregate estimates of input
requirement                                 X
Receive, check and file copies of loan
agreement, receipts and journals, estab-
lish account cards for MC, MPP and region
and forward to AIDB monthly. Verify with
bank statements and audit MPP levels.       X
Review and aggregate crop buying volume
and estimate working capital require-
ments                                       X
Tender for transport (for grain within
region)                                            X
Remove grain from marketing centers and
distribute sacks                                   X
Store and sell produce                             X
Establish profit and loss accounts and
balance sheets for each MC                 X
Participate in budgeting and planning
of the expansion of the regional program  X        X
Plan and guide cooperative promotion and
assist registered coop. societies          X
Collect (wholesale markets), review
(village markets), and forward price
information to AMC and EGB                         X
l/   In the areas where a secondary union is or will be formed (e.g., CADU &
WADU) the union may take over most of the ECODT and AMC functions.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
ECODD   AMC   AIDB
(d) National level:
Review and aggregate estimates of input
requirements and credit needs               X      X        X
Procure, receive, 1/ store and distribute
inputs to MC and coop. societies                   X
Grant loans to registered cooperative
societies and allocate funds for the input
distribution program (cash and credit) man-
aged by ECODD                                               X
Pay AMC for inputs at delivery to MC (regis-
tered coop. societies would pay AMC directly)               X
Keep aggregate account for the ECODD input
distribution program and receive and check
monthly statements for MC, MPP and regions                  X
Operate a minimum fleet of own lorries              X
Tender for transport                                X
Arrange interregional transfers of
grain                                               X
Review and aggregate crop buying volumes X
Distribute advances to MPP supervisors
for_crop buying                                     X
Review market information and issue
monthly pricing instructions                        X
Procure and distribute sacks to
regional offices                                    X
Receive, check and file copies of loan
agreements, receipts and journals for
non-regionalized parts of the country.
Establish account cards for MC and MPP
and forward to AIDB monthly. Verify
with bank statements and audit these
MPP areas                                   X
1/ The Addis Ababa, Nazareth and Kombolcha branches of AMC would be res-
ponsible for the storing and distribution.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
ECODD    AMC     AIDB
Supervise cooperative credit and the
ECODD input distribution program                            X
Reimburse ECODD for the services provided
by the marketing centers and determine
amount of subsidy                                   X       X
Keep accounts for ECODD activities          X
Keep accounts for AMC operations                    X
Cooperative promotion registration,
supervision, assistance and financing       X
4.        At a marketing center, two marketing assistants with one scale can
buy a maximum of 15 MT per day (from about 75 farmers) and during a 3-1/2
month season the maximum volume would be about 1400 MT. Assuming the store
can be emptied every fortnight, this will require a storage capacity at the
marketing center level fo 200 MT. Allowing for some carry-over of inputs
this capacity would be increased to 300 MT. The utilization of the capacity
may vary with the season (being highest immediately after harvest) and the
initial volume of trade of course may also be low. However, it may be noted
that the buying volume can be doubled if another marketing assistant and
scale is added and if the produce is removed weekly.
5.        The build-up of the crop-buying activities during the first four
year phase is described in Appendix 1 and summarized below:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Province                1977/78            1978/79            1979/80            1980/81
No. of  Vol.      No. of   Vol.      No. of    Vol.    No. of    Vol.
MC       MT        MC        MT      MC          MT      MC        MT
Arussi
(CADU)              30    35000        30    40000        33    50000          33   60000
Sidamo
(WADU)              15      3750       20      5000       25      7500         30   10500
Shoa S. (Ada,
SORADEP etc.)        21    7350         21     9450        26    14300         26   15600
Kaffa                10    3500         15     5750        15     7250         15    7750
Tigre                17    4500         23     5700        27     8200         33   11100
Bale                                     9     4050        14     6700         14    8100
Gojjam                                  25     7500        30    11500         30   14500
Wollega                                                    26     9700         26   12300
Harrarghe                                                  23     5750         34   10800
Shoa SW                                                                        24   10800
Total          93   54100         143    77450       219   120900        265  161450
Average per
MC(MT)                 582                 542                552                 609
6.        The ECODD extension efforts have so far almost exclusively been
concentrated on cereal crops. Crop buying would thus have a similar focus.
Smaller quantities of pulses and oil crops would be bought in certain areas.
An estimate of the composition of the expected buying volume is summarized
below (MT):



ANNEX 5
Page 7
1977/78        1978/79         1979/80         1980/81
Teff              5425           9280           14980           20965
Wheat            28760          39930           52075           67920
Barley            9135          12980           15700           20725
maize             6710            7800           19945          27150
Sorghum            320            310            4100            7040
Oilcrops/
pulses         3750            7150           14100           17650
Total            54100          77450          120900          161450
7.        The annual costs of operating a marketing center for input distri-_
bution would be of the order of Birr 5,500 including interest and depreciation.
These costs would increase to about Birr 20,000 with the addition of grain
marketing and the construction of a 300 MT store. During the Project period
AMC would reimburse ECODD and the registered cooperative societies by Birr 25
per MT handled. This would allow full cost coverage if the volume of inputs
sold and grain bought exceeds 800 MT (220 MT for only input distribution).
The AMC reimbursement would at that volume represent about 7 percent of the
marketing center turnover. To the extent that this volume is not reached,
ECODD would thus not cover its costs and would require a subsidy. This would
be regarded as development costs and be budgeted by ECODD. However, should
a center not reach the specified volume over a four-year period the reasons
would be reviewed and remedial action (e.g., amalgamation) be taken. The
costs for expanding the number of marketing centers and for adding produce
marketing to a number of existing centers would all be included under the
next phase of MPP which is likely to have a similar time frame as this Project.
The cost of adding produce marketing amounts to Birr 9.25 million over the
four-year period and includes the construction of an additional 145 small
(300 MT) stores.



ETHIOPIA
-  *   GRAIN STORAGE AND MARRETING PROJECT
Build-up of Grain BuvinR Operation
1977/78                                  1978/79                     1979/80                               1980/81
- +ovince/MPPA       No. of MC   Vol./MC   Total MT  No. of MC    Vol  MC   Total MT   No. of MC  Vol./MC   Total MT   No. of MC   Vol./MC   Total MT
1.  Arussi, CADIT        30       1.170      35,000    30             1,330      4o,ooo      33          1,515     50,000       33           1,818      60,000
2.  Sidamo WADU          15         250       3,750    20               250       5,000      25            300       7,500      30             350      10,500
3. Shoa S.
ADDP                7        350        2,450     7               450      3,150       7             550       3,850       7             600       4,200
Nazareth            4        350        1,400     4               45       1,800       4            550       2,200       4             600       2,400
Others              5        350        1,750     5               450      2,250       5             550      2,750        5             600       3,000
SORADEP             5        350        1,750     5               450      2,250      10             550      5,500      10              600       6,ooo
4. Keffa
Jimma               5        350        1,750     5               450      2,250       5             550      2,750       5              600       3,000
Asendabo            5        350        1,750     5               450      2,250       5             550      2,750        5             600       3,000
Others              -         -           -       5               250      1,250       5             350      1,750        5             350       1,750
5.  Tigre
Enda Selassie       5        300        1,500     5               300      1,500       5             400      2,000        5             500       2,500
Agame               6        300        1,800     6               300      1,800       6             400      2,400        6             500       3,000
Axum-Adwa           6        200        1,200     6               200      1,200       6             300      1,800        6             300       1,800
Hulet Awlalo        -         -           -       -                -          -        4             200         800       4             200         800
Enderta             -         -           -       6               200      1,200       6            200       1,200       6              300       1,800
Raya & Azebo        -         -           -       -                -          -         -             -          -        6              200       1,200
6. Bale
Adaba               -         -           -       5               450      2,250       5            550       2,750       5              650       3,250
Robe                -         -           -       4               450      1,800       4             550      2,200        4             650       2,600
Others              -         -           -       -               -           -        5            350       1,750       5              45o       2,250
December 15, 1976.
X O2



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Build-up of Grain Buying Operation
(Continued)
1977/78                        1978/79                          1979/80                          1980/81
Province/MPPA           Mc      Vol./MC      Total MT    c      Vol./MC     Total MT      Mc       Vol./MC     Total MT   MC      Vol./MC       Total MC
7. Gojjam
Rahar Dar         -         -            -        5     300           1,500        5         400         2,000       5      500          2,500
Dangela           -         -            -        5      300          1,500        5         400         2,000       5      500           2,500
Finote Selam      -         -            -        6      300          1,800        6         400         2,400       6      500           3,000
Debre Markos      -         -            -        5      300          1,500        5         40         2,000       5      500           2,500
Richena           -         -            -        4      300          1,200         4        400         1,600       4      500           2,000
Others            -         -            -        -       -             -          5         300         1,500       5      400           2,000
8. Wellega
Sire              -         -            -        -       -             -          5         350         1,750       5      450          2,250
Digga             -         -            -        -       -             -          5         350         1,750       5      450           2,250
Gihimbi           -         -            -        -       -             -          5         350         1,750       5      450           2,250
Henna             -         -            -        -       -             -          6         450         2,700       6      550           3,300
Others            -         -            -        -       -             -          5         350         1,750       5      450          2,250
9. Hatrarghe
Chercher                     -         -              -          -            -          -                 -         6      250           1,500
Jijiga            -         -            -        -       -             -          -          -            -         -       -
Habru             -          -           -        -       -             -           4        250         1,000       4      350           1,400
Wobera            -         -            -        -       -             -          -          -            -         5      250           1,250
Gara Muletta      -         -            -        -       -             -          5         250         1,250       5      350           1,750
Harrar            -         -            -        -       -             -          9         250         2,250       9      350           3,150
Gursum            -         -            -        -       -             -          5         250         1,250       5      350           1,750
10. Shoa SW
Tulu Rolo         -         -            -        -       -             -           -         -            -         7      450           3,150
Wolkite           -         -            -        -       -             -          _          _            _         6      450           2,700
Buta Tira         -         -            -        -       -             -                                            6      450.         2,700
Others            -         -                                                                                        5      450          2,250
Grand Total    93                    54,100    143                 77,450       219                  120,900      265                161,450
AV/MC                 582                           542                                  552                            609
December 15, 1976.
0I,L0



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
STATE FARM PRODUCTION
1.        As a result of the "Public Ownership of Rural Lands Proclamation"
published on April 29, 1975 in the Negarit Gazeta and effective as of March 4,
1975, some 500 privately owned commercial farms were combined into eleven
State Farms under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Resources and
Development. No compensation is being paid for the value of the land, but
Government has declared its intention of fair compensation for movable pro-
perty and permanent works. The rate of compensation, however, has not yet
been determined. The new management of these farms is being handled either
by former owners now employed by the Government or by newly appointed managers
transferred from other ministries or hired from nationalized commercial enter-
prises. These farms have now been placed under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Settlement.
2.        In addition there are some large scale agricultural farms which
were Government owned prior to the Land Reform and which are now also under
the auspices of Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement.
3.        Table 1 gives a breakdown by individual farms, of cultivation of
different commodities during the 1975/76 season. The data has been obtained
through discussions with farm management. The conclusions are that the main
food crops of all Government operated farms are maize and wheat with an
estimated combined production of about 70,000 MT followed by sorghum, teff,
haricot beans, barley and other pulses and oil crops with an estimated total
yield of about 10,000 MT. In addition, the State Farms are engaged in the
production of cash crops. The largest crop of this kind is cotton (30,000 ha),
followed by coffee (6,300 ha). A small area (90 ha) is used for tobacco. The
remaining area is used for sisal (1,800 ha), orchards (citrus, 900 ha) and
vegetables (mainly pepper, 700 ha). 4,200 ha are presently covered by forests.
4.        The intention of the Government in accordance with the Land Procla-
mation is that a large portion of these farms would be handed over to small-
holders. The first areas to be broken up in this manner will be the rain-fed
farms engagod in food crop production. At the same time it is anticipated that
the State Farms will acquire virgin lands for cultivation. Therefore, the
State Farms' marketable production is expected to be as follows:
1977/78        50,000 MT
1978/79        60,000 MT
1979/80        75,000 MT
1980/81       100,000 MT



ANNEX 6
Page  2
5.        The storage capacity of all the State Farms combined is grossly
insufficient. For the estimated annual grain production of about 80,000 MT
in the 1975/76 season, storage for only 25,000 MT is available. The storage
shortage is going to worsen, since the operations are gradually moving away
from the established areas to virgin lands and consequently leaving existing
facilities behind for settlement areas. The inadequate facilities are further
reduced by a substantial number of warehouses which need repair to be fully
suitable for grain storage.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Table 1 State Farms, area cultivated and estimated production, 1975.
Area (ha)
Farm                     Grain, Oilseeds   Other   Forest   Total
and pulses       Crops
Ministry of Agriculture
Rift Valley Lakes                         15,900           300       -    16,200
Upper Awash                                 4,660        7,530       -    12,190
Middle Awash                                  600        3,355       -      3,955
Lower Awash                                   -         2,650        -      2,650
Tendaho                                       -        11,192        -    11,192
Arba Minch                                    170        2,240       -      2,410
Cheffa                                      2,059           -        -      2,059
Eastern                                       569          697       -      1,266
South-Western                               2,000       5,995      4,190  12,185
Livestock Dev. Corp.                          -            -         -        -
Chilalo                                    29,468          -         -    29,468
Chebo-Gibe                                  2,000          700       -      2,700
Awash Valley                                  500        3,600       -      4,100
Didessa                                     2,000          -         -      2,000
Wolkite                                    1,400           200       -      1,600
Fincha                                        -             -        100      100
Ministry of Community Development
awassa                                      2,366       1,900        -      4,266
Land Reform Postponed
Humera and Jijiga
Total               63,692       40,359      4,290 108,341
December 15. 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
GRAIN IMPORTS AND SECURITY RESERVES
Consumption
1.        The present demand for cereals amounts to about 3.8 million MT as
shown in Table 1. If per capita consumption on farms were to increase by 1.8%
per annum over the Project period as a result of the land reform while per
capita non-farm consumption is held constant the total food grain requirements
would be 4.7 million MT by 1980/81 (Table 1).
Table 1: Growth of Demand for Food Grains ('000)
Pop.              1974/75                        1980/81
Population   Growth
Group      Rate Z  Pop.   Kg/cap    Con-          Pop.     Kg/cap       Con-
'000   & year  sumption    '000        & year   sumption
'Q000 MT                         '000 MT
On farm        1.9   18,294   146      2,666    20,481         163     3,338
Rural
non-farm    2.2    2,678   180         482      3,052        180       549
Nomad          1.0    2,110    47        100      2,240         47       105
Urban          6.0    2,943   183        538      4,174        183       764
Subtotal      3.4    7,731   145       1,120      9,466        149     1,418
Total         2.35  26,025   146       3,786    29,947         147     4,756
2.        Under normal growing conditions Ethiopia -as basically selfsufficient
in cereals before the land reform (Annex 1, Table 1) and it is still too early
to judge either its immediate or the long run effects. Considerable efforts
have been made either to settle peasants on the ex-commercial farms or to organ-
ize State farms for their cultivation. Cereal crops have been emphasized and
will to some extent replace former production which focused on exports of oil
crops and pulses. In spite of these commendable efforts, total cultivated area
decreased somewhat, plantings in some areas were late (particularly of the



ANNEX 7
Page 2
early crops such as hybrid maize) and the conditions in the formerly surplus
producing areas of the Setit Humera and Jijiga regions were unsettled.
It appears that total ceteal production was about 60,000 MT, below the esti-
mated 1974/75 level. This necessitated grain imports during 1975176 of 70,000
MT. As to the long run effects of land reform, ECODD and CADU are already
experiencing an increasing demand for fertilizers and other inputs. The
incremental production expected during the MPP second phase would imply a 5
percent annual growth in total cereal production.
Import requirements
3.        On the basis of the assumptions about consumption and production
presented above, grain import requirements are estimated in Table 2. During
the project period there seems to be a substantial import need which, however,
gradually diminishes and in the mid 1980's self-sufficiency is likely to be
re-established. Actual imports have been assumed to be limited to 100,000 MT
because of handling and financial constraints reviewed below.
Table 2: Import Requirements of Cereals (000 MT; Normal Weather)
Estimated 1/      Estimated 2/           Assumed       Reduction in
Consumption       Production       Gap   Imports 3/   Exports 4/
1976/77           4,079              3,815        264      100             164
1977/78           4,234              4,003        231      100             131
1978/79           4,395              4,201         194     100              94
1979/80           4,562              4,409        153      100             53
1980/81           4,756              4,629         127     100             27
1/  Pop. growth plus increase in on-farm consumption.
2/   5 percent growth from 1975/76.
3/   Reflecting handling and financial constraints.
4/   Oilseeds and pulses.
Financial Constraints
4.        The costs of importing grain to Addis Ababa during the Project
period is estimated at Birr 494 per MT (Para. 22, Annex 4). These costs
would decrease if all or part of the imports are obtained on concessionary
terms. If the imported grain is sold at the upper price limit 1/ of the
1/   Plus 4 months seasonal adjustment = Birr 355 per MT.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
illustration in para. 4, Annex 4, an annual subsidy of Birr 14 million would be
required for 100,000 MT of wheat imported on commercial terms. The import
subsidy could be reduced if the domestic wholesale price is adjusted upwards
and completely eliminated if it is put at the import parity level.
Handling onstraintse
5.        Grain would be imported through three main ports and their facilities
and capacity are as follows:
Assab
Assab on the Red Sea in southern Eritrea is the closest to Ad4is Ababa (860 kim)
It has six warehouses covering a total area of about 15,000 m . In 1973, the
port handled 174,000 MT of imports and 167,000 MT of exports of which pulses,
oilseeds and cakes, totaling 65,000 MT, made up 40 percent. The total tonnage
handled (341,000 MT) represented a 60-70 percent utilization of port facilities,
so that there was a theoretical spare capacity of 100,000 to 130,000 MT availa-
ble in 1973.
Distribution of imports is entirely by road, and there are some 1,500 trailer-
trucks operating between Assab and Addis Ababa. With an average capacity of
22 MT, each truck is capable of making a maximum of one round trip per week.
The freight rate for grains transported from Assab to Addis Ababa is currently
Birr 5.25 per quintal or 6 cents/ton/km, which is below the average of 10 cents/
ton/km applying to other all-weather road transport in Ethiopia. Loading7and
unloading of trucks at Assab is handled by clearing and forwarding agents at
the port.
Massawa
Massawa on the Red Sea in Northern Eritrea is only 114 km from Asmara, the
second largest city of Ethiopia, to which it is connected by road and rail.
Rail transport has declined in importance, and the Northern Ethiopian Railroad
is facing closure. The distance by all-weather road (via Asmara) to Addis
Ababa is 1 . 195 km.
2
The port of Massawa has six warehouses covering 12,000 m . In 1973, the port
handled 128,000 MT of imports and 227,000 MT of exports, of which pulses,
oilseeds and cakes totaling 148,000 MT represented about 65%. The total
tonnage handled in 1973 (255,000 MT) represented a capacity utilization of 60-
70 percent giving a theoretical spare capacity of 110-140,000 MT.
Dj ibouti
Situated at the entrance to. the Red Sea, in the territory of the Afars and
Issas, Djibouti is connected to Addis Ababa (751 km) by the Franco-Ethiopian
railway (FER) which carries virtually all Ethiopian traffic handled by the port.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
The port of Djibouti has 12 public warehouses covering more than 18,000 m 2
as well as seven privately owned warehouses with an area of nearly 7,000 m 2
Ethiopia has special traffic rights and transit concessions in the port.
Comparable traffic statistics to these given for Assab and Massawa are not
available, but in 1969/70 the FER carried some 176,000 MT of imports and
119,000 MT of exports. Grains, pulses, oilseeds and cake at 18,000 MT repre-
sented some 15 percent of the export traffic. FER's theoretical carrying
capacity is four trains of 20 x 20 MT wagon per day in each direction. In
fact, FER is operating at about 40 percent capacity and cannot go much above
this level.
6.        The experience gained by Relief and Rehabilitation Commission (RRC)
in handling grain imports for relief purposes suggests that, if other trade
continues at its present level, the maximum additional grain imports that
could be handled at each port would be:
Port                      MT per Month                    MT per Year
Assab                     9,000 - 10,000                  100,000
Massawa                   5,000 -  6,000                   70,000
Djibouti                  2,000 -  3,000                   30,000
Considering the political disturbances which affect the utilization of both
Assab and Massawa and fluctuation in import requirements, the average total
import capacity is unlikely to exceed 100,000 MT.
Security Reserves
7.        The proposal of the 1974 study on food security 1/ to establish a
minimum emergency grain reserve of 50,000 MT (4 months supply for 1 million
people) has been accepted by the Government, and AMC will administer these
reserves. Existing storage facilities would be fully utilized by AMC
for ordinary operations and for the establishment of the reserve. The Project
therefore would provide for the construction of additional storage facilities
at Dessie (10,000 MT), Makele (10,000 MT), Dire Dawa (10,000 MT), Shashamene
(5,000 NT) and Addis Ababa (15,000 MT).
8.        Estimated current grain import needs during the project period are,
however, of such magnitude that it is hardly feasible to acquire the reserve
stocks from abroad (port capacity, strains on external assistance and the
domestic budget). In case of a good harvest, however, it will be possible
to establish a carry-over to next year. This carry-over may either be
regarded as buffer stocks or set aside as security reserves.
9.        In the latter case the Government would have to buy the stocks from
AMC (approx. Birr 12.5 million for 50,000 MT) and reimburse the Corporation
1/   FAO.  A policy and action plan for strengthening national food security
in Ethiopia, 1974.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
for the costs of maintaining these stocks (estimated at Birr 59 MT including
interest (Annex 4) or Birr 3 million annually). No separate administration of
the security reserves is visualized. AMC would simply be instructed not to
draw down its stocks below 50,000 MT without explicit instruction from the
Government.
10.       Alternatively the reserves could be regarded as a buffer stock to
replace imports in a normal or below normal harvest year. The difference
between the import parity price and the domestic wholesale price (lower
price limit) must exceed Birr 131 per MT for buffer stocking to be feasible
if a good harvest occurs once in every 4 years (Annex 4, para. 25). The
present and forecast difference may be estimated at Birr 215 per MT.
11.       Until self-sufficiency has been established in a normal year the
security reserve facilities will be used for buffer stock purposes. At that
time however, a security reserve would be established if possible with grain
donated from abroad.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING CORPORATION (AMC)
A. Objectives
1.        In order to implement Government marketing policy as outlined in
Annex 3, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) has been established
to handle a progressively increasing volume in the marketing of cereals, oil-
seeds and pulses, and the distribution of agiicultural inputs (mainly fertil-
izers, seed and pesticides) in order to:
(a) closely relate the seasonal and geographical price variations
to cost and to stabilize prices between years;
(b) promote sound marketing practices including proper weighing,
grading and stock management;
(c) assure timely and efficient supply of inputs to the ECODD mar-
keting centers/cooperatives and State farms and to remove pro-
duce in such a way as to avoid congestion and give good service
to farmers:
(d) decrease the marketing margin between the producers and the
wholesale level and thereby improve producer prices and incen-
tives (in competition with private trade);
(e) assure proper food supply distribution. Although most of AMC's
sales would be on a wholesale basis, it will also take action
to reduce retail margins where they seem excessive; and
(f) cover its costs including depreciation and interest on capital
employed. The rate of interest should be fixed at a level that
takes into account the risk factor and the opportunity cost of
capital in Ethiopia.
2.        Thus there is no simple criteria (e.g. profit) against which to
measure the success or failure of the Corporation, apart from the fact that
where it is operating in competition with private trade (e.g. in buying
produce through the ECODD alternative marketing channel and in purchasing
oilseeds and pulses for export) a comparison of AMC's margins with those of
the private trade provides a rough and ready yardstick of comparative
efficiency. In general, however, AMC's performance has to be judged against
the extent to which it achieves the oblectives set out above. An internal
evaluation for management guidance is thus essential. Ad hoc consultations



ANNEX 8
Page 2
with advisory committees, to be established at branch level at the discretion
of the Executive Chairman, are intended to help assess and improve performance.
Market research studies to be conducted by EGA (Annex 10) will also help
determine the extent to which AMC fulfills the above objectives.
B. Functions
3.        AMC buys grain, oilseeds and pulses through the ECODD channel
(Annex 5) from the State farms (Annex 6) and from abroad (Annex 7). The Cor-
poration also procures and distributes inputs (Annex 2) and arranges to
operate buffer stocks (Annex 7). In performing these tasks AMC is guided by
the pricing principles outlined in Annex 4. In produce buying a simple classi-
fication system would be devised to reflect variety, condition and cleanliness.
In the latter respect the following three grades would be introduced:
Grade 1   Less than 5% impurities by weight
Grade 2    5 - 10% impurities by weight
Grade 3   10 - 15% impurities by weight
Prices would be adjusted to reflect quality standards. AMC may buy from
private trade particularly if producer prices in a certain area seem
depressed when seen in relation to prices in adjacent deficit areas.
4.        AMC sells through the following channels:
(a) flour mills (nationalized and private);
(b) oil mills;
(c) private wholesalers for distribution through private retail
channels;
(d) private retailers;
(e) institutional buyers (armed forces, hospitals, schools);
(f) private exporters, Export-Import Corporation or foreign
buyers.
AMC enters the field of retailing only when circumstances so demand, for
example, when private retailing capacity is inadequate.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
5.        The total volume of commercially marketed grain, oilseeds and
pulses is expected to increase from about 690,000 MT in 1975/76 to over
1,100,000 MT in 1980/81 (Table 1). During the Project Period, the public
sector share rises in absolute terms from about 200,000 MT in 1976/77
to some 500,000 in 1980/81 (Table 2). To arrive at AMC's storage needs to
handle these quantities, account has been taken of the seasonal pattern of
marketing and consumption, the phasing of imports and the need to separate
varieties and grades and to allow for under-utilization of storage in some
localities. On this basis, storage requirements have been estimated at 75%
of total volume handled and would rise from 195,000 MT capacity in 1976/77
to 375,000 MT capacity in 1979/80 (Table 3). 1/ Allowing for capacity to be
transferred to AMC from EGC (33,000 MT), and for nationalized storage
(100,000 MT), a new storage construction program for 242,000 MT would be
needed and would be spread evenly over the four years of the Project Period,
as indicated below:
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80       Total
(in '000 MT)
New storage capacity to be
constructed                       62       60         60        60         242
This would have the advantage of avoiding any overstraining of the capacity
of the construction industry (Annex 16). Total projected AMC storage
requirements by function are detailed in Table 4.
6.        Input requirements are estimated to increase from 62,000 MT in
1975/76 to 137,000 MT in 1980/81. Inputs would be tendered for in July and
bids accepted by September, received in the period November through February
and directly delivered to the marketing centers/cooperative societies (310)
not engaged in marketing of produce. AMC would be paid at delivery to the
marketing centers by AIDB. Maximum AMC inventory (for supplying the market-
ing centers engaged in produce marketing and for restocking of other marketing
centers later in the season) is estimated at 50% of total volume i.e. 68,500
MT in 1980/81. Storage facilities for 18,000 MT are available leaving 50,500
MT to be constructed (Table 4).
7.        Storage facilities for 50,000 MT of security reserves would be
constructed (Table 4).
1/   There is some indication that the marketing season will be extended after
land reform. If so, farm storage would substitute for warehouses and
the storage volume could be reduced below 75% of grain handled.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
8.        The Corporation would need transport capacity to remove a maximum
400,000 MT of produce from the marketing centers/cooperative societies and
the State Farms in the period December-April, distribution of about 68,500
MT of inputs in the same period and an equal amount in the period of April-
June, and for imports and regional transfers of grain particularly in period
June-November. The peak demand for transport will be in the period December-
April and judging from CADU, EGC, AIMS and other experience it will be neces-
sary for AMC to acquire some transport capacity in case private transport
cannot be obtained (particularly over bad roads) or does not fulfill contract
obligations. Although the majority of the transport requirements will be
tendered for, it is thus suggested that AMC should have a capacity to handle
40% of peak produce movement or 120,000 MT by itself. Assuming a period of
120 working days, one load per day of an average of 12 MT, AMC would need to
operate a fleet of about 80 trucks. 1/ These would be handled from a central
pool from Headquarters but be assigned to the branches on demand. During the
latter part of the calendar year the fleet would be fully used for inter-
regional transfers and imports.
9.        The AMC investments in vehicles, office and storage equipment by
branch office are indicated in Table 5 and summarized in Table 6.  Operating
cost by branch is summarized in Table 8 and requirements of different cate-
gories of staff are given in Table 9.
10.       Total buying and handling costs are estimated in Table 10 and on the
basis of certain assumptions about the seasonal variations in inventories of
produce and inputs, the peak requirements of working capital in 1980/81 would
amount to Birr 135 million (Table 11). This figure is subject however to con-
siderable uncertainty and possible Government subsidies are assumed to be paid
at arrival of the grain and inputs in port.
Financing
11.       On the basis of the pricing principles outlined in Annex 4 an AMC
income statement, cash flow and balance sheet (all in constant 1976 prices)
are presented in Tables 12, 13 and 14 respectively.
12.       The banking system will be able to handle 78% of AMC's peak working
capital requirements while the remaining 22% will be provided as fixed capital.
The Project will provide for the cost of seven internationally recruited staff 2/
in the AMC organization and Birr 100,000 annually for staff training and short-
term consultancy services. The build up of AMC's permanent capital is derived
in Table 15. The amount of AMC resources at the start of the Project period
is estimated at Birr 25.3 million (Table 12). A Government guaranteed
overdraft facility with the commercial banks needs to be established.
1/ of which 40 trucks have been already purchased and
15 trucks with 6 MT capacity (4 wheel drive)
10 trucks with 10 MT capacity
15 trucks with 20 MT capacity
would be procured under the Project
2/ SIDA has provided one staff-member.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Organization
13.       AMC has been established by charter (Appendix 1) during 1976.
Ministerial respo,.sibility for AMC rests with the Minister of Agriculture
and Settlement who:
(a) acts as the channel of communication between Government and
the Corporation;
(b) acts as chairman of the Board of AMC;
(c) receives its Annual Report and accounts.
14.       The Board of Directors consists of:
-    Minister of Agriculture and Settlement (Chairman)
-    Head of ECODD
-    General Manager EGB
-    Representative of National Bank
Representative of Ministry of Interior 1/
-    General Manager of AMC
15.       The powers of the Board are defined as follows:
(a) the approval of AMC's budgets, annual reports and accounts;
(b) the approval of AMC's strategy at the opening of each season
to implement Government's decisions on prices (tolerance limits),
imports or buffer stocking, exports, as well as input supply and
distribution;
(c) the consideration and approval of management recommendations as
to monthly adjustment of AMC's buying price structure;
(d) the approval of borrowing and major contracts;
(e) the delegation of full responsibility for AMC's day-to-day
operations, for execution of policy decisions and for control
of staff to its,General Manager.
16.     Ministerial Directives have been issued by the Minister of Agri-
culture and Settlement to provide more guidance as to the objectives of
AMC (Appendix 2).
1/ As spokesman for the regional authorities.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
17.       AMC's internal organization is shown in Chart 1.  The Corporation
would duriag the Project period operate through branches and subbranches.
The General Manager will have full responsibility for the day-to-day operations
of the Corporation. In view of the size and complexities of the operations
the positions of Deputy Manager, Deputy Director Commercial Department, Senior
Accountant or Financial Controller, Chief Cost Accounts Division, Chief
Engineer, Head of Transport Department and Chief Planning and Programming
Section have been filled by internationally recruited staff.
Accounting
18.       In designing the AMC accounting system the following points would
be observed:
(a) The relations between established wholesale prices and AMC
producer and retail prices including seasonal and spatial
variations will be based on cost (Annex 4).
(b) If the Government decides to deviate from this pricing pattern
AMC would be compensated accordingly. Any service (e.g., secur-
ity reserves) provided on Government request will be compensated
separately.
(c) During the Project period ECODD will be compensated for its
services on the basis of Birr 25 per MT handled. ECODD will
establish actual costs and request possible budgetary support
(Annex 5).
(d) AMC's performance (margins) needs to be judged in relation to
that of private trade.
(e) To assure proper management control the viability of each branch
and of the AMC transport services needs to be established.
19.       AMC will thus require an elaborate cost accounting system which
allows identification of costs in different types of operations such as pro-
duce buying, grain importing, seasonal storage, buffer stocking, procurement
and distribution of inputs, which distinguishes different types of produce
and inputs and which treats each branch as a separate cost center.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 1
PROCLAMATION NO. 105 OF 1976
A PROCLAMATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AGRICULTURAL MARKETING CORPORATION
MARKETING CORPORATION
"ETHIOPIA TIKDEM"
WHEREAS, it is necessary to integrate the organizations presently
engaged in the procurement and distribution of inputs and grain marketing;
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with Article 6 of the Definitions
of powers of the Provisional Military Administrative Council and its Chairman,
Proclamation No. 2/1974, it is proclaimed as follows:
1.   Short Title
This Proclamation may be cited as the "Agricultural Marketing
Corporation Establishment Proclamation No. 105 of 1976"
2.   Definitions
In this proclamation unless the context otherwise requires;
1.   "Agricultural Product" means any grain or by-product thereof.
2.   "Grains means cereals, oilseeds, pulses or such other items
as the Ethiopian Grain Board may designate.
3.   "Inputs" means fertilizers, seed, pesticides, agricultural
implements, equipment, tools or such other items as the
Minister may designate.
4.   "Minister" and "Ministry" mean the Minister and Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry respectively.
3.   Repeal
The Charter of the Ethiopian Grain Corporation, General Notcie
No. 267 of 1960 as amended, is hereby repealed and replaced by
this Proclamation.
4.   Establishment
There is hereby established the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") as an autonomous
public enterprise having separate juridical personality.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 2
5.   Principal Office
The Corporation shall have its principal office in Addis Ababa
and may have branch offices, elsewhere in Ethiopia and abroad.
6.   Objective
The principal objective of the Corporation shall be to execute
the Government's policy in the fields of grain marketing, procure-
ment and distribution of inputs and maintaining national grain
reserve.
7.   Powers and duties of the Corporation
The corporation shall have all powers necessary for the achieve-
ment of its objective. These include the power to:
1.   purchase agricultural products;
2.   export agricultural products or sell the same for
domestic consumption;
3.   import agricultural products;
4.   maintain a national emergency grain reserve;
5.   purchase and sell inputs within Ethiopian or abroad;
6.   purchase, process, manufacture, mill, transport, store, sell
agricultural products and inputs whether for profit or otherwise;
7.   cause to be constructed, to equip and maintain buildings, silos,
storage facilities, grain elevators and other structures and
machinery; '
8.   own, possess, mortgage, sell and exchange property for the pur-
pose of attaining its objectives and the proper functioning of
its operation;
9.   to charge appropriate fees for the services it renders;
10.   enter into contracts and to borrow money;
11.   sue and be sued in its own name; and
12.   discharge such other necessary duties for the attainment of
its objectives.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 3
8.   Composition of the Corporation
The Corporation shall have:
1.   a Board of management (hereinafter the "Board").
2.   a General Manager and,
3.   the necessary staff.
9.   Composition of the Board
The Board shall be constituted by the following members:
1.   The Minister of Agriculture and Forestry or his
representative                                              Chairman
2.   A representative of the Ministry    -                        Member
3.   A representative of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry
4.   A representative of the Ministry of Interior                   "
5.   A representative of the National Bank                          "
6.   A representative of the Ministry of Finance                    "
7.   The General Manager of the Corporation
10. Powers and duties of the Board
1.   Subject to the other provisions of the Proclamation, all
powers and duties of the Corporations shall be vested in the
Board.
2.   The principal functions of the Board shall be to:
(a) lay-down the policy guidelines of the Corporation,
(b) approve the budget, annual report and accounts,
(c) approve the corporation's strategy at the opening
of each season for implementation of the Government's
decision on prices, imports, bufferstock, exports
of agricultural products and input supply and
distributions,



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 4
(d) consider and approve management's recommendations with
regard to monthly adjustment of the Corporation's buying
price structure.
(e) supervise the operation and the activities of the
Corporation.
3.   The Board may delegate all or part of its powers and duties to
the General Manager.
11. Meetings of the Board
1.   The Board shall meet as often as the operations of the Corporation
require.
2.   The Board shall be convened at the request of the Chairman, or
in accordance with its rules of procedure.
3.   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
4.   Decisions for the Board shall be made by majority vote, and in
case of a tie the chairman shall have a casting vote.
5.   The Board shall determine its own rules of procedure.
12. The General Manager
1.   The General Manager shall be appointed by the Government upon
the recommendation of the Minister.
2.   The General Manager shall be the Chief Executive of the
Corporation and shall, subject to the general direction
of the Board, carryout the activities of the Corporation.
3.   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the General
Manager shall:
(a) organize the corporation, employ, administer and dismiss
its employees,
(b) submit a draft of the internal regulations of the corporation
to the Board for approval,
(c) prepare and submit to the Board for approval the annual
budget and the work programs of the Corporation three
months before the beginning of each fiscal year,
(d) delegate his authority to the officials of the Corporation
for the effective performance of the functions of the
Corporation;



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
Page 5
(e) performs such other duties as may be entrusted to him by
the Board.
13. Powers and Responsibilities of the Minister
The Powers and Responsibilities of the Minister shall be to:
1.   encourage and promote the objectives of the Corporation;
2.   assist the Corporation obtain all necessary Government support;
3.   issue to the Corporation the Government's policy guidelines
concerning the activities of the Corporation.
14. Finance
1.   The authorized capital of the Corporation shall be one
hundred million ($100,000,000) dollars.
The initial capital shall be twenty one million seventy
thousand ($21,070,000) dollars, paid up in cash and in
kind.
2.   Capital expenditures or funds necessary for the implementation
of development projects shall be approved by the Board upon
recommendations of the General Manager.
3.   The Corporation shall set aside ten (10) percent of all its
net profits in order to establish and maintain a Reserve Fund
until such fund equals 25% (%) percent of the capital. Any
loss sustained by the Corporation in any particular year,
shall be cohered from the Reserve Fund which shall be replenished
in subsequent years.
4.   The remaining net profits shall be paid to the Ministry of
Finance.
15. Books of Accounts and Fiscal Year
1.   The Corporation shall keep books of accounts with supporting
documents. The audited financial statements of the Corporation
shall be published within six months of the end of the fiscal
year.
2.   The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the 1st of
January and end on the 30th of December.



A4NEX 8
Appendix I
Page 6
16. Auditors
The Books of accounts and all financial matters of the Corporation
shall be audited at least once a year by the Auditor General or
by an auditor designated, by him, and the result of the audit shall
be presented to the Board and through the latter to the Minister.
17.  Transfer of Property
All assets and liabilities of the Ethiopian Grain Corporation
are thereby transferred to the Corporation.
18. Power to issue Regulations
The Minister may, upon the recommendations of the Board, issue
Regulations for the better carrying out of this Proclamations.
19.  Effective Date
This Proclamation shall enter into force on the date of its
publication in the Negarit Gazeta.
Done at Addis Ababa this ........ day
of 1976.
The Provisional Military Administrative
Council



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
MINISTERIAL DIRECTIVES TO AMC
Pursuant to the AMC establishment Proclamation No. 105 of 1976,
the Grain Storage and Marketing Project is designed to assist in developing
Ethiopia's grain storage and marketing system and to be carried out, in
part, by the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), an autonomous public
enterprise, charged primarily with the procurement and wholesale distri-
bution of agricultural produce and inputs, and with retail grain trading
where special circumstances require. The Minister of Agriculture and
Settlement according to the powers vested in him by said Proclamation
shall provide the necessary Ministerial Directives which will ensure the
effective coordination and cooperation among all agencies and entities
concerned with the implementation of the Project and/or may issue such
Regulations as may be required for the better carrying out of the purposes
of the project. The said Ministerial Directives and/or Regulations shall,
among other things, include:
(a) The close correlation of the seasonal and geographical
price variations to cost and the stabilization of
prices between years;
(b) the assurance of timely and efficient supply of inputs to
the ECODD marketing centres/cooperatives and state farms
and the removal of produce in such a way as to avoid
congestion and bad service to farmers;
(c) the decrease of the marketing margin between the pro-
ducers and the wholesale level and thereby improving
producer prices;
(d) the assurance of proper produce supply distribution;
(e) the assurance that costs including depreciation and
interest on capital employed must be covered.
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND SETTLEMENT



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETTNG PROJECT
Estimates of Non-Farm Consumption
and Exports of Grain, Oilseeds and
Pulses 1974/75 to 1980/81
Population      Per Capita       Population                            Non-Farm Consumption and Exports ('000 MT)
1974/75        Consumption        Growth        1974/75       1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       1980/81
('000)           (Kg)              %
Non-Farm rural population               2.678             200              2.2            534          546           558          570           583          597          610
Nomadic population                      2.110              40              1.0             85           86            87           88            89           90           91
Urban population                        2.943             212             6.0             624          661           701          743           788          835          885
Subtotal            -               -                -           1,243        1,293         1,346        1,401         1,460        1,522        1,586
Exportsl/                                 -                -                -             225           31            61           94           131          172          225
Total           -                _                -           1,468        1,324         1,407        1,495        1,591         1,694        1,811
Urban consumption plus exports
(=wholesale trade)                                                                  849           692          762           837          919        1,007        1,110
1/    Exports of oilseeds and pulses is assumed to decrease from the 1974/75 level of 225,000 MT
to allow domestic production of grain to fill the import gap (Annex 7, table 2).  Alternatively
the non-farm per capita consumption would have to be reduced with the same effect on the total
and on wholesale trade.
n.x
February 3, 1977



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETINC PROJECT
Estimates of Wholesale Trade in Grain,
Oilseeds and Pulses
('000 MT)
1975/76        1976/77         1977/7R        1978/79         1979/80        1980/81
Wholesale trade:
Public trade derived from ECODD                 15             3C             54              77             121             161
State Farms        25              30            50               60              75            100
Imports            80             100           100              100             100            100
Other              60              40            56              103             124            139
Subtotal          180             200           260              340            420             500
Private trade                                 512            562            577             57n            5sr87           610
Total wholesale trade                            692            762            837             919            1007           1110
Of which public (%)                             26             26             31              37              42              45
January 21, 1977.
(D X



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Storage Facilities for Wholesale Trade in Grain,
Oilseeds and Pulses
('000 MT)
1975/76        1976/77       1977/78         1978/79       1979/80
Public trade
Available                                               33            133           195             915
Nationalized                                            ino            -             -
Newly constructed                                       -              62            60              60             0n
Subtotal                             133           195           255             315            375
Private trade
Available                                              530           430            375            375            375
1/
Less:  Unsuitable                                       -            -55             -
Nationalized                                   -400            --             -
430           375           375             37'           2_15
Total available grain storage                         563            570           630             690           750
Total required storage                                52)            570           630             690           750
l/ Introduction of licensing.
2/  75% of wholesale trade.
ADr 1  1 1, 1 Q7A                                                                                                            L.) x(



ANNEX 8
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Storage Construction (000 MT) 1/
1976/77    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   Total
A.  Grain 3torage (Table 3)              62          60         60         80       242
B. Input Storage
Required 2/                        39          47         57         69        -
Available                          18          39         47         57        -
Constructed                        21           8         10        12        51
C.  Security Reserves                    -           18         17         15        5C
Total Construction                 83          86         87        87       343
Total Cost 3/                   5,810       6,020     6,090      6,090   24,010
(Birr '000)
F.E. Component 41               1,162       1,204     1,218      1,218    4,802
(Birr '000)
1/  The location and volume of construction has been agreed between IDA and
the borrower.
2/  50% of volume sold.
3/  Birr 70 per MT of storage space, at constant 1976 prices.
4/  20%.
January 21,1977



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Tnvestment in VehLJeLs ,Office and Storage Equipment
Birr '000
Year 1  (1977/78)                   Year 2 (1978/79)                       Year 3 (1979i80)                       Year 4  (1980/81)
Storage    Office                    Storage      Office                    Storage       Office                    Storage     Office
Branch Office                      Vehicles  Equipment  Equipment    Vehicles   Equipment    Equipment    Vehicles   Equipment    Equipment    Vehicles   Equipment   Equipment
Soddo                                                                                                               3           3
Asmara                                 55         72          27
Combolcha                               3          3           4
Dessie                                 40         10          15                                                               28
Adowa                                   3          3           4
Mekele                                 25         16          16
Gondar                                  3          3           4
Bahar Dar                              3           1           3                       2              1
Debre Markos                            -         15           3           40           1            13
Ghimbie                                 3           3          4
Lekemptie                                                                                                                       163                                     3          4
Jijiga
Metu                                    3          3           3
Dire Dawa                                                                                                          25           37           13            15
Jimma                                  4o         16          13
Addis Ababa                            58         go          44                                                                 1            2                         7           2
Debre Zeit                             25          5          10                        1              1
Shashamane                             40         76          30                                                                 3            3
Nazareth                               43         81          34                                                                 4            4                         3           1
Sub-total                 346         398         212           40          4             15            68           92           39            18         13           7
Read Office                         1,056          -         464        1,175           -              -        1,175            -            -             -           -           -
Total                    1,402        398         676        1,215           4            15         1,243           92           39            18          13          7
January 21, 1977
u, CO



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Summary of Investment Vehitles and Equipment
(Birr 'OOO)
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4                       Foreign         Foreign
Branch Office                       (1977/78)     (1978/79)      (1979/80)     (1980/81)       Total          Exchange       Exchange
A                             %           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Tortal
Soddo                                   -              -            10                           10
Asmara                                 154             -             -                           154
Combolcha                               10             -             -              _             10
Dessie                                  65             -            28              -             93
Adowa                                    10                           -             -             10
Mekele                                   57            -              -                           57
Gondar                                  10             -              -             -             10
&&akr Dar                                7              3            _              -             10
Debre Markos                             18            54             -             -             72
Ghimbie                                  10             -             -             -             10
Lekemptie                                               -            69             -             69
Metu                                      9             _-                          -              9
Jijiga                                    -             -             -             10            10
Dire Dawa                                               -            75             15            9O
Jimma                                    69             -             -               -           69
Addis Ababa                             192             -             3               9          204
Debre Zeit                               4O             2             -               -           42
Shashamane                              146             -             6               _          152
Nazareth                                158             -                                     __
Subtotal             955              59         199              38        1,251
Head Office                           3 -52 _        1.175        1.175               -        3870 _o__
Total           2,475           1,234       1,374              38        5,121             75             3,844
January 21, 1977
!iR



ANNEX 8
Table 7
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
List of AMC Equipment
Unit                        Number                       Total
Type of Equipment         Cost        1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81            Cost
Birr '000                                                 Birr '000
A. Veh-:cles
Trucks   6 ton         50            5         5         5          -           750
10 ton        75            5        10        10          -         1,875
Trailers 10 ton        35            5         5         5         -            525
Pick-up                25            8         1         2         -            275
Passenger Car          15           18         1         2         -            315
T:otor cycles           3           11         -          1         1            39
Bicycles                0.2         13         -         3          1             3.4
"obile workshop       100            1                                          100
Total      3,882
B. Storage equipment
Platform scale          1           46         1        10          2            59
Quality contr. &        1.5          6         1         1          1            13.5
fumigation
"I               6             4         -         2         -            36
6.5          4         -         -         -            26
Weigh bridge           24             4        -          -         -            96
Mechanical cleaner    5.4             3         -         1         -            21.6
24            4         -         2         -            144
Conveyor belts          1.8         12         -         1          3            2.8
Sack carrier            0.3         33         -        10          8            15.3
Miscellaneous                                                                    71
Total      511
C.  Office equipment                                                     Total       737
January 21, 1977



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Operating Costs (Birr '000)
Year 1, 1977/78)                             Year 2 (1978/79                             Year 3 (1979/80)                              Year 4 (1980/81)
Brsnch Office                                   Salaries         Other          Total         Salaries        Other          Total          Salaries       Other          Total          Salaries        Other         Total
Soddo                                              -                -             -               -             -               -                21           30             51               21             31            52
Asmara                                            105              412           517             105           404            509               114          404            518              114            344            458
Conbolcha                                          21               24            45              21            29             50                23           22              45              23             24             47
Dessie                                             62              130           192              62            92             154               67           94            161               67             94           161
Adowa                                              19               18            37              19            19              38               23           22              45              23             25             48
Mekele                                             56               50           106              56            61            117                6o           64             124              60             67           327
Gondar                                             21               51            72              21            50             71                23           50             73               23             31            54
Bahar Dar                                          18               15            33              21            23             44                23           25             48               23             30            53
Debre Marcos                                       15               18            33              62            71             133               63           72             135              67             75            142
Ghizbie                                            21               24            45              21            24             45                23           24             47               23             24            47
Lekepte                                            -                -             -               -             -              -                 62           77             139              62             82           144
Jijiga                                             -                -             -               -             -              -                  -            -              -               19             31            50
Metu                                               13               12            25              13            12             25                15           32             27               15             12            27
Dire Dawa                                                           -             -               -             -              -                 62           83             145              62             89           151
Jima.                                              62               76           138              62            79            141                67           88             155              67             91           157
Addis Ababa                                       183              499           682             184           531            715               205          542            747              213            592           805
Debre Zeit                                         53              103           154              59           107             166               63          .11             174              64            100            164
Shashasane                                        117              301           418             117           336            453               139          334            473              139            354           493
Nazareth                                          156              708           864             156           601            757               183          543            726              185            541           726
Head Office                                     1,189              927         2,u16           1,189           903          2,090             1,276          765          2,041            1,276            769          2,045
Sub-total                  2,111           3,366         5,477           2,168         3,340           5,508            2,512        3,362           5,874           2,546          3,406          5,952
Technical Assistance: 7 key posts                 728               -            728             728            -             728               728           -             728              728             _            728
Other 1/00                                    -            300             100             -             100              3.00           -             100 lO00                           . .       100
Total                      2,961           3,366         6,327            3,018         3,340          6,358            3,362         3,362          6,724           3,396           3,406         6,802
/  Training, coneUltancy for training, systems planning, etc.
January 21, 19977.



ANNEX 8
Table 9
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Staff Requirements (1980/81)
High Level   Middle Level   Supporting Staff    Total
Staff         Staff
A. Branch Offices:
Soddo                                  -             3                   6              9
Asmara                                 2             8                  16             26
Ccymbolcha                             -             2                   6              8
Dessie                                 1             5                   8             14
Adowa                                  -             2                   6              8
Mekele                                 1             5                   9             15
Gondar                                 -             2                   6              8
Bahar Dar                              -             2                   6              8
Debre Markos                           1             5                  10             16
Ghimbie                                -             2                   6              8
Lekemptie                              1             5                 10              16
Jij iga                                -             2                  4               6
Metu                                   -             1                   6              7
Dire Dawa                              1             5                 10              16
Jimma                                  1             5                 10              16
Addis Ababa                            3            16                 40              59
Debre Zeit                             1             5                 12              18
Shashamanne                            2            12                 20              34
Nazareth                               2            16                 35              53
Subtotal        16           103                226             345
B. Head Office:
Management & Spec. Sections            6            13                  7             26
Administrative Dept.                   3             4                  8             15
Technical Department                   4             3                  7             14
Transport Department                   3             4                 85             92
Commercial Department                  6             5                 16             27
Accounts Department                    4             6                 42             52
Subtotal        26            35                165            226
1/
Total Requirement          42          138                 391            571
C. Transfers:
From:    EGC                          9            22                  78           109
AIMS                         7             8                 21             36
ECODD                        4            2                  40             46
Subtotal        20            32                139            191
1/
Total new recruitment                   22           106                252            380
1/  Of which seven key posts are funded under the project.
January 21, 1977.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Procurement and handling charges (after deduction of subsidies)
1977/718                       197/79                    19Y9/8u                     1990/Hi
Quantity     Value         Quantity      Value        Quantity       Value          Quantity       Value                  Rema.rks
MT'OOO     Birr '000       MTIGOO    Birr OOO         MT'OOO      Birr'000          MT'OOO      Birr'OO0
A. Procurement of produce
FrmECODD& AMC                                   110        0,300            180        41,400          245          56,350         300           69,000      Producer prices based on upper price limit Birr 230
State farms                                50        12,750            60        15,300           75          19,125         100           25,500                         '"     "       "         Birr 255
Imports                                   100        21,100           100        21,100          100          21,100         100           21,100      Cif price B;rr 350 minus subsidy Birr 139.
B. Procuremert of inputs
Fertilizers                                72        18,o0o            86        21,500          104          26,ooo         124            31,000     Cif price Birr 500 minus subsidy Birr 250.
Other                                       6         5,123             9         7,152           10           9,427          13            11,150     80% of sales value Annex 2.
C. Handling Costs
Produce buying ECODD & AMC                      110         7,150           180        11,700          245          15,925         300            19,500     Birr 65     Annex 4, Para. 20
State farms                       50         2,000            60         2,400          75            3,000         100            4,ooo      Bir, *0     Annex 4, Para. 21
Imports                          100        14,500           100        14,5QD          100          14,500         100           14,500      Birr 145    Annex 4, Para. 22
Retailing                                        74          1,628           79          1 738          88            1,936         93             2,o46     Birr 22      Annex 4, Para. 23
Seasonal storage                                 88-         6,336          116  ..   8,352            143          10,296         170            12,240     Ama-S  inventory 34% x Birr 72; Annex 4
-                      1:70              - .. -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Para,, 24
Inputs                                           78        15,210            95        18,525          114          22,230         137           26,715       Birr 195    Annex 4, Para. 27
Total                          129,097                     163,667                      199,889                      236,751
Of which  inputs                            38,333                      47,177                       57,657                       68,865
produce                           90,764                     116,490                      142,232                      167,886
Jenuary 21, 1977



ETHIOPIA                            ANNEX 8
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT                 Table 11
AMC.Estimate of seasonal variation in value
of inventory (= working capital requirements)
1980/81
Inputs                    Produce
Month                 % of total      Birr        % of total    Birr      Total
value 1/    Million        value 2/   Million Birr Million
July                       20           13.8            35         58.8      72.6
August                     10            6.9            27         45.4      52.3
September                  10            6.9            19        31.9       38.8
October                    10            6.9            10        16.8       23.7
November                   20           13.8            10        16.8       30.6
December                   30           20.7            10        16.8       37.5
January                    40           27.6            30        50.4       78.0
February                   50           34.5            50        84.0      118.5
March                      50           34.5            60       100.8      135.3
April                      50           34.5            60       100.8      135.3
May                        40           27.6            52        87.4      115.0
June                       30           20.7            44        73.9       94.6
Average          30           20.7            34        57.1      77.8
1/      69 million (Table 10).
2/       166 million (Table 10).
December 15, 1976.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS IN CONSTANT PRICES
rr  000                            _                             _
1977/78                  1978/79                  1979/80                  1980/81
Quantity     Value      Quantity      Value      Quantity       Value       Quantity   Value                   Remarks
_______  _______                 ('T 000; )               (MT 000's)              (MT-000's)                 (MT 000's)
REVENUE
Sales of grain                            254     81,026          332      105,908       41          131,747          491    156,629       Unit price Birr 319 per MT.
Sales of fertilizers                       67     29,748            81.8    36,319       98.6         43,778          118      52,392      Unit price Birr 444 per MT.
Sales of other inputs                       6       7,614            8.1    10,279        9.7         12X 300           12.1   15,354      Unit price Birr 1269 per MT.
Sub-total                    118,388                   152,506                   187,825                  224,375
VARIABLE COSTS
Grains                                    254     76,844           332      99,460      413          122,560          491    144,728
.ertilizer                                 67     26,398            81.8    32,229       98.6         38,848          118      46,492
Other inputs                         __   6_       5,846             8.1     8,456        9.7         10,127            12.1   12,632
Sub-total                    109,088                   140,145                   171,535                  203,852
Variable Margin                                    9,300                    12,361                    16,290                   20,523
(As percentage of revenue)                              7.9                      8.1                       8.7                      9.1
1ON-VARIABLE COSTS
Operating costs                                    6,327                     6,358                     6,724                    6,802      Table 7.
Depreciation                                        1,086                    1,355                     1,618                    1,720      3% on civil works, 10% on equipment.
Less: recovery of, TA costs          _850                                       850                      850                      850
Sub-total                       6,563                    6,863                     7,392                    7,672
Operating Margins                                  2,737                     5,948                     8,698                   12,851
(As percentage of revenue)                              2.3                      3.9                       4.6                      5.7
1,934                    2,754                     3,758                    4,782
INTEREST
Net income                                            803                    3,194                     4,94a                    8,069
(As percentage of revenue)                             0.7                       2.1                       2.6                      3.6
Transfer to Government                                723                    2,875                     4,446                    7,262      90%
Transfer to reserve fund                               80                      319                       494                      807
00
N3o



ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA                                Table 13
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Cash Flow Projection in Constant Prices
(Birr 000's)
1977/78    1978/79      1979/80      1980/81
CASH INFLOW
Equity                                              26,474       8,339        8,213        6,470
Revenue from operations                            118,388    152,506       187,825      224,375
Government subsidies:  grain imports                13,900      13,900       13,900       13,900
Fertilizer imports          18,000     21,500       26,000       31,000
Recovery of TA costs                                   850         850          850          850
Total cash inflow         177,612    197,095       236,798      276,595
CASH OUTFLOWT
Capital investments                                  9,474       8,339        8,213        6,470
Furchase of grains - direct & ECODD                 25,300      41,400       56,350       69,000
- state farms                   12,750      15,300       19,125       25,500
- import                        35,000      35,000       35,000       35,000
Purchase of fertilizers                             36,000      43,000       52,000       62,000
Purchase of other inputs                             5,400       8,100        9,000       11,700
ECODD commission on grain purchase                   2,750       4,500        6,125        7,500
Handling costs:  local grain                         4,720       7,080        9,440       11,800
imported grain                    12,400      12,400       12,400      12,400
fertilizers                       10,368      12,384       14,976      17,856
other inputs                         864       1,296        1,440        1,872
AIC Operating Costs                                  6,327       6,358        6,724        6,802
Trar.sfer to Government                                723       2,875        4,446        7,262
Interest payments                                    1,934       2,754        3,758       4,762
Loan repayment                                       6,000         -            -            -
Total cash outflow        170,010    200,786       238,997      279,924
SURPLUS/ (DEFICIT)                                     7,602      (3,691)      (2,199)      (3,329)
Opening cash balance         5,309     12,911        9,220        7,021
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                      12,911       9,220        7,021      (3,692)
January 28th, 1977



ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA                          Table 14
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
AMC Balance Sheet Projection in Constant Prices
(Birr 000's)
1976/77     1977/78    1978/79       1979/80      1980/81
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                            12,300       21,774      30,113       38,326       44,796
less depreciation                        -          1,086       2,441       4,059        5,776
Sub-total         12,300      20,688      27,672       34,267       39,020
Current Assets
Stocks
Grain                             5,690        7,866     10,186       12,166       14,738
Fertilizer                        6,540       8,510      10,165       12,293       14,657
Other inputs                      1,461       1,879       2,819        3,132        4,072
Sub-total        13,691       18,255      23,170       27,591       33,467
Bank and cash balance                 5,309        12,911       9,220        7,021       (3,692)
Sub-total        19,000        31,166     32,390       34,612       37,159
less Transfers to Government            -             723       2,875       4,446        7,262
less Short-term loans payable         6,000          -            -            -           -
Net working capital      13,0oo        30,443      29,515       30,166      29,897
Net assets               25,300        51,131      57,187       64,433      68,917
NET WORTH
AMC Equity                           25,300        50,951     56,868       63,939       68,110
Income from operations                 -              803      3,194        4,940        8,069
less Transfer to rovernment            -             (723)    (2,875)      (4,446)      (7,262)
Sub-total          -               80        319          494          807
Total Net Worth               25,300        51,131      57,187       64,433      68,917
January 21, 1977



ANNEX 8
ETHIOPIA                            Table 15
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Projected Build-up of AMC Issued Equity in Current Prices
(Birr 000's)
1976/77        1977/78      1978/79        1979/80       1980/81
A. Buildings
Balance                                        5,700        16,308         25,044        34,432
Construction                                   6,135         6,345          6,090         6,090
Physical Contingencies 1/                        614           635            609           609
Price Contingencies 2/                            859        1,756          2,689         3,734
Carried forward               5,700         13,308        22,044         31,432        41,865
B. Equipment
Balance                                        6,600         9,573         11,164        13,067
Procurement                                    2,477         1,235          1,376            37
Physical Contingencies 1/                        248           124            138             4
Price Contingencies 2/                           248           232            389            14
Carried forward               6,600          9,573        11,164         13,067        13,122
C. Permanent Trading Capital
Balance                                       13 000        30,000         30,000        30,000
Increase                                      17 000           -              -             -
Carried forward              13 ,000        30 ,000      30 ,000        30 ,000       30,000
TOTAL EQUITY                 23,300         5)2,881       63,208         74,499        84,932
1' Physical contingencies at 10%.
2/  Price contingencies (%) on both local and foreign costs
1976     -_977        _1978          1979          1980       1981
Civil Works         13         12           12           12            10          10
Equipment            9          8            8            8                         7
January 21, 1977.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Agricultural Marketing Corporation - Functional Organization
Minister of Agriculture
Board of Directors:
Chairman (Minister of Agriculture)
Head of ECODD
CHM, EGA
Representative of Ministry of Interior
Representative of NBE
General Manager AMC
General Manager AMC
Deputy General Manager
PlanniAg and PrAgnrammintg eaeentional Depent:                         C                                 Legal SectionD
Budget andAccounting,mfinanci ngCoronstruction,lnes m aintenac- anLAsebenrieanoratonOertineftrckfle
larly storage construction program, utilising back-                                                      Lease, purchase and sales contracts
ground material supplied by EGA'xs market intelligence
Department .
Internal performPnce evaluation
Supervision of branches .qualAudit
Adm. and Accounts Departments:                     Technical Department:                      Comme Bcial Department:                                    Transport Department:
Budget aznd Accounting, financing                 Construction, maintenance and                   Assemble price information                             Operation of truck fleet
(working cap. )                                  reBting of stores                               Pricing                                                Assistance to branches
Cashiers office                                    Stock management (pest control,                 Sales strategy inTl. movemerit of                     Tendering for transports
Personnel                                          turn over,separation of grades                  stocks between brancbes and retailingA  supervision.f
Procurement                                         and varieties )                                Exports and imports                                   Maintenance of vehicles
Import/Export documentation                                                                        Procurement of domestic inputs
Shipping etc.                                                                                      (e.g. seed).  Delivery plans for
inputs and imports.
Supervision of branches incl. quality
prescriptions and control.
Branch offices:                             Branch Advisory Committees
Buying and selling/                          Representative of producers
Transport within region                       and consumers.
_    _ __________________________Annual review of Branch perfor-
mance aLnd plans
DeT Te rar  retail outlets |
December 15, 1976.                                                                                                                                                           n |mc



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
MARKETING REGULATION AND IMPROVEMENT
A. Changes in the Marketing Structure
1.        An analysis of the existing marketing structure and its performance
was presented in Annex 1, and the grain marketing policy of the Ethiopian Gov-
ernment was outlined in Annex 3. Commercially marketed production is expected
to increase from about 700,000 MT in 1975/76 to over 1.1 million MT in 1980/81.
At the end of the Project period private trade would still handle over 50% of
the commercially marketed grain production and outside the selected MPP areas
it would provide the sole channel for the marketing of peasant production.
It is thus of considerable importance to promote efficient performance in
the private sector. Under the Project a start would be made in this process
by the strengthening of the regulation of the private trade and the progressive
implementation of improved standards, together with the initiation of a program
of market infrastructure improvement, as detailed in sections C and D below.
It would also be necessary to ensure that private traders have access to long
term credit for investment in storage improvements and to bank credit for
working capital.
B. Wholesale Trade Regulation
2.        Regulation of the wholesale trade is to ensure that the operations
of the private wholesaler conform to Government policy and complement the
activities of AMC. From the point of view of AMC, it would be essential for
it to have regular and reliable information as to the operations of private
wholesalers at the major trading centers so as to plan its stock movements
and selling policy.
3.        There will be a need for careful definition of the term "wholesaler"
although those previously acting as major stockists on terminal markets are
relatively few and well-known. In general terms, a wholesaler may be defined
as one whose trading operations involve stockholding for sale later in the
season and/or in another province, and whose resources and scale of operations
exceed limits prescribed by the licensing authority. Quantitative limits,
which may well vary from one terminal market to another, will be necessary
in order to focus attention on major operators and to avoid overburdening
the licensing authority, particularly in the early stages of operation of the
system. As an indication, the minimum storage limit for a registered whole-
saler is likely to be in the range 500 - 1,000 tons. AMC, cooperative socie-
ties and development project marketing units (e.g., the marketing division
of the Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit - CADU) would also be subject
to licensing.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        This licensing of wholesalers would be the responsibility of the
Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) which already undertakes similar functions in
relation to private exporters. EGA would consult the relevant local authori-
ties before deciding on applications. The main conditions applying to the
issue of licenses to wholesalers would be: -
(a) that they possess the necessary resources (financing, storage
and staff);
(b) that they undertake to maintain records of purchases, sales,
movements and stocks of grain in a manner to be prescribed by
EGA and to submit regular reports based on these records to
EGA;
(c) that they utilize for their stockholding operations only
stores which have been licensed by EGA and in which specified
minimum standards of storage hygiene and pest control are
observed. Each licensed store will be required to display its
licence and contain a store register of stocks and stock
movements (in a form prescribed by EGA); and
(d) that they permit authorized officers of EGA to inspect their
stores and store registers at any time.
It is considered that the fees to be charged for wholesalers and store licenses
should be fixed at a nominal level and that licences would need to be renewed
annually.
C. Intermediate Trade
5.        Elsewhere in the marketing chain, licensing by function appears to
be neither feasible nor fruitful, and the best approach would be to build
on and improve the existing local licensing system of local authorities
(involving some 4-8,000 traders in urban markets: Annex 1) by:
(a) giving to EGA overall powers to regulate and supervise the
activities of these local authorities with respect to
marketing of grain, oilseeds and pulses:
(b) linking the implementation of these powers with the proposals
for market infrastructure improvement (section D below);
(c) making the issue of a licence by a local authority conditional
on the maintenance of minimum rudimentary standards of storage
hygiene and pest control, and subject to withdrawal if
malpractice is proven. Here, EGA would act as a court of
appeal in cases where a local authority refused to issue or
withdrew a licence: and



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(d) assisting local authorities in the provision and training of
their enforcement officers.
6.        Because of the variety of existing local quality and weight stand-
ards (Annex 1) the best means for improvement lie not in any attempt to
enforce prescribed standards throughout the country but in:
(a) the adoption of proper weights and rudimentary quality standards
based on impurity content, both by the ECODD controlled alter-
native marketing channel and by AMC in its operations; and
(b) the provision of weighing and cleaning facilities as part of
market infrastructure improvements. The efficacy of this
approach has already been demonstrated at CADU.
7.        According to past marketing studies, private traders outside the
terminal markets had difficulty in gaining access to institutional credit to
finance both capital improvements (e.g., warehouses) and current operations.
It has been agreed, therefore, that in the future the commercial banks (now
nationalized) would give consideration to the reasonable credit needs of
licensed private traders also outside terminal markets. A trader obtaining
a licence under the new system would have a prima facie mark of approval,
and it is suggested that EGA should work out arrangements with the commercial
banks that would facilitate access to bank credit by licensed traders.
D. Market Infrastructure Improvement
8.        The Ministry of Interior has adopted master plans for 80 of the
210 municipalities and these plans provide for zoning and improvement of
urban markets. An interministerial committee, on which EGA is represented,
exists to study the implementation of such market improvements but through
lack of funds, little progress has been made as yet. Some municipal
authorities however have attempted to improve market facilities (e.g., open
storage facilities are rented to traders for day-to-day operations at Addis
Ababa).
9.        The project would include provision for a "Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund" (MIIF) to be administered by the Market Improvement Section,
of the new Internal Marketing Department of EGA. During the first phase,
the main tasks of this section would be to:
(1) draw up a plan for utilizing the fund and determining priorities
with reference to such factors as:
(a) present and likely future market throughputsz
(b) present condition of market facilities;
(c) other considerations, such as town plan imple-
mentation operations.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(2) On the basis of this review, submit to the Board of Directors
of EGA proposals for selected markets, covering such items as:
(a) nature and cost of improvements, including:
(i)  road access;
(ii)  enclosing and paving of market area;
(iii) construction of stores for rent;
(iv)  provision of general facilities, e.g., offices,
shops, toilets, water, etc.
(v)  provision of special facilities, e.g., scales,
weighbridge, cleaners;
(vi)  training of enforcement staff.
(b)  financing arrangements, including participation by the
local authority concerned and loan from the Market Infra-
structure Improvement Fund.
(c)  conditions attaching to the proposed MIIF contribution in
such matters as:
(i)  market fees;
(ii)  rents for stores;
(iii) loan repayment;
(iv)  supervision of market operations;
(v)  operation of public scales and cleaning facilities.
E. Institutional Considerations
10.       EGA will have the primary responsibility for the implementation of
the regulatory measures outlined in sections B and C above, as well as for
the market improvement program described in section D. To carry out these
tasks, a new "Internal Marketing Department" would be created within EGA.
Details of the complete organizational, staffing, legal and financiai changes
necessary to enable EGA to implement the market regulation and improvement
proposals, as well as the market intelligence and analysis operations (Annex
10) for which it is to be responsible, are set out in Annex 12.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
MARKET INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYSIS
A. Present Position (See also Annex 1)
(a) Production and Consumption
1.        Ethiopia presently lacks a coordinated system for regularly esti-
mating and reporting statistics on agricultural production 1/ and consumption.
Both published and unpublished statistical information on food production
is largely based on calculated guesswork; and is likely to be of only limited
value to a national grain marketing organization.  Updating of such informa-
tion is rare and spasmodic. Where and when this has been done, it is usually
in the form of projections, based largely on hypothetical, or assumed situa-
tions. Consumption statistics are also unreliable. Food consumption surveys
and nutritional case studies have been conducted, but the large variations in
environmental conditions and dietary habits make it almost impossible to
arrive at accurate, or even reasonably meaningful consumption aggregates.
Again, updating of the sparse data available has been spasmodic and often
based on unverified assumptions.
(b) Price Statistics
2.        Information on crop prices is being collected almost exclusively
at the wholesale level and very little is known about actual producer and
retail prices. 2/ Whatever price data are gathered are neither properly
analysed nor disseminated. There is duplication of effort and no attempt is
made to resolve conflicting results. Some details of presently available
data are presented below.
Producer Prices
3.        Information on prices received by producers for grains, oilseeds
and pulses is not being systematically collected. The major development
projects are monitoring some prices in their areas. CADU, for example, has
1/   The annual "Agricultural Sample Survey" of the Ministry of
Agriculture initiated in 1975 means an improvement in this
respect, but the sample size needs to be expanded to allow
definite conclusions.
2/   Most wholesale and retail prices are presently Government-
controlled but the degree of enforcement of such prices is
not known.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
kept records of its own purchasing and selling prices and, since 1969, has
been recording weekly market price quotations of traders in Chilalo. Special
surveys or studies occasionally also include data on producer price. 1/ But
for the vast majority of rural areas no statistics are being collected and,
in most cases, not even "informed guesses" on farm gate prices and trader's
margins are possible.
Wholesale Prices
4.        Three series of wholesale prices are compiled independently by the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC), (and formerly by The Ethiopian
Grain Corporation, (EGC), the Ethiopian Grain Agency (EGA) and the National
Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). These price series are difficult to compare because
of the two calendars used and usually differ on price quotations. 2/ The
deviations in these prices are not consistent as to either direction or
magnitude and it is difficult to establish which of the series is the most
accurate. Some of the reported price differentials are explained by the
different timing of census taking, i.e., time of day and day of month.
While the data provide a fair indication of the overall level of wholesale
prices, they conceal frequent wide fluctuations within the reporting month.
Retail Prices
5.        The only regular series on retail prices is compiled for Addis Ababa
by the Central Statistical Office. These prices are based on at least six
quotations from various parts of the town and are collected primarily for
the purpose of calculating the retail price index in Ethiopia. Selected
retail prices as well as index are published regularly. Retail prices in
other markets are collected on an ad hoc basis only for purposes of special
studies.
1/   Manig, Winfried, Marketing of Selected Agricultural Commodities in the
Baco Area, Ethiopia, Cornel University, 1973.
Thodey, A.R., Marketing of Grain and Pulses in Ethiopia, Stanford Research
Institute, Report No. 16, 1969. Eubanks, Ken, Findings of a Market
Structure Survey and Analysis of those Grains that Provide the Basic
Subsistence for the People of Ethiopia. Ministry of Agriculture, 1973.
2/   The following prices, for example, were reported for September, 1974:
Wholesale Prices, Addis Ababa
EGC         EGA            NBE
(Birr per quintal)
White Teff                37.60        36.72        41.00
White Wheat               26.17        30.40        26.75
Barley                    20.10        19.72        18.25
Maize                      17.19       18.80        17.87
Sorghum                   26.32        28.32        22.50
Horse beans               23.19        23.68        23.00
Chickpeas                 27.52        28.42        27.50



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Export - Import Prices
6.        Price series on an f.o.b. basis do not exist.  Averages may be
calculated, however, from external, trade statistics published bq the Customs
Office.  The Ethiopian Grain Agencyalso has relevant information, as all
exports of cereals, pulses and oilseeds are licensed and the licensing docu-
ments specify contractual selling prices, but no summaries from these records
are made. NBE produces separate series of prices of selected export and
import commodities, but these are Addis Ababa wholesale prices which are
unadjusted for costs accruing inside Ethiopian borders.
7.        To summarize, there exists at present unnecessary duplication in
the collection of wholesale prices, while at all other market levels informa-
tion on prices is either highly inadequate or nonexistent. Whatever statis-
tics on prices exist are unreliable, and not adequately analysed and publicized.
Traders commonly distrust all sources indicated above and rely largely on their
own sources for information. For the trade, the reporting frequency also
is not sufficient, while for the producers terminal market prices are not
easily translatable into rural market or farm gate prices. Researchers find
it difficult to establish price profiles by piecing together information from
various sources because of the many inconsistencies. As a result, the pricing
performance of the trade has never been sufficiently analysed and the price
structure is not well known.
(c) Other Marketing Information
8.        Statistics as to produce flows and inventories are presently lacking
and "guesstimates" as to the extent to which provinces are surplus or deficit
in each crop vary greatly. Lack of this basic information makes it difficult
to plan market infrastructure improvement and storage investment. Informa-
tion on transport costs on main highways is available in such organizations
as Ethiopian Highway Authority, National Transport Company, and the Ministry
of Transport, but needs to be properly collated and supplemented by more detail
as to transport costs on other roads, where information is presently lacking.
A program for obtaining information on a continuing basis on costs for other
elements, such as storage losses, pest control, sacks, labor, interest rates,
should also be instituted, so that trading margins at various stages in the
marketing chain can be checked. The capacity, location and quality of storage
facilities are also inadequately known. 1/
B. Project Proposals
9.        The proposals set out below have been designed with the following
main aims in view: -
1/   See however Eubanks op. cit.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(i) to provide Government with a progressively improving factual
basis on which it can take major policy decisions, particularly
in such matters as price levels, imports, buffer stocking,
subsidies (on both imported grain and fertilizers) as indicated
in Annex 4;
(ii)  to give AMC the necessary information as to price movements,
stocks and produce flows to enable it to plan its operations;
(iii) to provide AMC with necessary information to determine the
location and size of new storage facilities;
(iv)  to provide EGA with information on which to formulate a
program for the utilization of the Market Infrastructure
Improvement Fund (Annex 9);
(v) to permit long-term planning particularly in preparation for
follow up to the Project when the emphasis is likely to be
on buffer stocking operations: and
(vi)  to achieve these aims by avoiding duplication of effort, by
defining specific areas of responsibility for both data collec-
tion and its coordination and analysis. In this way, monitoring
and evaluation of the Project as a whole would be built-in.
10.       The main responsibility for bringing together all marketing informa-
tion and data and for analysing it will be vested in the Ethiopian Grain Agency
(EGA). For this purpose, withinEGA a new "Market Intelligence Department"
will be established and the principal functions of this Department and its
relationship with agencies operating in the same field are outlined below.
(a) Data Collection
11.       Crop Forecasting is a responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Settleuent and ln Annex 11 are set out details of how under the Project
the present service would be strengthened. The Marketing Intelligence Departs-
ment would maintain close liaison with MOA's crop reporting service and
receive crop reports as soon as they are compiled and in advance of their
general publication and distribution.
12.       Wholesale Market Prices.  AMC would be made responsible for the
compilation of the official wholesale price series at the main terminal markets
(branches) as it needs this information as a basis for its day-to-day opera-
tions. AMC would pass this information on to EGA's Market Intelligence
Department in an agreed form and at agreed intervals. EGA would cease its
present compilation of wholesale price data.
13.       At lesser wholesale markets where AMC is not represented, local
authorities would be encouraged by EGA to compile price statistics on a uni-
form basis as to frequency and coverage, which EGA's Market Intelligence
Department would collate.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
14.       Producer Prices.  As a first step towards the collection of producer
prices on a continuing basis, ECODD will collect primary market price
data and make these available to EGA. The experience gained at the Chilalo
Agricultural Development Unit (CADU) in compiling such primary market price
series will be utilized in developing an appropriate methodology.
150       Retail Prices.  Responsibility for the collection of retail price
statistics would continue to rest with the Central Statistical Office (CSO).
EGA and CSO would consult to improve and extend the present coverage.
16.       Export - Import Prices.  EGA's Market Intelligence Department will
commence the compilation of f.o.b. or c,i.f. price series for export and
import commodities calculated on an average basis from external trade statis-
tics published by the Customs Office, supplemented by information from AMC
experience and contract prices for exports of cereals, pulses and oilseeds
obtained from EGA's licensing documents. World market price information and
freight statistics would also continue to be recorded by EGA. Internal
marketing costs for exports and imports would be collected to permit the
calculation of export and import parity prices.
17.       Grain Trade.  Returns made by major wholesalers licensed by EGA under
the market regulation and improvement measures set out in Annex 9 will serve
two major purposes, viz.
(a) They would provide information, at present lacking, on the
amount of grain moving in commercial channels, the spatial
distribution of supply and demand and thus produce flows and
available storage facilities. Such information will improve
the basis for planning new storage facilities.
(b) They would provide information about variations in purchases
and stocks at a particular location which together with price
information may alert AMC to the necessity of interregional
transfers.
18.       As the influence of EGA over local market authorities increases,
uniform systems of reporting traders' activities in these markets would be
instituted and the Market Intelligence Department would collate such returns
which would eventually supplement the information on stock movements in
major centers (para. 17).
19.       Other Marketing Information.  The Marketing Intelligence Department
would be responsible for collating and supplementing information on transport
costs on a continuing basis. It would also institute a program for gathering
information at regular intervals on other marketing cost elements, such as
storage construction and operation, pest control, sacks, labor, interest rates,
etc., so that trading margins at various stages in the marketing chain eventual-
ly can be monitored.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
(b) Market Research
20.       As a basis for longer term policy, it would be necessary to make
supply/demand analysis and projections. On the demand side, existing material 1/
on such subjects as population growth, income distribution, the rate of urbani-
zation, living standards, nutritional programs and consumption pattern changes
would need to be collated. As regards supply, production changes (particularly
in the immediate future those caused by the land reform measures); producer
incentives, comparative advantage and response to demand/price changes would
need to be studied. 2/ It would also be necessary to take world market trends
into account, especially through the calculation of parity analyses; and to
monitor, on a continuing basis, world commodity prices. There will have to
be proper liaison, wherever this research overlaps with similar studies being
undertaken in other institutions, such as the Planning Commission and the
Economic Commission for Africa.
21.       The main aims of the market research would be to assist in general
with longer-term planning of the marketing development programs, and, in
particular:
(a) to provide a basis for assessing priorities in the
implementation of the Market Infrastructure Improvement
Fund (Annex 9);
(b) to make an economic evaluation of project performance
under the Project. Key variables would be:
Mi) Seasonal price variation in producer, wholesale and
retail prices,
(ii) Year to year price variation,
(iii) Producer incentives for use of recommended inputs,
(iv) Marketing margins in private and public trade,
(v) Volume of grain handled by AMC,
1/   Such basic material is unfortunately woefully deficient, but it would
be beyond the scope of the Project to remedy this (e.g. to conduct a
population census); close cooperation on these aspects would have to be
sought from such organizations as the Central Statistical Office.
2/   Crop sampling surveys are instituted by CADU and ECODD offer the best means
of improving yield statistics, and will need to be supplemented by similar
studies to progressively improve production statistics (see "Crop Fore-
casting" - Annex 11) and should be designed also to monitor changes in
cultivation patterns.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
(vi) Marketing practices in public and private trade,
(vii) Availability of inputs at the right time and place,
(viii) AMC's economic results;
(c)  to provide the economic background for the preparation
of proposals for a follow-up Phase. Under the assump-
tion that Ethiopia will have regained self-sufficiency
in grain production by 1985, a major objective of any
such follow-up Phase is likely to be the operation of
a buffer stocking program to even out production
variations, which would involve special storage needs;
and
(d)  to supply analyses of changing demand patterns, both
internal and external, which can be utilized in the
establishment of agricultural production priorities.
(c) Market Analysis
22.       For short term purposes, emphasis should be on the provision of
improved and better analyzed factual material, on which Government marketing
policy in each crop year can be based. Against the background of longer-term
trends as forecast by market research (see above) and improved crop forecasts,
the data collected should be interpreted both before and during the crop year,
to assess the need for imports (to meet a production deficit) or for exports
or buffer stocking (after a "good" harvest), and for the correction of regional
supply/demand imbalances. In the case of pulses and oilseeds, the analysis
would also need to concentrate on overseas market prospects and price trends,
since these are determining factors in internal price formation and therefore
in the allocation of total production between domestic marketed production
and exports. In addition, there should be timely and frequent publication of
the improved market information in forms designed to serve both traders and
producers.
C. Organizational Considerations
23.       The combination of market intelligence functions in the institution
(EGA) also responsible for market regulation and supervision has considerable
advantages. EGA's relation with market authorities (municipalities), super-
vision of their licensing activities and the assistance to be given to them
in making market infrastructure improvements (Annex 9), should facilitate
data collection. In turn, feed-back from the Market Research, Intelligence
and Analysis Department, would assist in the proper planning of disbursements
from the Market Infrastructure Improvement Fund.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
24.       To carry out the functions outlined above, a new "Marketing Intelli-
gence Department" would be established within EGA. Details of the complete
organizational, staffing, legal and financial changes necessary to equip EGB
to carry out these marketing intelligence functions, as well as its new res-
ponsibilities for market regulation and improvement (Annex 9) are set out in
Annex 12.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
CROP FORECASTING
Background
1.        Crop forecasting, an essential prerequisite for the success of any
proposed Government market interve.ntion, has been attempted in the past by
a number of different agencies -- often resulting in considerable duplication
of effort. The results frequenLtly have been of doubtful validity, because
of the underlying difficulties facing crop forecasting in Ethiopia, which
include:
(a) the paucity of reliable basic data as to population, land
holdings, cropping components, production, etc.;
(b) the fact that produc:tion has been largely in the hands of
a very large number of small subsistence-type farmers;
(c) the weakness of the administrative machine, particularly
at field level; and
(d) the existence of viuTnerous microclimatic zones, so that
areas of localized cirop failure can occur when production
elsewhere is normal,, as happened during the recent
famine in Wollo End Tigre provinces.
2.        Under Ethiopian conditions, the objectives o' any crop forecasting
syste_m should be:
(a) to provide rqltab le information on which Government can plan
its marketing pol icy before and during a crcop season9 e.g.,
to arrange for imtports if a crop deficit is forecast or to
make plans for bu ffer stockiTg in the case cf a bumper crop;
and
(b)  to act as an "earKty warning system" of localized crop failures,
permitting relief. measures to be planned and implemented in time.
The Present PositiQn
3.        Since 1971/72, th4 Agricultgral Statistics DivFision of the Planning
and Programming Department (-f the Ministry of Agriculture has attempted to
build up a crop report-ing s' ratem bgsed on the appointment of members of the
local administration staff i is Woreda (i.e., sub-district:) reporting officers.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
With superv,sion from Addis Ababa, the survey covered about one third (131
out of total of 431) of all woredas but these included the more important
producing areas. Reports took the form of subjective judgements of total
crop production expressed in such terms as:  "above average", "average"
"below at/erage" and "substantially below average", where "average" remained
unquanti,fied.
4.        In 1971/72 (E.C. 1964), reports were based on one preharvest visit
by mobile teams sent from Addis Ababa. In 1972/73, reports were prepared
at three stages, corresponding to the germination, maturity and harvest
peric,ds. Rudimentary as this sytem was, it did identify critical areas in
Tigre and Wollo provinces, and in view of this, a special assessment of the
197'3 "belg" or small rains crop was made, in which particular attention was
pal-d to rainfall data as an indicator of crop performance, and this confirmed
the emergence of famine conditions.
5e.       The following conclusion was reached in the report entitled "A
policy and action plan for strengthening national food security in Ethiopia." 1/
"It appears from the above information that although the embryo crop report-
ing system was quite capable of providing timely varning of serious crop
failures, it had not been built into any officia:l:Ly recognized system for
regularly assessing the country's state of food atnd agriculture. Action was
not taken on the early warning provided by the crop report of adverse weather
conditions and indeed was delayed until the seriottsness of the situation
became apparent by the appearance of starving people and dead animals."
6.        Within the Relief and Rehabilitation Coiimission (RRC), a centre
has been set up for the collection and analysis of field reports from all
other sources, together with available meteorologic&Ll data. Whenever this
examination suggests that crop failure conditions are appearing, special
reconnaissance teams are t', be sent to investigate the situation in the
area(s) concerned.
7.        As part of the internal evaluation of the programmes of the
Extension and Cooperativ! Development Department (EUCODD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Settlemenit, crop sampling surveys hare been instituted in
Minimum Package Programmet areas. In 1973/74, sampl es were collected from
26 of these areas and 14 Demonstration Areas (i.e., virtually all of ECODD
field areas in 1973), by ECODD marketing assistants   under a scheme prepared
and supervised by ECODD Headquarters.  Improvements  in the methodology used
in these crop sampling sturveys and in the interpret.sLtion of their results are
currently under examinationr at ECODD Headquarters flcir incorporation in future
surveys.  Although primarily designed to show the Etffects of the use of
fertilizer, the results Df these surveys provide sw3me useful data on average
yields by crop and district which over time would ;allow more precise forecasts
1/ FAo Report ES C/FSIP/ETH, November 1974.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
of production. With some training the survey staff could be utilized (see
para. 11C) to provide crop forecasts for the areas concerned, without prejudice
to their primary duties.
8.        Rural Sample Surveys conducted by the Central Statistical Office
since 1963, have produced estimates of the areas under vaious crops, pri-
marily in the small scale farming sector, in the provinces surveyed. Coupled
with yield estimates suggested by the Institute of Agricultural Research,
these results have been used to supply the production figures used in the
national accounts. 1/
Future Needs
9.        A technical working group, on which were represented the Civil
Aviation Administration (Meteorogological Service), the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Settlement (ECODD and PPD), the Livestock and Meat Board, the
Central Statistical Office and Ministry of Education, prepared a report,
dated June 2, 1975, on "Data Collection related to factors affecting food
production and human nutrition in Ethiopia". The report proposes the esta-
blishment of a regular reporting system of major parameters affecting food
production with a view to predicting areas of food deficit and surplus. As
part of this "Consolidated Food and Nutrition Information System (CFNIS)",
the Ministry of Agriculture would extend the coverage of its present crop
reporting service but, as of July, 1975, no additional budgetary resources
had been allocated to implement this proposal.
10.       Although the emphasis in these proposals is on information on which
relief operations can be based, there is an equally urgent need to improve
and strengthen the crop reporting system, thereby permitting the Government
to make soundly based decisions on marketing policy (Annex 4) and assisting
the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) in executing that policy. The
project proposals outlined below have been framed with both objectives in
view.
Project Proposals
11.       The project proposals may be summarized as follows:
(a) the existing unit within the Agricultural Statistics Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement which is at
present responsible for crop reporting should be put on a
permanent basis under the title of "Crop Information Unit". 2/
1/   In 1975 the Ministry of Agriculture initiated an annual "Agricultural
Sample Survey" with yield estimates based on crop cuttings.
2/   Established in February 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(b) this Crop Information Unit should cease to rely on mobile reporting
teams and instead operate through trained local reporters as
indicated in (c) and (d) below.
(c) In ECODD areas, staff responsible for crop sampling should,
with additional training, be made responsible for making
regular crop reports which would be fed back to the Crop
Information Unit.
(d)  outside ECODD areas, reporters would be selected and trained
to make crop reports at specified intervals. These reports
would be summarized and transmitted as quickly as possible
to the Crop Information Unit at Addis Ababa by MoA provincial
offices.
(e) crop reports from both ECODD and non-ECODD areas should be on
a uniform basis and should be made at specified intervals, not
less than three times corresponding to sowing, germination
and maturing periods of the crops concerned.
(f) in addition to these crop reports, the Crop Information Unit
would collect relevant data (e.g., meteorological information)
from other sources.
12.       The main responsibilities of the Crop Information Unit will be:
(a) to collate these crop reports;
(b) to produce interim summaries as soon as possible and to
pass them to:
(i) the new Market Intelligence Department of EGA
(Annex 10) so that they can be included in the reviews
on which Government will make decisions on marketing
policy;
(ii) AMC to assist it in planning its operations to implement
Government's marketing policy; and
(iii)  the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission to enable it to
investigate further any indications of incipient crop
failure in particular areas.
(c) to publish eventually a series of crop reports.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
13.       To carry out these tasks the Crop Information Unit would need to
be strengthened by the provision of:
(a) an internationally recognized expert to act as head of the Crop
Information Unit for three years. During this period he would
be required to:
(i) design and institute improved crop reporting procedures;
(ii) devise training schemes for crop reporters in both ECODD
and non-ECODD areas and assist in their implementation;
(iii) establish appropriate transmission channels;
(iv) prepare and install proper collating and publication
procedures at Crop Information Unit Headquarters; and
(v) train his Ethiopian deputy who could take over from him at
the end of his assignment;
(b) vehicles to supervise the data collection;
(c) additional office equipment and Headquarters for the summarizing
and analysis of field reports;
(d) training facilities for all crop reporting field staff; and
(e) funds to employ local reporters in non-ECODD areas.
14.       The Project would also fund a study to explore the possibilities
of using remote sensing techniques utilizing earth satellite images for
crop forecasting in Ethiopia. Ten areas with varying agro-ecological condi-
tions and with information about yields and area cultivated would be selec-
ted. Satellite images for two different years (preharvest season) would be
analyzed for each area in order to determine the possibilities of distinguish-
ing changes in area devoted to grain cultivation, changes in area of specific
grain crops and changes in yields due to weather fluctuation and/or improved
cultivation practices.
15.       The costs for the Crop Information Unit are itemized in Table 1.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Crop Information Unit
re      ~~Unit                                    7118/1                  Total  Fr        rr
Grade         Cit          19i7/78       1978/79    19780        190r1Exch.   Fxch.
-   ~~~gfrlr 1Brr_________________________   (    To t-~:L
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
4wheel drive vehbcles                      19,000          (2)38,000        _           -                   38,000  75      22500
Calculators                                 1,750          (3) 5,250       _            _          _         5,250  80       4,2(c
Typewriter (English)                        3,000               3,000      _             _         _         3,000  80       4,203
.(Amharic)                     3,000          (2) 6,ooo       _             _         _         6,ooo  3O|  4800
Office furniture                            2,.800              2,800       . _          _         _         28o00  40        1,120_
Total                                                                  - =  =                          5%Qg0   75        1 00l
B.  OPERATING COSTS
(a) Salarles & Wages:
Chief of Unit             Expa-                                  .
triat      100,000             100,000  100,000        100,000        -     300,000   75   225,000
Local Counterpart          PS3                             9,480    9,480         10,020! 10,020       39,0001 _          _
Typist                    CF9                           (2)9,480   9,480          10,080i 10,080       39,120   -         -
.~~~~~~~_               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    .                                       _ ._ __ _ __ _ _  I-,
Sub-total(a)                                           118,960  118,960        120,100   20,100   378,120    60   j 225,000
(b) Miscellaneous:
Training costs
incl. transport                                                                           I
(i) ECODD staff                  Birr 30 (3 days                                         I                                            tD
@10.-)        (350)10,500        _     (350)10,500        _       21.0001 --         _
(ii) Non-ECODD staff              Birr 30 (3 days
@ 10.-)        (500)15,000        -     (500)15,000.       -       30,000  -   I   -
December 15, 1976.              1                                                                           1



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Crop Information Unit
,(Continfue
Unit                                                                                        Foreign      Foreign
Grade     Cost        1977/78          1978/79          1979/80           1980/81          Total       Exchange    Exchange
%          Total
Vehicle Operating Costs
25,000 km @ Birr 0.40                                     (2) 20,000        (2) 20,000        (2) 20,000      (2) 20,000         80,000         75         60,000
Subsistance                                                      2,430            2,430             2,490            1,140         8,490          -            -
Office Supplies                                                  3,600            3,600              3,600           3,600        14,400         40          5,760
Part time payment to crop
reporters in non-ECODD areas                     240   (500)120,000    (500)120,000         (500)120,000   (500)120,000         480,000          -             -
Utilities, rent, telephone 1/                                     -                -                 -               -               -  
Sub-total (b)                                          171,530          146,030            171,590        144,740        633,890          10         65,760
Total (a + b)                                          290.49o          264,990            291,69o        164,840       1,012,010         29        290,760
C.  Remote Sensing                                             30,000            30,000            40,000          50,000        150,000          75       112,500
GRAND TOTAL  (A,B,C)             375,540          294,990            331,690        214,840      1,217,060          35       444,280
Not provided since unit will be located in MoA.
December 15, 1976.                                                                                                                                           I 3



ANNEX 12
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
ETHIOPIAN GRAIN AGENCX
1.        Because the regulation of agricultural trade falls within the ambit
of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Commerce, the Ethiopian
Grain Agency (EGA) was established as a separate agency on which both ministries
as well as other interests were represented. Although its activities were
formerly largely confined to the regulation and improvement of export trade
(Annex 1)> EGA would be the most appropriate existing authority to assume
responsibility for the regulation and improvement of domestic marketing
(Annex 9) and for the market intelligence services (Annex 10) proposed under
the Project, and recent legislation has given EGA powers in these areas.
Board
2.        Under the Project proposals, the main policy matters that the Board
of EGA would have to consider are:
(a) the control and supervision of private exporters (as at present);
(b) the institution and operation of the new licensing system for
private wholesalers (minimum conditions, approval of applications,
review of licences, etc.);
(c) the supervision of local authorities in the improvement of
their market control;
(d) the operation of the Market Infrastructure 'mprovement Fund; and
(e) the submission of factual data (prepared by the Market Intelligence
Department) and recommendations to enable Government to make
marketing policy decisions in respect of upper and lower tolerance
price limits, imports of grain, the level of subsidies on grain and
fertilizer imports and (in a bumper harvest year) buffer-stocking
arrangements.
3.        The Board of Directors of EGA includes representatives of Ministry
of Commerce and Tourism (Chairman), the Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement,
and the National Bank, together with the Executive Chairman of the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) and the General Manager of EGA. The Board should
establish advisory committees of producers, consumers and private traders in
consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs, and the Chamber of Commerce respectively, which it would consult on
major policy matters.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.        Since EGA's major functions are in the field of trade regulation
it is responsible to the Minister of Commerce and Tourism who appoints its
General Manager. Recommendations to the Government on price policy, imports
and subsidies however would be submitted jointly with the Minister of
Agriculture and Settlement to ensure that production considerations are
fully taken into account. As at present, the Board would delegate responsibi-
lity for the execution of its policy decisions, for day-to-day operations and
for control of staff, to the General Manager.
Reorganization of EGA Headquarters
5.        The proposed new organization for ECK as a whole is shown in Chartl
1. An outline of the main duties of the new Departments is given below.
(a) Market Intelligence Department
Under the Departmental Head, the work of this Department will
be carried out by two Sections, each with a Section head,
deputy and two statisticians. The division of responsibilities
between these two sections would be as indicated below:
(i) Data Section
with the main tasks of coordinating the improvement in
the quality and extension of the coverage of price
series, of collating information on grain trade and
of assembling other marketing information (Annex 10).
(ii)  Market Analysis and Research Section
to be responsible for a continuing review of market
developments primarily to provide a basis on which
Government can base its policy decisions before and
during each season and to disseminate market information
to traders and producers. This section would also be
responsible for carrying out the longer term planning
tasks outlined in Annex 109 including providing a factual
basis for programming and operations of the Market
Infrastructure Improvement Fund (MIIF) and for monitor-
ing and evaluating performance under the project.
During the initial phase, when work programs and pro-
cedures are being established, the posts of Department
and Section heads may be filled by internationally
recruited staff who, in the remaining period of their
contract, would hand over executive responsibility



ANNEX 12
Page 3
and act as advisers to the Ethiopian counterparts they
would have trained. Association with a suitable
university for the recruitment of these staff and
continuing discussion of the research program should
be considered.
(b) Internal Marketing Department
It is visualized that this would consist of three sections
whose responsibilities are outlined below:
(i) Licensing Section
The Licensing Section would handle the licensing of
wholesale traders, set regulations for storage standards
and record-keeping by licensed grain wholesalers and
work closely with the EGA Market Intelligence Depart-
ment to improve private trade record keeping. Pre-
scribed storage and grain handling standards would be
enforced by frequent visits of licensing officers.
The level of fines and the period of suspension for
various violations will be codified in a published
set of regulations.
(ii) Local Markets Section
The Local Markets Section would work with local authorities
in setting up codes for storage hygiene, pest control and
trading conduct. The objective would be to have the
authorities monitor local traders and to enforce the
storage standard and trading conduct rules. The Local
Markets Section would avoid the direct regulation of
local markets and only provide advisory assistance and
technical expertise to local authorities. Possible MIIF
finance should be an inducement for local authorities to
establish and enforce market codes.
(iii) Market Improvement Section
The operation of the proposed Market Infrastructure Improve-
ment Fund (MIIF) would be the main concern of this section.
Its first task would be to assess priorities and establish
a program for MIIF, based on information supplied by the
Market Intelligence Department, and in consultation with
the interministerial committee (Annex 9) and local authorities.
Because of the preparatory work involved, no major dis-
bursements from the MIIF are likely to be made in the



ANNEX 12
Page 4
first Project year. The Market Improvement Section
would provide engineering and technical support to local
authorities in the preparation of plans for market
improvements and in the submission of applications for
loans from the MIIF for consideration by the Board of
Directors of EGB. Loans from the fund exceeding
Birr 50,000 would be notified to IDA and any
disbursement from MIIF would be matched by at least an
equal amount of finance from the local authority con-
cerned. In the cost projections it is assumed that
40 loans would be made in all during the three
final years of the Project. During the first year
Birr 50,000 is expected to be used on a grant basis to
establish a weighing service at selected local markets
which would enable farmers to check the offers made by
traders. The posts of Departmental Head and Head of the
Market Improvement Section may be filled initially by
internationally recruited staff who would be required as
part of their duties to train their Ethiopian deputies
to take over from them on the expiry of their contracts.
6.        The establishment of the new Internal Marketing and Market Intelligence
Department would involve added work for EGA's Administration and Finance
Department, but it is considered that this can be handled by that Department's
existing staff and facilities. With the provision of additional fumigation
equipment, as detailed in the cost projections, EGA's existing Stored Produce
Service should be able to extend its pest control operations to cover whole-
sale stores to be licensed under the Project proposals.
Branch Organization
7.        For its current activities, EGA already has branches at Addis Ababa,
Asmara, Assab, Nazareth, Dire Dawa, Dessie, Massawa and Debre Berhan and
intends to open additional offices at Djibouti and Humera. It is considered
that this branch network, without any further additions, will suffice to serve
the new Internal Marketing and Market Intelligence Departments.
Financial Projections
8.        The provision of better market intelligence and the improvement and
regulation of private trade are essential components of the Project and the
incremental costs to EGA of carrying out these functions are included in total
Project costs. Projections of these incremental costs over the Project period
are detailed in Tables 1-2 and summarized below. Gradings and salary scales
for Ethiopian staff are based on those in operation in EGA's current organ-
ization and are in line with public service scales laid down by the Central
Personnel Agency.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Year
1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1980/81      Total
------------------------ Birr '000 -----------------------
Capital Costs          168              -            -             -          168
Operational Costs      914            913           936            887     3,650
MIIF                    50            200           375            375      1,000
Subtotal        1,132          1,113        1,311          1,262      4,818
9.        EGA's income, which comes mainly from ceases on exports totaled
Birr 1,181,000 for the year ended July 7, 1974, and was nearly double its
operating costs of Birr 664,000. However, EGA's future income is expected to
be at a lower level because of the decline in exports notably of oilseeds,
while the cost of carrying out its existing functions is expected to rise.
This and the additional operating costs envisaged under the Project is likely
to lead to.EGA incurring deficits under its present method of financing, as
indicated below:



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Year
1977/78     1978/79         1979/80        1980/81
-                  Birr '000  -------
Income /1                   244          376             524            688
Operating Costs
a) for current
operations /2        1,041        1,144           1,259          1,384
b)  project /3           1,132        1,113           1,311          1,262
Total
expenditure          2,173       2,257           2,570          2,646
Deficit              1,929        1,881           2,046          1,958
/1   Assuming that service taxes remain at present levels and that exports
are as projected in Annex 8, Table 1.
/2   Estimated to increase at 10 percent p.a.
/3   From para. 8.  (excluding contingencies)
10.       As shown above, EGA would thus face an annual financial deficit of
about Birr 2 million on its operations over the Project period. It would not
be practicable to finance this deficit either by increasing the present rates
of service taxes on exports or by attempting to levy similar taxes on domestic
trade transactions to meet the cost of EGA's activities in this field. There-
fore, it would be necessary for.-EGA to seek appropriate budgetary allocations
to cover these deficits. One way of doing so would be to include the whole
of EGA's budget expenditure as a special item in the budget of the Ministry
of Commerce and Tourism, in which case Government would retain the proceeds
of service taxes on exports. Such an arrangement would mean that the financial
consequences of any fluctuations in revenue from service taxes would automa-
tically be borne by Government.
Legislative Changes
11.       EGA was established as the Ethiopian Grain Board under Proclama-
tion No. 113 of 1950 and subsequent amending legislation. Considerable changes
were introduced in recent legislation, to allow EGA to assume the new functions
proposed under the Project and to effect the structural and organization
changes set out in this annex. This legislation is reproduced in Appendix 1
of this Annex.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 1
PROCLAMATION NO.                1977
A PROCLAMATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
THE ETHIOPIAN GRAIN AGENCY
"ETHIOPIA TIKDEM"
WHEREAS the farmer Ethiopian Grain Board had limited purpose and
powers;
WHEREAS recent developments in Ethiopia necessitate that the Govern-
ment should have greater responsibilities in the setting and controlling of
prices and improving the quality of produce, and improving facilities for the
collection, collation and interpretation of market information, and be able to
institute market infrastructural improvements;
WHEREAS to achieve this it is necessary to create an institution
charged with full powers and responsibilities;
NOW, THEREFORE in accordance with article                        of the
it is hereby proclaimed as follows:
1.   Short Title
This Proclamation may be cited as "The Grain Agency Proclamation No - of
1977"
2.   Repeal
The Ethiopian Grain Board Proclamation No. 113 of 1950 and all amendments
made thereto and all regulations issued thereunder are hereby repealed.
3.   Definitions
In this Proclamation unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) "Domestic Trade" shall mean trade within Ethiopia involving
the transfer of produce from its point of production to its
point of domestic consumption, or any part of such transfer
process.
(2) "Export" shall mean to take out produce for sale outside
Ethiopia.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
(3) "Import" shall mean to bring produce into Ethiopia.
(4) "Minister" shall mean the Minister of Commerce and Tourism.
(5) "Produce" shall mean any agricultural commodity, or produce
resulting from the primary processing of any such commodity
that may be included in the Schedule of this Proclamation
any amendment thereto by regulations to be issued by the Board.
4.   Establishment
There is hereby established a body to be known as the Ethiopian Grain
Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) as an autonomous public
body having juridical personality.
5.   Principal and Branch Offices
The Agency shall have its head office in Addis Ababa and may have branch
offices elsewhere in Ethiopia and abroad.
6.   Scope of Application
This Proclamation shall apply to all produce from:
(1) the time it leaves the place where it is grown or produced until
it reaches its terminal point in the domestic trade or is ex-
ported; or
(2) point of entry into Ethiopia until it reaches its terminal point
in the domestic trade.
7.   Purposes of the Agency
The principal purposes of the Agency shall be to:
(1) Assist the promotion of export of produce in all possible ways;
(2) control and improve the quality and grading of all produce for
domestic consumption or export in accordance with Ethiopian
Standards, and monitor and control the quality and quantity of
produce imported into the country;
(3) increase the efficiency of the domestic trade by regulation
and by assisting in local market infrastructure improvements;



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(4) improve the collection, analysis and dissemination of data and
information relating to the domestic and export trades with
regard to produce;
(5) recommend and implement approved prices.
8.   Powers and Duties of the Agency
The Agency shall have all powers necessary for the attainment of its
purposes; these include the powers and duties to:
(1) issue, renew or cancel licenses in respect of exporters,
importers, wholesalers, retailers, transit agents, shipping
agents and cleaners dealing in produce; and flour millers
producing flour for export and - commercial bakeries and
vegetable oil expressors who export their products;
(2) recommend and exercise control over prices in respect of
produce in domestic trade;
(3) recommend policies with regard to imports, exports, buffer
stocking and subsidies;
(4) regulate the supply and control the prices of export produce;
(5) issue export authorization certificate for all export produce;
(6) advise on and control pest control practices in respect of all
produce;
(7) enter, at any reasonable time, any building or place; stop
any person, animal or vehicle carrying produce for the purposes
of taking samples, for the inspection and determination of
quantity and quality of produce;
(8) seize and detain any produce which is suspected to have been
adulterated;
(9) declare the forfeiture of any produce whose owner is unknown
or can not be found or is unwilling to be present when summoned;
(10) to destroy any produce which can not be cleaned or whose re-
tention is likely to endanger the quality of any other produce
with which it may come into contact;
(11) charge and collect fees.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 4
(12)  own, possess and dispose of property;
(13)  enter into contracts including the borrowing of money;
(14)  sue and be sued in its own name;
(15)  discharge such other necessary duties for the attainment of
its purposes.
9.   Composition of the Agency
The Agency shall have:
(1) a Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as the Board)
(2) a General Manager and a Deputy General Manager; and
(3) the necessary staff.
10.  The Board
(1) The Board shall consist of the Following members:
(a)  The Minister of Commerce and Tourism        -  Chairman
(b) A representative of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Settlement                  -  Member
(c)  A representative of the National Bank    -
(d) The General Manager of the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation
(e)  The General Manager of the Grain Agency
(2)  The Deputy General Manager of the Agency, or in his absence such
other employee of the Agency as the Board, on the advice of the
General Manager, shall appoint for this purpose shall carry out
the duties of Secretary to the Board.
(3)  The quorum of any meeting of the Board shall be the presence of
three (3) of its members.
(4)  All questions proposed for decision at a meeting shall be deter-
mined by a majority of the votes of the members present and the
chairman shall have a casting vote in case of a tie.
(5)  The Board shall establish its own rules of procedure.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 5
11. Powers of the Board
(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Proclamation all powers
and duties of the Agency are vested in the Board.
(2) The Principal functions of the Board shall be to:
(a) consider and decide policy matters relating to the
carrying out of the Agency's responsibilities;
(b) make grants and loans;
(c) write off bad or unrecoverable debts.
12. The General Manager
(1) The General Manager and the Deputy General manager shall be
appointed by the Government upon the recommendation of the Board.
(2) The General Manager shall be the chief executive officer of
the Agency and shall, subject to the directives of the Board,
be responsible for the proper administration of the overall
activities of the Agency.
(3) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the General
Manager, shall:
(a) employ, transfer, promote or dismiss employees in
accordance with The Central Personnel Agency and
Public Service laws;
(b) prepare the work programmes and the budget of the Agency
and submit same to the Board for approval;
(c) draw up and submit for the Boards approval the internal
rules of the Agency;
(d) settle disputes out of court;
(e) represent the Agency personally or by appointing an
agent in all legal proceedings brought by or against it;
(f) delegate his authority to the officials of the agency
for the effective performance of the functions of the
Agency;



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX I
Page 6
(g) withdraw deposits from bank accounts;
(h) perform such other duties as may be entrusted to him
by the Board.
13. Funds
1.   The agency shall have funds collected from the following sources:
(a) fees collected by it;
(b) funds derived from property and investments;
(c) credits which may be made available by or through
Government;
(d) any other money accruing to the Agency as the result of
its operations;
(e)  an annual Government subsidy based  on an estimate pre-
pared by the General Manager and approved by the Board;
2.   The fund established under sub-article I of this article shall be
expended to give effect to the purposes of the Agency.
3.   The surplus shall be paid to the Ministry of Finance.
14. Accounts, Audit and Fiscal Year
(1) The Agency shall keep books of accounts with supporting documents.
(2) The book of accounts and all matters concerning the finance of
the Agency shall be audited at least once a year by the Auditor
General or by an auditor designated by him. The result of such
audit shall be submitted to the Board.
(3) The fiscal year of the Agency shall begin on the first day of
Hamle and end on the 30th day of Sene.
15. Annual Report
The Agency shall prepare an annual report concerning its activities,
receipts and expenditure and shall submit such reports to the Government
within five months after the end of each fiscal year. A copy of audited
accounts of the Agency, with the auditors statement, shall be submitted
to the Government with the annual report.



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 7
16. Power to Delegate Authority
The Agency may, for the better implementation of this Proclamation and
regulations issued hereunder, delegate all or part of its powers and
duties to public or mass organizations.
17. Authorization to Export
Customs officials are hereby authorized and directed to prohibit the
exportation of produce not accompanied by a valid Export Authorization
Certificate issued in accordance with this Proclamation or regulations
issued hereunder.
18. Transfer of Assets and Liabilities
All assets and liabilities of the Ethiopian Grain Board are hereby
transfered to the Agency.
19. Taxes
The Agency is exempted from all taxes.
20. Penalty
Any person who violates the provisions of this Proclamation or regula-
tions issued hereunder shall be punished in accordance with the Penal
Code.
21. Power to Issue Regulations
The Chairman may, upon the recommendation of the Board issue regulations
for the better carrying out of the provisions of this Proclamation.
22. Effective Date
This Proclamation shall enter into force on the date of its publication
in the Negarit Gezeta.
Done at Addis Ababa this               day of            1977
Provisional Military Administrative Council



ANNEX 12
APPENDIX 1
Page 8
THE SCHEDULE
Produce to which the Proclamation applies:
(1) Whether for the domestic trade, export or import;
Barley                    Mustard seed
Castorseed                Nigerseed (Neug)
Cottonseed                Oats
Chickpeas                 Peas
Fenugreak                 Pumpkinseed
Haricot beans             Pape (Colza)
Groundnuts                Safflower
Horse beans               Sesameseed
Lentils                   Sorghum
Linseed                   Soya beans
Maize                     Sunflower seed
Millet                    Teff
Wheat
(2) Flour, as derived from any produce specified in (1) above, when it
is exported or imported.
(3) Animal feedingstuffs, being any produce specified in (1) above, or
derived partly or wholly from any produce specified in (1) above,
when it is exported or imported.
(4) Any product resulting from the primary processing of any produce
specified in (1) above, when it is exported or imported.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
EGA, Costs for Internal Marketing Department (Birr)
Total    Foreign          Foreign
Unit Cost    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80  1980'81                   Exchange        Exchange
-  %          Total
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Standard vehicles                                               (1) 10,500        -          -          -        10,500       75             7,875
4-wheel drive vehieles                                  19,000  (2) 38,000        -          -          -       38,000        75            28,500
Office furniture                                                     11,724       -          -          -        11,724       40             4,690
Office equipment                                                     20,250       -          -          -       20,250        52            10,530
Fumigation equipment                                                 23,56C       -          -          -        23,560       75            17,670
Survey equipment                                                     5,000        -          -          -        5,000        75             3,750
I/
Telephone installation                                               3,390        -          -          -        3,390        5G             1,695
Total                   112,424       -          -          -       112,424       66            74,710
1/ Cost shared with Marketing Intelligence Dept. (60/40)
December 15, 1976.



ITHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
EGA, Costs fev Internal Marketing Department (Birr)
(Continued)
Unit                                               Total       P. Ehcb.       ForciL  Ecch.
Gr.adc        Coat       1977/78  1978/79  19i7980    1980/81                 _%               tot il
3. OPERATING COSTS
a) Salarics + Wagess
Departmont Chicf                Expatriate  100,000    OO,OOO lOO,OOO   lOO,OOO   lOO,OOO    400oo,OOO                       300,000
Local Countcrp. rt                P55                        -       -          -      13,080      13,080       -
Deputy Chiof                      PS4                     11,160  11,160    11,760    11,760       45,840       _
Secretary                         CF9                      4,740   4,740     5,040      5,040      19,560
Driv^r                           4S4                  (3)  4,572(3j 4,572  () ,040 (3) 5,040        19,224      -
Messenger                                         40  O      576(2)  576 ()   576 (2)   576         2,304       --
Guard  j/                                         40  2    576(2)  576 (2)  576 (2)   576           2,304       -
Office cleaner -'                                 25         180     180        180       180         720
Licensing Sotion:
Section Head                     ADB                     11,160  11,160    11,760    11,760       45,840
Senior Licensing Officer         CF12                     8,064   8,o64      8,520     8,520      33,168
LiccnsinG Officer                CF10                     5,664   5,664      6,000     6,000      23,328        -
Administrative Assistant         AD4                      5,664   5,664      6,000     6,000      23,328
Typist                           CF9                      4,740   4,740      5,040     5,040      19,560        -
Local Markets Scotion:
Supervisor                       AD8                     11,160  11,160    11,760    11,760       45t840
Senior Ass. Supervisor           CF12                     8,064   8,064      8,520     8,520      33,168        -
Assistant Supervisor             CF10                     5,664   5,664      6,000     6,000      23,328
Typist                           CF9                      41740   4,740      5,040     5,040      19,560        -
M4arket Improvement Section:
Section Head                   Expatriate    100,000   100,000 100,000   100,000    4,0                        75           3 ,
Local Counterp.art               PS4                        -       -          -      11,160      11,160        -
Dcputy                           P53                      9,480   9,480    1O0C20    10,020       39,000        -_
Engincvr                         pl4 11,160  11,160    11;760    11,760                           45,840        _
Drafts;.an                       SP9                      4,740   4,740      5,040     5,040      19,560        _
Adniniztrative Assistant         ADq                      56         6       6,000      6,000     23,328        -
Typist                            (F9                  3)         4.740 (3) 5      3040  3                     _).40  _56 0
.Sub-total                              322,508 3         329,672' 353,93    1,325,b00 -                     6
4  Co8t gh.aeA -.4t)h Marketing Intelligence Dep (60/40)



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
EGA, Costs for Internal Marketing Department (Birr)
(Continued)
Foreign Exchange       Foreign Exchange
1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1980/81         Total                                     total
b) Miscellaneous:
Air travel  9/                                                                6,ooo          6,ooo          6,ooo           6,ooo        24,000                75                    18,000
Rent i/                                                                      18,ooo         18,ooo         18,ooo          18,000        72,000                -
Telephone  i/                                                                11,160         11,160         11,160          11,160        44,640
Utilities  i                                                                    792             792           792             792         3,168                -
Vehicle operating  /                                                         26,250         26,250         26,250          26,250       105,000                75                    78,750
Subsistence                                                                   9,135          9,135          9,555          11,265        39,090
Stationery  1/ 1,200                                                                         1,200          1,200           1,200         4,800                40                     1,920
Drawing Materials                                                             2,000           1,000         1,000           1,000          5,000               75                     3,750
Training                                                                     56,ooo         56,ooo         56,ooo          56,ooo       224,ooo                50                   112,000
Subtotal              130,537         129,537       129,957         131,667        521,698                41                   214,420
Total (a*Fb)        453,045         452,045       459,629         485,579      1,850,298                                     814,420
C. Market Infrastructure Improvement Fund                                         50,000        200,000        375,000         375,000     1,000,000                 40                  400,000
GRAND TOTAL(A,B,C)     615,469         652,o45       834,629         860,579      2,962,722                44                 1,289,130
_=                                 == =
i/ Cost shared with Marketing Intelligence Department (60/40).                                                                                                                                   m
/ Standard car - 25,000 km p.a . at Birr 0.25;  4 wheel drive - 25,000 km p.a. at Birr 0.40.                                                                                                       Z
December 15, 1976.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND M~RKETING PROJECT
EGA, Costs for Market Intelligence Department (Birr)
Unit                                                                                 F. Exch.   Foreign Ex
A. CAPITAL COSTS                                        Grade         Cost        1977/78       1978/79       1979/80        1980/81        Total                        Total
4 wheel drive vehicle                                            19,000       19,000           _     -              -                 19,000             75         14,250
Office furniture                                                               9,64B           -           -                -          9,648             40          3,860
Office equipment                                                              25,000           -            -               -         25,125             52         13,062
Telephone installation  j                                                      2,260           -            -               -          2,260             50          1,130
Total                     56,028           -            -               -5,2                                     32,302
B. OPERATING COSTS
a) Salaries & wages:
Department Chief                                Expatriate  100,000        100,000      100,000      100,000        100,000       400,000             75        300,000
Local Counterpart                                  PS5                        -             -           -            13,080        13,080             -            -
Deputy Chief                                       PS4                     11,160         11,760      11,760         11,760        45,84o              -           -
Secretary                                          CF9                      4,740         4,740        5,o40          5,o40        19,560             -            -
Driver                                             SP4                      1,524          1,524       1,524          1,524         6,o96              -           -
Messenger i/                                                      40 (2)      384 (2)        384    (2)  384       (2)  384         1,536              -           -
Guard  j/                                                         40 (2)      384 (2)        384    (2)  384       (2)  384         1,536              -           -
Office cleaner i/                                                 25          120            120          120            120           480
Data Section:
Section Head                                    Expatriate  100,000        100,000      100,000      100,000                      300,000             75        225,000
Local Counterpart                                  PS4                                       - -      11,160         11,160        22,320             -            -
Deputy Section Head                                P53                      9,480          9,480      10,020         10,020        39,000              -           -
Senior Statistician                                SPlO                     5,664         5,664        6,ooo          6,ooo        23,328             -            -
Statisti cian                                      SP9                      4,740          4,740       5,o4o          5,o40        19,560              -           -
Typist                                             CF9                (2)   9,480 (2)      9,480  (2) 10,080   (2)  10,080         39,120              -           -
Market Analysis & Research Sec.:
Section Head                                    Expatriate  100,000       100,000       10,000       100,000        100,000      1400,000             75        300,000
Local Counterpart                                  PS4                                      -            -           11,160        11,160              -
Deputy Section Head                                PS3                      9,480          9,480      10,020         10,020        39,000              -
Senior Statisti 3ian                               SPFO                     5,664          5,664       6,ooo          6,ooo        23,328              -
Statisti cian                                      SP9                      4,740          4,740       5,o4o          5,o40        19,560              -
Typist                                             CF9                      4,740          4,7440    o4o 40o4o                      19,560             -           -
Sub Total (a)            372.300        372,300      387,612        311,852    1,444,064              57        825,000
Costs shared with Internal Marketing Department (40/60)                                                                                                             (0 Lb
December 15, 1976.



ETBIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
EGA, Costs for Market Intelligence Department (Birr)
(Continued)
F. Exch.      Foreign Exch.
1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980/81       Total                        total
b) Miscellaneous:
Air travel                                                                   4,ooo         4,ooo        4,ooo         4,oo         16,000       75             12,000
Rent  i/                                                                    12,000        12,000       12,000        12,000 o48,ooo              -
Telephone  j                                                                 7,440         7,440        7,440         7,440        29,760        -
Utilities   /                                                                  528           528          528            528        2,112        -                 -
Vehicle Operating  |                                                        10,000        10,000       10,000         10,000       40,000       75             30,000
Subsistence                                                                  3,675         3,675        4,305         4,770        16,425        -                -
Stationery  j                                                                  800           800          800            800        3,200       40               1,280
Training                                                                    50,000        50,000       50,000         50,000     200,000        50             100,000
Subtotal                                         88,443         88,443       89,073        89,538      355,497        40            143,280
Total (a b)                                  460,743        460,743      476,685       401,390   1,799,561         54            968,780
GRAND TOTAL (A B)                              516,771        460,743      476,685       401,390   1,855,589         54          1,001,082
Costs shared with Internal Marketing Department (40/60)                                                                                                               m 
|  25,000 km p.a. at Birr 0.40.                                                                                                                                              PA
December 15, 1976.



ETHIOPTA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
ETHIOPIAN GRAIN AGENCY
HEADQIJARTERS ORGANIZATION
Board of Directors
External
Auditors
General Manager
Internal
Auditor                      Adviser
Deputy
General Manager
Information            I
Export Crops                 Market                          Internal                 Administration
Quality Control            Intelligence                       Marketing                  and Finance
& Licensing        __               _
Data                  Market                       ;Market       Adminis-
Collection              Analysis      Licensing      Improvement   tration        Finance
Supervision
of Local Markets
Stored Products
Service
December 17, 1975.                   Perst
December 17, 1975,                               Control                 Laboratory



ANNEX 13
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits
Increased Production
1.        The Project originates from a concern that peasant producers would
lack sufficient incentives to adopt the new techniques promoted through the
package programs. A fair and stable return to recommended inputs (mainly
fertilizers), i.e., a lower price limit would be assured through an
alternative outlet with wide geographical coverage and with a volume of
business large enough to influence also pricing in the private sector. The
alternative outlet was originally planned to be almost exclusively centered
around the ECODD marketing centers, but when through land reform State farms
were created in place of private large scale farms, this was seen as an oppor-
tunity to expand the volume of public marketing and for AMC rapidly to assume
a price-leadership role. It has not been possible to quantify the value of
an assured minimum return to key inputs in terms of increased production and
farm income, but the importance may be illustrated by the CADU experience
where a drop in grain prices in 1972 resulted in a two-year stagnation in the
adoption of recommended inputs. Due to the forecast import situation there
will in any case need to be an upward pressure on the domstic price level
during the next few years and the value of the project will only be felt in
occasional good years when AMC will attempt to avoid undue price falls through
buffer stocking and in remote areas through a firmer integration with the
national marketing system.
Reduced Losses
2.        The elimination of 55,000 MT of substandard private wholesale
storage through the newly created licensing system and the construction of
properly designed incremental storage facilities would reduce storage losses
by about 5% or 2,750 MT annually, the value of which at import parity prices
(Birr 495) would be Birr 1.4 million. Market infrastructure improvements
financed by the Project will also tend to reduce losses and spillage but the
funds allocated for this purpose under the Project are small.
Income Redistribution
3.        Another major purpose of the Project is to reduce the margins in
private trade and eliminate the alleged cheating in weighing, grading, and
calculations. The information on costs and profits in private trade are
however very scanty (Annex 1) and the lack of stability has no doubt resulted
in occasional large trading losses as well as profits. If managed efficiently
AMC could be expected to operate on lower margins in view of low storage losses
and proper location of warehouses (avoiding double transport), reduced risk



ANNEX 13
Page 2
margins through the stabilization efforts and the expected large scale of
operations including input supply which would allow low unit overhead costs.
On the basis of whatever little information that is available about private
margins and the --stimated AMC costs there is however no firm evidence of a
significant income distribution effect.
Incremental Wholesale Marketing
4.        The public grain marketing effort would be based partly on a conti-
nuation of EGC activities, (about 175,000 MT 1/ after the nationalization of
some warehouses), partly on a replacement of private trade (75,000 MT) 2/ and
partly on the following expansion of public (and total) wholesale trade:
Incremental          Total Public
Public Trade             Trade
(000 MT)            (000 MT) 33/
1977/78                         60                   260
1978/79                        140                   340
1979/80                       220                    420
1980/81                       300                    500
5.        The incremental marketing capacity which is created by the construc-
tion of additional storage over and above existing warehouse facilities
(public and private) is valued on the basis of the estimated average margins
in private trade for taking the farm produce to the wholesale market and for
seasonal storage.
(i)  The traditional margin between producer wholesale prices
during the buying season (same month) has been Birr 0.32 per
MT and kilometer distance from the buying point to Addis Ababa.
The average transport distance between the buying points
and the AMC branch stores is estimated at 100 km. In
addition, about half of the procured grain will be moved
on average 200 km. to another AMC branch for sale there.
A metric ton of grain procured will thus be moved about
200 km. and the traditional margin for the buying--wholesaling
services would thus be Birr 64 per MT. This margin refers
the the period 1968-74. During the last year prices of labor,
sacks and transport has increased by at least 10%. The
adjusted margin would thus be Birr 70 per MT. AMC's variable
costs for performing the same services are as follows (Birr per
MT):
1/   Based on 133,000 MT of storage facilities.
2/   Due to the elimination of 55,000 MT of substandard warehouses.
3/   See Annex 8, Table 2.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
ECODD
Bagging and stitching                                2.50
Loading and unloading                                3.00
Sacks                                                4.00
Buying through ECODD MC/Cooperatives
(at optimal capacity 600 MT)                     25.00
Interest on trading capital (1 month, 10%)           2.50
Transport 200 km. @ Birr 0.10/km.                   20.00
Total                               57.00
With a shadow price for labor of 50% of current rate,
these costs will be reduced to Birr 54 per MT and the
benefits for AMC domestic buying are thus assumed to be
Birr 16/MT.
(ii) The traditional margin for seasonal storage (March -
September) was shown to average Birr 32 per MT during
the period 1962 - 1974 (Annex 1, Table 8). Again,
inflation has increased these costs by about 10%. The
resulting margin is thus Birr 36 or Birr 6 per MT and
month.  We need however, to deduct variable costs for
interest on stocks, loss in storage and handling (Annex 4)
to arrive at net benefits from seasonal storage of
Birr 2.75 per MT and month. The average amount stored
during the year is 34% (Annex 8, Table 11). Ten percent
of this however refers to year-to-year storage and out of
incremental marketing the amount stored one month thus
increases from 28,800 MT in 1977/78 to 720,000 MT in
1980/81.
Buffer Stocking
6.        A buffer stocking capacity of 50,000 MT would be available by 1980.
Every fourth year starting 1981/82 is assumed to be a good year and stocks
would be procured and stored an extra 12 months to a following normal or
below normal year when these stocks would replace imports. The difference
between the import parity price and the lower price limit at which the
grain is assumed to be bought is about Birr 214 per MT. The variable costs
would thus be (Annex 4, Birr per MT):



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Seasonal storage (6 months @ Birr 3)           18
Loading - unloading                              3
Interest on stocks (12 months, 10%)            30
Insurance of stocks (3%)                        1
Storage Loss (2%)                               6
Fumigation                                      1
Total                59
The net benefits thus would become about Birr 155 per MT every fourth year,
or with shadow pricing of labor Birr 157 per MT.  This assumes that the
security storage facilities will be utilized for buffer stocking for the time
being (Annex 7).
Consumer Protection
7.        The construction of storage at the branch and sub-branch level and
the availability of buffer stock facilities will improve the possibilities
to handle localized food shortages. The AMC retail-selling capacity will be
used in areas where private margins appear excessive and/or services deficient.
The imposition of an upper price limit combined with possible import sub-
sidies would give further protection to the consumer. It has not been possible
to quantify these benefits.
Incremental Input Distribution
8.        AMC's input distribution would expand from 60,000 MT to 137,000 MT
during the Project period and the Project would provide 50,500 MT of incremen-
tal storage to supplement the facilities now available (18,000 MT). The
distribution of an expanding volume of farm inputs at the right time and to
the right place is an important part of the agricultural development effort.
However, it is not possible to isolate the benefits from this endeavor from
those of extension, and costs will be excluded here since no matching benefits
have been claimed.
B. Costs
9.        The quantifiable benefits only refer to reduced losses, incremental
wholesaling and to bufferstocking and Project costs have been adjusted
accordingly as follows:



ANNEX 13
Page 5
(a) AMC Investment Costs. The cost of input storage has been
deducted.
(b) AMC Operating Costs
(i) Input distribution. The costs of insuring,
guarding, and maintaining input stores have been
deducted. A proportion equal to the relative share
of inputs out of total AMC trading have been deducted
from AMC operating costs.
(ii) Existing public marketing. AMC's present marketing
has been estimated at 175,000 MT. A proportion equal
to the share of existing marketing out of total AMC
grain trading has been deducted from remaining AMC
operating costs.
(iii) Transport. Transport of grain would be undertaken
partly on contract and partly by AMC owned trucks.
The cost of transport has been deducted in arriving
at net benefits (para. 5). AMC's transport
department is expected to break even and the costs
of trucks and AMC transport department has been excluded.
(iv) The costs to the economy of operating the 55,000 MT
of new storage facilities which are expected to replace
an equal amount of substandard warehouses have been assumed
to be unchanged and AMC's operating costs have been reduced
by a proportion equal to the relative magnitude of this
replacement operation out of AMC's total grain handling
operations. The benefits of this replacement is thus
expressed in reduced storage losses (para. 2) and the
costs refer to the construction of new warehouses. This
also assumes that the owners of the replaced warehouses
can find other gainful employment.
(c) Other Costs
(i) Market intelligence. Although of a research nature and
utilized by other organizations the costs for market
intelligence and crop forecasting have been included
since these activities are essential for the effective
management of AMC.
(ii) Market improvement. Since no benefits are claimed these
costs have been excluded.
(iii) Licensing. Since benefits in the form of reduced storage
losses from the elimination of substandard storage have
been claimed the costs of EGA licensing have been included.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
10.       Although it is possible to determine the foreign exchange component
of the AMC investments and fixed operating costs (Project economic costs) the
corresponding component of the benefits (i.e., the fixed costs and profits
in private trade) is unknown but likely to be similar. No shadow pricing of
foreign exchange has thus been undertaken. In arriving at net benefits the
labor component of variable costs (loading-unloading) was shadow-priced (50Z).
AMC's salaries mainly refer to skilled staff and no shadow pricing has been
applied.
C. Economic Rate of Return
11.       On the above assumptions the economic rate of return of the Project
is estimated at 25X, including buffer stocking and at 18% excluding buffer
stocking. Without shadow pricing these returns are reduced to 21% and 13%
respectively. A sensitivity analysis gives the following results:
Rate of              Rate of
Return Including    Return Excluding
Buffer Stocking      Buffer Stocking
With    Without      With    Without
Shadow  Shadow       Shadow  Shadow
Pricing Pricing      Pricing Pricing
Volume of grain handled or
marketing margins reduced by 10%    21         17           14     10
Volume of grain handled or
marketing margins reduced by 20%    16         12           10      5
AMC costs increased by 10%              21       17           15     10
AMC costs increased by 20%              18       14           11      7
Volume of grain handled reduced by
10% and AMC costs increased by 10%  17        13           11       6
Volume of grain handled reduced by
20% and AMC costs increased by 20%   9         6            3      -1
12.       The proportion of costs eliminated from the benefit-cost analysis
(in accordance with para. 9) is 35% of the total costs during the Project
period (Table 2).



EThIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Benefits
Reduced Storage                Incremental                    Incremental
Losses I/                 Wholesale Trade  2/             Seasonal Storage 3/              Buffer Stocking 4/         Total
Year                             MT       Birr '000           000 MT      Birr '000          000 MT      Birr '000            000 MT    Birr '000        Birr '000
A. With Shadow pricing
1977/78                  2,750         1,361                60        960                29             80                --                            2,401
1978/79                  2,750         1,361               140      2,240               259            712                --                            4,313
1979/80                  2,750         1,361               220      3,520               490          1,348                --                            6,229
1980/81                  2,750         1,361               300      4,800               720          1,980                --                            8,141
1981/82                  2,750         1,361               300      4,800               720          1,980                --        50 5/ 7,850        16,001
B. Without shadow pricing
1977/78                  2,750         1,361                60         780               29              73                __                           2,214
1978/79                  2,750         1,361               140      1,820               259            648                 ---                          3,829
1979/80                  2,750         1,361               220      2,860               490          1,225                 --                           5,446
1980/81                  2,750         1,361               300      3,900               720          1,800                 --                           7,061
1981/82 and thereafter 2,750           1,361              300       3,900               720          1,800                 --       50 5/ 7,750        14,811
1/ Valued at an import parity price of Birr 495.
2/ Valued at a net margin of Birr 16.00 per MT with shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
Birr 13.00 per MT without shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
3/  Valued at net margin of Birr 2.75 per MT with shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
Birr 2.50 per MT without shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
4/  Valued at Birr 157 per MT with shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
Birr 155 per MT without shadow pricing of unskilled labor.
5/  Every fourth year thereafter.                                                                                                                                             L



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STOEAGE AND MABING PBOJECT
Eonooooc Coot. (Birr '000)
Coat Ita                                 1977/78   1978/79   1979/80  1980/81   1981/82   1982/83    1983/84   1984/85  1985/86   1986/87   1987/88  1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   19%/95  1981/m  -imam
A. AMC In-eatmeeDt Coat.
Storage                              5,810    6,020    6,090    6,090        __        __       __          __      __         __       __        __        __       __        __        __
HQ Building                  --        325       325      --        --       --        --       --          -       -
Vahile.                      --        6 603                                                                                    40       69        18       603       40        69        18      603        40       69        18
Eqipe..t                     __      1,075       20       132        19      __        --       --          --      --         -       1,075       20       132        19      __        -_        __       _ 
Tmrcks-                                800     17       1,175      --        6-        -6 3                                                                                                                  %         69
S.btotal                    8,613    7,580    7,466    6,127         603       40       69          18      603        40    1,144         38      735        59       69        18       603       40        69       16
B. AMC Operating Coat,
8.1rie.                     --      2,594    2,651    2,962    2,996    2,146
Oher                        --      3,054     3,173    3,338    3,518    3,518
Subtotal             --     5,648     5,824    6,300    6,514      5,664    5,664    5,664       5,664   5,664      5,664     5,664     5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664    5,664
C. EGA and CTU Coata
Market Intelligence          --        517       461      477       401      150
Interal Marketing            --        615      657       835       861      230
Cvop Foreraotiag             --        320      295       331       715      715
ftbtotal             --     i,452    1,408    1,643    1,477        595       595       595        595      595       595       595       595      595       595       595      595       595       595      595       595
Total A,B,C                15,713   14,812    15,409    14,118    6,862    6,299    6,328        6,277    6,862      6,299    7,403    6,297    6,994    6,318       6,328    6,277    6,862    6,299    6,3e8    6,27
D. less Adjostoanta for
Input Storage                __      1,470      560       700       840      __        __       __          __      __         _ 
Trorka                                 BO 800    1,175    1,175     __       __        __       __          __      __         __        __
Ir0t Operrt88g Coat.         --      1,145     1,134    1,182    1,256     1,049
E.istitg Gran Trnde          --      1,400    1,400     1,400     1,400    1,400
Reple.e.t 8ai. Trade         --        600      600       600       600      600
Market Infraetr-otore        --        241      39i       568       579      100
Subtotal             __     5,656    5,260    5,625    4,675       3,149    3,149    3,149       3,149    3,149      3,149    3,149     3,149    3,149     3,149     3,*49     3,149    3,149    3,149    3,149    3,149
Proportion D out of ABC ($)          0       42        36        37       33
Total A,B,C,D,             10,057    9,552    9,784    9,443       3,713    3,150    3,179        3,128    3,713     3,150    4,254     3,148     3,845    3,169     3,179     3,128    3,713    3,150    3,179    3,128
E. Contini35                                                                                                                                    21ciea  lil3                          137t1e1
Phyalcal CootiageoOiea                 806      955       978       944      371       315       318        313      371       315       475       315      385       317       318      313       371      315       373       313
Doties     Boildinag                  -299     -658      -634      -619      __        __
EIqipmnt                  -523       -17       -55      -10      -166       -11      -19          -5    .166        _11      -315      -11      -702      _16       _19        -5     -166       -11       -19       -5
Total A,B,C,D,,            10,041    9,832   10,073    9,758       3,918    3,454    3,478        3,436    3,918     3,454     4,364    3,452    4,028      3,470    3,478     3,436     3,918    3,454     3,478    3,436
F. SuclOdiag NutCerotocliOO
Storage (including
conti.gngeni-3
=xoloding dotieo)          _                 1,260    1,190     1,050       --       --3-5 -7 -3
Total A,B,C,D.E,F           10,041    8,572    8,883     8,728     3,918     3,454    3,478       3,436    3,918     3,454     4,364    3,452    4,028    3,470       3,478    3,436    3,918    3,454      3,478    3,436
- emalber 15, 1976.



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
A_t ivity                   Authority             1976/77                  1977/78                1978/79                 1979/8 0                    1980/81
Project Establishment                   J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 ND J F M A M J J A S 0 9D JF MAMHJ J A S 0 N D J F M A M4 J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J
Negotiations
Board presentation                                       --
Effectiveness
AMC                                                 7
Appointment of key staff       Board                 L........l-___
Transfer AIMS, EGC resources  MOA                              L____
Deposit of trading capital    MOA-+--
Prepare warehouse cons truc-    GM                                                                                           ----
tion program                                          ..
Review performance             MOA
Review AMC pricing             Board                                                                                  ____          _____
Work plan and budget            Board-A
Borrow working capital         Board
Performance Report             Board
Assemble price statistics       GM      ....    __   _____    ___________                                              ___________
Estimate input needs             GM                            L   _jL
Procure   inputs                GM                                6_____                                                            _____-_____
Distribute inputs               GM
Purchase produceGM.....
Import produce                  GM
Export produce                   GM             L__________________
Plan storage                    GM
Construct storage               GM        ~       -*~*
Procure equipment               GM                                                    __                          ________                                      ____
Construct H.Q.                 ECODD
EGA----
Legislative changes              C
Appoint new Board               MCT                                                                                    _____________                             ____
Approve budget & work program MOT
Prepare price policy           Board
Estimate import/export         Board                    _                            __                                                               _
Decide   on   buffer   stocks  Board    1    ______________________________________
Review licencing               Board                                                                                   ______
MI(F operations                Board
Agree budget, work plan        Board                                                                    IL____                                    _____
Performance report             Board                                                                                                                C-
Market intelligence              GM               -_                     _        _ _          _ _                       _ _           _ _          _ _          _ _
Private trade supervision       GM
Appointment of staff           Board
Cr.o~,Information Unit 
Approve budget & program       MOA                                                                           I-4IL
Prepare budget &work plan       DH
Staff training                  DHL..J
Crop   reports                   DR                                                                            ___ __  ___ __ __
YCondition for effectiveness.                                                                                                                                                4



ANNEX 15
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal      End of         Disbursed            Cumulative      Balance of
Year        Quarter           during               amount           Credit
quarter             disbursed
 ------------------(US   $  000)  ---
1977/78           1             3,500                 3,500           20,500
2             1,674                 5,174          18,826
3             1,338                 6,512          17,488
4             1,338                 7,850          16,150
1978/79           1             1,338                 9,188           14,812
2             1,338               10,526           13,474
3             1,338               11,864           12,136
4             1,339                13,203          10,797
1979/80           1             1,366                14,569            9,431
2             1,366               15,935            8,065
3             1,367               17,302            6,698
4             1,367               18,669            5,331
1980/81           1             1,330                19,999           4,001
2             1,330               21,329            2,671
3             1,330               22,659            1,341
4             1,341               24,000
February 18, 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
STORAGE CONSTRUCTION
A. General
1.        The Project would provide AMC with the following new storage
facilities:
Purpose                   Capacity (MT)
Grain Marketing Operations           242,000
Security food reserves                50,000
Input distribution                    51,000
Total                     343,000
The estimated cost of this storage construction is Birr 24 million (US$11.6
million).
2.        It would be possible to phase this new construction fairly evenly
as indicated below:
Project Year              AMC Storage Construction
(in MT capacity)
(1976/77)                           83,000
(1977/78)                           86,000
(1978/79)                           87,000
(1979/80)                           87,000
343,000
Such a program should avoid imposing peak strains on construction contractors.
3.        Storage requirements have been carefully calculated to allow for the
need for separation of different types of produce. For both input distribution
and grain marketing the months of February, March and April constitute the peak
inventory period (Annex 8, Table 9), and this has been taken into account in



ANNEX 16
Page 2
calculating storage needs. The new storage specifically for inputs would be
concentrated at Addis Ababa, Nazareth, Assab and Combolcha, and would represent
an addition to wholesale depot capacity from which distribution would be made
to MPP centers. However, these stores were designed in such a way that they
could be utilized for grain storage if needed.
4.        Previous Ethiopian Grain Corporation (EGC) experience has shown
that in the present state of Ethiopian marketing development, bulk storage
is inappropriate. EGC's silo capacity of 29,000 MT has remained largely un-
utilized, and when used has involved re-bagging of deliveries because of the
absence of bulk handling and transport facilities at other points in the
marketing chain.
5.        Of the new operations to be handled by AMC, the marketing of the
output of State farms and of imported grains would theoretically offer possi-
bilities for bulk handling and storage. However, the uncertainties surround-
ing the future operations of State farms and the temporary and variable cha-
racter of imports do not justify the additional capital expenditure that the
installation of further bulk storage facilities would involve. Moreover,
EGC's existing silos have been transferred to AMC thus giving a nucleus of
bulk storage sufficient to cover any foreseeable special need (e.g. buffer
stocking) during the Project period, and, as indicated in para 9, the design
of flat stores has allowed for the possibility of their conversion to bulk
storage.
B. Warehouse Design
6.        The warehouses would be of a standard design of 25 meters width and
6 meters height to the eaves with their capacity varying according to the
length of the building. The basic size would be 60 meters long giving a
storage cpacity of 5,000 - 6,000 m3 or 3,000 - 3,500 MT of grain (Appendix 1),
but sizes could vary from 40 meters in length (capacity 2,000 MT) to 100
meters (capacity 5,000 MT).
7.        To deter rodents, the floor would be at least 0.6 meters above ground
level and if it could be raised to 0.9 - 1.0 meters this would facilitate
loading and unloading operations from lorries which should not be allowed
access to the store. No permanent stairs would be constructed.
8.        Foundations would have to be designed in accordance with the soil
condition of the site but could probably be standardized in a limited number
of types. Walls would be 3f either burned bricks or hollow concrete blocks
with a height to the eaves of not less than 5.5 meters, and with windows
covered with wire mesh and shutters to close them during fumigation periods.
Doors would be of the sliding type with a minimum space between walls and
doors, and a tightening device to be used during fumigation. Floors would be



ANNEX 16
Page 3
of concrete with a reinforcement of wire mesh and would have moisture insula-
tion of plastic sheet or similar material. Trusses would be of steel or wood;
at the moment wood is cheaper than steel and there would be no problem in
making the trusses with a free span of 25 meters. The roof would be of corru-
gated asbestos sheet, which is made locally, cheaper than galvanized steel
and better from an insultation point of view.
9.        These stores would be designed primarily for the storage of produce
in bags, but they could be converted to bulk storage if needed by
(a) re-inforcing the walls to a height of 1.0 - 1.5 meters
to withstand the pressure of bulk grain. If it were
necessary to go beyond this, a protective wall of bags
would have to be built inside the permanent wall.
(b) providing an elevator with an intake pit at one gable
end, which lifted grain onto a chain conveyor running
beneath the roof for the whole lenght of the building.
(c) adding augers and bagging machines for discharge
operations.
If so uti'lized for bulk storage, the capacity would be reduced by a quarter.
C. Costs
10.       From information supplied by the Ministry of Public Works, costs
for the type of store detailed above would vary between Birr 100 and Birr 140
per square meter, according to accessibility of the site to a main or perma-
nent road. Although most of the proposed AMC stores would be erected on
readily accessible sites, the higher estimate has been used. For the basic
size store the total cost would thus be 25 x 60 = 1,500 m2 at Birr 140/m2 =
Birr 210,000. Taking the lowest capacity figure for such a store of 3,000 MT,
a conservatively estimated cost of Birr 70 per MT of grain stored is arrived
at and this has been used in Project cost calculations.
D. Construction
11.       The steps in the construction of these warehouses would be:
Selection of sites
Preparation of tender documents, containing detailed
drawings and specifications



ANNEX 16
Page  4
Prequalification for contractors (bidders)
Invitation to tender
Examination of tenders
Signing of contracts
Construction and supervision
Contracts for the construction of storage would be awarded on the basis
of ICB, with a 7-1/2% preference to domestic contractors. Where ICB is not
practicable for reasons such as the small size or scattered location of some
facilities, contracts not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of local bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
The Ethiopian construction industry has been strengthened as a result of
technical and financial assistance received under previous Bank loans and
is considered at present to have sufficient capacity to meet Project needs.



ANNE) 16
Appendix 1
Design of Regional Stores
Warehouse 1500m2
Storage caP:_ 3-:3500 MT of Wheat
or 5-6000W
=-.'
11 1 '    7' "/',/,                      ''      1
.~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ _/   .
t                                                      .
- -  -   7-
-~~/ .-i ,,1///
_ . _ . _ _,                     _ '_   _
,~~~ _  .             _ .               -   _   -
_. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    



ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Government Cash Flow (Birr '000)
1977/78      1978/79     1979/80       1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
A. Outflowl/
AMC (Annex 8) 2/                   28,431       11,177       12,141       11,283          --           --           --           --           --           --           --           --
EGA (Annex 12)                      1,289        1,335        1,656         1,712        1,500        1,500        1,500        1,500        1,500        1,500        1,500        1,500
MOA                                   439           374          461          332          350          350          350          350          350          350          350          350
IDA Credit Service                     94          163           247          331          372          372          372          372          372          372          369          365
IDA Credit Repayment                 --           --           --           --           --           --            --           --           --           --            497          497
Total                          29,403       12,199       13,655       12,808        2,222        2,222        2,222         2,222        2,222        2,222        2,716        2,712
B. Inflow 3/
IDA (Annex 15)                     16,250       11,083       11,315       11,035          --           --           --           --           --           --           --           --
Duties and Taxes (Annex 18)         1,577        1,292        1,452         1,095         --           --           --           --           --           --           --           --
Dividends AMC (Annex 8,
Table 12)                          723        2,875        4,446        7,262        7,262        7,262        7,262         7,262        7,262        7,262        7,262        7,262
Interest and Repayment of
MIIF                               --          --              33           94          155          297          297          297          297          297          297          297
Total                         18,550       15,250       17,246       19,486        7,417        7,559        7,559         7,559        7,559        7,559        7,559        7,559
Surplus Deficit                   (11,703)       2,201         2,741        5,828        5,195        5,337        5,337        5,337        5,337        5,337        4,843        4,847
Cumulative Surplus/Deficit        (11,703)       (9,502)      (6,761)        (933)       4,262        9,599       14,936       20,273       25,610       30,947       35,790       40,637
1/  Subsidies for fertilizer and grain imports are not included since these could be avoided if domestic prices for grain are allowed to increase to
an import parity level.
2/  Future replacements financed by accumulated depreciations.
3/  Turnover tax on inputs and produce not included since these amounts would be forthcoming even without project.  Reimbursements of ECODD for
services performed by marketing centers will be reflected in ECODD's budget requests.
February 4, 1977



ANNEX 18
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Customs Duties & Taxes (Birr '000)
Civil      Vehicles
Works    & Equipment      Total
A.   Total Project Cost
Including Contingencies
AMC                            36,1651/    6,522
EGA + MOA                       1,000-       268
Subtotal                  37,165      6,790
B.   Customs Duties & Taxes            10%        25%
C.   Total Duties & Taxes             3,717      1,698        5,415
1/   MIIF
April 9, 1976



ANNEX 19
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MARKETING PROJECT
Monitoring Indices
(Monthly data)
A.   Volume of transactions
Volume of seed delivered to State farms
"    "   "      "        " ECODD/Cooperative Societies
Volume of fertilizers delivered to State farms
It    t   "                     " ECODD/Cooperative Societies
Volume of pesticides delivered to State farms
"  "    "         "    "  ECODD/Cooperative Societies
Volume of grain bought through ECODD/Cooperative Societies
"    "   "      "    from    State farms
if   f     to "Imported
Volume of grain sold to Mills
Wholesale
Retail
On export
Inventory of grain
it     It inputs
Number of ECODD marketing centers/cooperative societies receiving inputs
from AMC.
Number of ECODD marketing centers/cooperative societies engaged in grain
marketing on behalf of AMC.
B.   Pricing (For specified grades)
Average Addis Ababa AMC wholesale price for wheat
of  it  it  it  it  it   of   barley
of      if    it   if    of        of "i    maize
it"of         i    it     i        IS "   sorghum
teff
1/   Including oilseeds and pulses.



ANNEX 19
Paae 2
Average Asella AMC producer price for wheat.
if     it     it    of      "1    "?   barley.
it    Jimma   to             "    " maize.
teff.
AMC c.i.f. import price for wheat.
C.   Facilities
Total average at hand
of which leased
of which input storage
Storage construction initiated
is        "completed
AMC trucks operational
Number of MT/Km performed.
D.  EGA
Total number of wholesalers registered.
Disbursements from MIIF Number
Volume.



IBRD 12045
COPAPR 190
ETHIOPIA
GRAIN SOAEAND
N   R edo                                    MARKETING PROJECT
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    \ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     11 A--1
/  $ ~~~~~~~~~e( ~~~~~~  .-   .)ea ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~11- -3..'i
R                               /~~~~~~~~   EaAEQ
/  \~~~~~~~-   I Moore     '~~~~~~~~~Glf                           a     Ade
G~- 0                                                            -a2
WI                                                     Di,e~~~~~~~~~'    D.'.niorr, aa
L                          E   W~~4E 
)       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'    W5,E   -  D?E ~~~~~~~   S   H   F   W~~        Dire DAeR
J-"-A  ibi A(D                                 s
c-~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~ L  U  B  A   B  OIZAQOE      A M~e -UNw Ae                             L A                                                        
A'
Lf GANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



