Docum_M of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPv
Report No. P- 5727-RW  Type: (PM)                      RIqiNIL  P-5727-RW
BAUDOUY, JI X34015 / J7 047/ AF3PH
MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
FOOD SECURITY AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
MAY 27, 1992
This documean has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its conents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Dank authorization.



N            TSUEUALENTS
(as of January 1992)
Currency Unit                    Rwandese Franc (FRW)
US$1.00                         FRW 120
GOVERNUM E, MAMA-- FIS,CAI,,
January lst - December 31st
EEIGHLAND MEASURES
Metric System
AMMBMUATIQNS
AGSAC                            Agriculua  Sector Adjustment Credit
ADS                              Acquired Immunw-Deficiency Syndrome
BCP                              BureaudeCoordinationdu PNAS (PNAS
Coordinaton Office)
FINSAC                           Financial Sectr Adjustment Credit
GNFS                             Goods and Non Factor Services
IDP                              Institutional Development Fund
ILO                              Interational Labor Office
LDWs                             Labor-Based Works
LlR                              Liberal Iport Regime
NGO                              Non Govnmental Organization
OGL                              Open General License
PE                               Public Enterprise
PEP                              Public Expenditre Program
PER                              Public Expditure Review
PPP                              Policy Framework Paper
PNAS                             Propramme National d'Action Sociale
(National Social Action Program)
UNDP                             United Nations Development Program
WFP                              World Food Program



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
RWANDA
EOOD SECIM=I A,SD SOCIAL ACI1O EMJECr
CREDIT AND QM SUMAR
Borrower:                  Republic of Rwanda
*        INeneficiaries:             Not applicable
DM&tAnn4.                  SDR 14.0 million (JS$19.1 million)
Tems:                      Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Not appl - ble
Percentage Total
NACMAN                                Loal                      lowcostrn   ICo
(US$ million)
IDA                                   12.5           6.6         19.1            42
UNDP                                   1.0          2.1           3.1             8
WFP                                    8.9          7.0          15.9            33
Goverment                            *8.0            -            8.0            17
TOTAL                          30.4          15.7        **"46.1
* Part of goverment's contrbution will be covered by the Unified Countpat Fund (pool of counterpart
fnds ad     ted by the Treasuy) and by the Unified Road Fund (managed by the Ministry of Public
Works) for communal road maintenace.
*Excluding US$2.5 milion equivalent for taxes and US$0.86 million equivalent for import duties.
Enomic aB   of Retu         Not applicable
Staff &Maw                 Report No. 10373-RW
Me:                       IJBRD No. 23684
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMEATION OF TME RIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUtIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CRUDIT TO THE REPUBUC OF RWANDA FOR A FOOD SECURITY
AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECr
1.          I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommedon on a proposed
development cet to Rwanda for SDR 14.0 mIllon (UJS$19.1 miion eq aet). Te proposed credit
woud be on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturi and would help finance targeted food security
and social programs in Rwanda. The project would be co-fmnced with WFP (US$15.9 million), and
UNDP (UIS$3.1 million). Part I of this report discusses the country's polcy and the Bans assitn
strategy. Part   describes te social st, he Food Seci  and Soci   con Project and the
prposed 11DA credit.
MIR I - COVN PlICI1S-ND BNANK GROUPE ASfLANCE SITGY
2.           Rwanda is a small landlocked couty in Central Africa. Its per capita GNP was about
US$310 in 1990. The expoitation of the country's scarce naual reouces Wluding arable land) is
by its mountainous terrain and he log distnces to the nearest sea ports. With 7.3 miUion
inhabitants, Rwanda is the most densely popated country of Africa (280 Inbitants per square
kilometer) and has one of the world's fastest demographic growth rates (currently 3.6 percent per
annum).  he contry is populated by two main ethnic groups (Hutus, the majority group, which
re      about 85 percent of tie pqpulation, ad the minority TIts18 who were poliically dominant
befoe            . Edmic conaicts led to a major exle of Tutds in 1959, befoe independence in
1962. Since then, only minor   dents ot etnic violence had occurred until exed Tusis invaded
Rwanda in October 1990. Althodh the Govermnt was able to reped the iWas, sporadic fight
has conted. Rwanda's social indicators, Which used to be above the sub-alaaran Africa averages,
have lipped in recent years and are now on a par with the rest of the coDnt   Life expectay is only
49 years; 53 percent of the popuaio Is ilteate.; and infant moraity Is 119 per thous     The AIDS
eidemic is one of the worstin the world; malaria   spreading; and _imatron is pervae.
3.           Rwanda is a p m       ntly r    socy. Neady 93 percent of fte population lives in
rua aeas and derves its livelihood from subsitc agriculture and the cultivation of coffee and tea
for export. Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of GDP ad for the employmnt of some 90
percen of the   ve labor foce. Coffee and tea accout for 80 percet of the country's export earnings.
Apart from some agro-industriD activities, the industrid sector is small and InefficienLt. After years of
contaton of output, the mining of tin, e principal minral resource, vily stopped in 1987, in part
becam   of the uncompe   exchae rate. Public and mixed enterprises play a key role in the
economy; transport, marketing and export of coffee, tea and pyretm  are all managed by public
entewprises. Local etrene ip is not well developed, except for a smal but dynamic informal
m*o           sector. In addIti   the physical constraints, te major obstaes to privae sector
development are the presence of the state as a privileged cometor and a disabling environment
carceied by an hAquate Icentive system and pervaigovenm         intfer    in vhtually al
apects of economic life.



-2-
4.          Rwanda is heavily dependent on foreig assistance. In recent years, external assistance
financed about 60 percent of imports and 90 percent of public investmet, and was equivalent to about
US$30 per annum per capita; It conisted mainly of grants, of which about half was for tewchil
assistance. Rwanda has had a reputation amongst donors of bein a relatively well-managed country:
its people and administon are hard working; civil servants are generally competent and disdharge their
duties conscientiously; corruption is not a major Issue; the road system is excellent by sub-Saharan
African standards; and telephones and other public utlities function well.
5.          President Habyarimana came to power in 1973 through a military coup and proclaimed
a one-party state. The new regime followed a benevolent patrDistic approach in relation to the rurai
population thrugh pricing policy, investment and the development of basic services in the rural areas.
At the same time,.the authorites mantne strong contol on rurl migration, enforced madatory
cultivation of ceain crops-coffee in particular-and have mobilized the population for compulsory
community labor ('Umuganda') for road improvements, tree planting and soil conservation. The result
has been a higly regimented society in which, up to very recenly, private initiative was limited.
6.          In July 1990, responding to mountng domestic and eternal pressure, the authorities
initiated a political reform proess. Following the invasion of the country by Tutsi rebds in October
1990, the authoritis ac-elerated the political reforms. In June 1991, a new constiton was adopted and
in October 1991 political parties were legalized. In April 1992 a transitional coalition Govenment was
formed, headed by a Prime   nistr from one of the five opposition parties  preentd in the new
cabbinet The new Government has confirmed its support of the adjustment process and has undertaken
a diplomatic initiative to find a negotiated solution to the ongoing conflict with the Tutsi rebels. New
pariamentary and presidenti elections are expected to take place within the next 12 months.
D. AonomIt Pold  ndeafonanm
7.          In the 1960s and 1970s, Rwanda pursued prudent finacial policies. This, coupled with
generous external aid, resulted In sustained growth in per capita income, low inflation rates and one of
the lowest levels of exteral indebtedness in Africa. However, in the 1980s, the authorities responded
to the shap fall of world coffee prices by Increasing controls over the ewcnomy instead of adjustng to
the new external enironent and maintai   the competIiveness of the economy. The sharp decline
in per capite income asciated with the terms-of-trade deterioration was compounded by the iappropriate
interventonst policy response, which led to an adverse envioment for the effcient use of resources and
discouraged the development of private sector actvity.



-3 -
Table 1: Selected Uconomic Indcat( a
1980-85     198689          199       1221 (a)
GR04TH RATES tb)
GDP market prfee                              2.9         -0.2         -1.2         -2.9
Export volume (GNFS)                          2.4         -2.3         31.2         -8.5
Import volume CG&NFS)                        6.9          -5.8         -9.3         -1.8
RATIOS (MZ cc)
Debt Servcee/Exports tG&RFS)                  4.7          7.5         17.4         20.4
Gross Investment/GDP                         16.1         1.3          11.6         13.2
Gross Domestic Savings/1OP                    4.2          8.2          2.8         -0.5
Pubitc Saviisw/GDp                            3.0          2.2         -4.9        -12.6
6overnient Revenue/auP {d)                   12.4         12.2         12.2         13.2
Government Expenditure/GOP Cd)               11.6         18.7         24.7         28.0
Overall Budget Deffcit/GOP Cd)                0.8         -6.5        -12.5        -14.8
Current Account/GDP Ce)                     -13.4        -10.3        -11.1        -13.0
INDICES
Cansumer Prices (growth rate)                 t.7          1.7          9.1         15.0
Terms of Trade (1987-400)                     110          135           83           95
Real Effective Exchange Rate (1987a100)      74.7        109.7         90.4         57.0
(a)    Preliminary estimates.
(b)    Based on 1985 prices.
(c)    Based on current prices.
cd)    Excluding grants.
(e)    Excluding official transfers.
S.    In ealy 1990, after a ptacted dialogue with the Bretton Woods intutions, the Government
decided to brek with past interventionist policies and, with the help of the Bank and Fund, embarked
on an adjustmn program. Ihe Govenment's adjustment program was described in its frst Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1991-93, which was dbcussed by the Committee of the Whole in April 1991.
In late 1990 (in the midst of the Tutsi exiles' invasion) the authorities implemented 'up front" some of
the most important and politically difficult measures of the program: (i) the Rwandese fanc was
deaued by 40 pernt in SDR tems (67 percent in local currency terms); (ii) the mimum interest rate
on one-year deposits was increased from 6 to 12 percent and the maxinum lendig rate from 12 to 19
percent, all oiher deposit interest rates were freed, and a unified rediscount rate of 14 percent was
duced; I4) petroleum prices were raised by 79 pert on average, in order to pass through to the
consumer the full impact of the devaluation, briig  the price of gasoline to the equivalent of US$3.80
per galon; (iv) as partofatariff reform, inimum Importduties were set at 10 percent; and (v)the sales
tax was almost doubled, to an average of about 10 percent.
9.    In 1991, despite the continued clashes with the rebels and a difficult inter    political situation,
the Govenment continued the implementation of the adjustment program which was supported by an
arrngement under the IM's Structural Adjustme  Faclity (SAP, approved in Aprfl 1991), an IDA-
financed Strucual Adjustment Credit (SAC) of $90 million approved in June 1991, and substantial
balance of payments assistance by other donors, which was mobilized at a donors' meeting organized by
the Bank. Specificaly, the anorities implemented the following key measues under the program: (i)
an inia liberalk-Ation of the foreign examge allocation system wkh the establishment of a Liberal
Import Rgime (LI) covering 70 percent of imports of goods; (i) elimination of all export taxes, except
for coffee; (iii) elimination of import proitions for protective pupose and import quotas; Civ) adoption



-4 -
of a new simplffled import tarff strucure by reducing the number of Import tarff rates from 14 (ranging
from 0 to 220 percent) in 1990 to 5 ratm (rangilg from 1to 0 100 percent) In 1991; (v) abolition of
controls on profit margins and on prices (except for monopolies, a few basic commodities such as
petroleum products and    icals, and hellth services); (vi) el_miton of the legislation rering
governent approval for the cio n of priv  business  and (vil) a 50 percent increase In water and
electricity tariffs.
10.   Contued deprWessed world coffee prices and sporadic clashes with the Tutsi refugees caused
severe economic disruptions which led to a 1.2 percent decline in GDP in 1990 and a frther decline of
2.9 percent in 1991. The sectors most severely affected have been m uring,    port, trade, and
tourism  Internal commerce has been lagely dirupted by the security measures and roadblodcs
intoduced to prevnt infltrtion by the rebels; and a large proportion of external trade has had to be re-
ued away from the northeastern corridor - the region where most of the fightig has been taing
place - with a resulting inre  in costs. The budget deficit cluding capital grants) reached 10.3
percent of GDP in 1990 and 11.8 percent in 1991 (12.5 percent and 14.8 percent, respecdvely, when
capital grants are excluded). The deterioration of the fiscal situation was due primarily to the rapid
expansion of military outlays, which reached 4.5 percent of GDP in 1990 and 7 percent in 1991
(compared to about 2 percent on average during the precedwg ten years). As a resut, the share of
development expendiure in the budget declined from about 90 percent in 1989 to 75 percent ia 1991.
The social 'sety net' which had been inorporated in the adjustment program was adversely affected
(e.g., spending for medicines was only 25 percent of the budgeted alocatlon). nflation (annual average)
increased to 9 percent in 1990 and 15 percent in 1991 (due to the devaluation), although it decelerated
towards the end of 1991 to about 10 percent and is eWpected to decline further in 1992.
11.  The balance of payments was aso negatively affected. Export eanins declied by an estmated
6.7 percen in 1991, mainly reflecting unfvorable developments in the coffee sector and sluggish exports
in other sectots, with the excepdon of tea. Merchandise imports increased by an estmated 2.1 percent
in 1991, mainly due to an increase in military imports. Consequendy, the current account deficit
increased from 11.1 percent of GDP in 1990 to an estimated 13 percent of GDP in 1991. However, net
reserves were rebuilt in 1991 to the equivalent of 3.8 months of imports, from virtually zero at end-1990.
12.  The frst PFP assmed an early return to peace, and the macroeonomic faework was
ibrmulated accordingly. That key assumpon, however, proved optimisdc as the armed conflict has
conned. As a coneqence, althugh the Governent implemeted he other adjus_tm  measres
agreed in the context of the SAC and the SAE, becase of higher military expediture and lower revenue
from the recession, in 1991 the overall fiscal defici was higher an the target; essenial cvilim spending
was compressed; and domestic arre    accumulated.  The macro-nomic framework requires
rormulation to achieve maximum feasible adjustment under the curent county circ nc.
Specifically, the objective shoud be to resume growth and graduaiy reduce   fiscal deficit, while
icreasing developme expenditur, including on the social afety net. Bank and Fund staff have
collaborated closely to define the broad parameters of a realisdc macro-economic frmework  Bank and
Fund missions are ex ed to visit Rwanda shordy to work with the Rwandese authotes on the
reformulation of revised maco-economic frameworlk



C. CAutaLnuloDz1aztJm
1. Mm Ink Ahead
13.  Rwanda Is at a rossroads. It Is faced w    the managm    of two transitio-political and
economic-while coping with an amed oflict tht s diuptg eonomic actvity and draining scace
resources. On the political   t, the challenge is to coniue progress towards politcal pluralism while
ethnic recoiliation and finding a negotated solution to the fighting. The economic
chale  is bto get the country back on th  path to sustainable growth and to reverse the socia
deiotion resulting from the recent economic decline and rapid p ion growth.
14.  To resm   growth, th Govemment needs to purue the adjustm   agenda and to pursue,
specifically, fur inrrelatd gena  objecdves: (I) pvae setor-based economic growth and exp
growth and diversificion; Qi) reduced role of the state and impoved public sector mahiagement,
in    g a reduction in non-developmet expenditure; (di) development of human resources (including
aievement of demographic and poverty alleviadon goas); and (iv) impred management of natural
reources.
2. EQs Privas & -13co5 Grh and
15.   Susted ecotsomic gowth in Rwanda requires di ficaon and tronger export-orietaton.
Becas there is alost no unused arable lnd left, agrlcultd    growth must rely on inceased yields and
higher prod   qulit. Incresed production and employment can come also from labor-intensive export-
oent  industry. The technogical and managerial requiments of this shift t new exports can only
be asued by the private sector. Accordingly, the Govment has decided to give the highest priority
to  empl      a gprvae sectorased growth-promoting stratwegy.
16.  In order to e ce extn  competess, buiding on the reforns of 1990-91 and in addition
to mintining a competive exchag rate, the Govenment is commed to  tablising in 1992 a on-
discrimnato  forei4n eang allocation regime through an Open General License (OGL) system
by commercial banks. In the tariff reform area, the next steps are to lower nominal and
effective protect  further by reducing the tariff range t 10 to 80 percent in 1992 and to 10 to 60
percet in 1993. The long-term objective shld be to sduce the range to 10 to 40 percent In addition,
the government has undertaken a refom of the regulatory framework encompassig the reform of the
labor code and the legal famwork in which busineses operate.
3-        te b*  of the S3a.  ldmving bliR
17.  To allow the private sector room to develop, the state needs to redefie its role in the economy,
away from  i         and conrol and tward the promotion of pe  initiative and invesem   In
the longterm, the    ibi  of growth will depnd largely on the Govmetms ability to mobilize
domestic savigs. In the m        the priories are to: () refrm and reduce the public enterprise
(P) sector; (a) Imrove the composon of public ex tre; and (iii) increase the efficiency of public
resource management.
18.   Concerning PR reform, a new institutional and legal framework has been daborated for Pes, to
increas their autonomy and         and improe their efficiency fthrough       divestitre
and ludation of non-viable Peas. An action plan cwveng 40 enterprises I  dr impl    n   and
supported by an IDA-financed Public Enterprise Refim  Project approved in FY90. Furnhmore,



-6-
publicly owned agro-industties are being testructured and opened up for private sector participation in
the framework of a proposed agriculr sector adjusument operation, currently under preparation.
19. Concerning the composition of public spending, the objecive is to increase the share of outlays
for development activities. As mentioned earlier, the share of development expenditures in total public
expenditures declined from about 90 percent in 1989 to about 75 percent in 1991. increases are justified
and urgently needed in some categories, especially the social *safety net' established in the framework
of the stctural adjustm  progm   Another priority is operation and maitenance, which is crucial
for the producivity of the infastructure investments made in the 1970s and 1980s and the quality of
public services.
20. Concerning the efficiency of public resource management, the Government has adopted a three-
year 'rolling" pubiic investment programming system incorporating economic slectdon criteria. The
1992-94 public investment program, which has been reviewed by the Bank in collaboration with major
donors, represents substantial progress o-ver previous investment programs, but fSuther progress is
needed. In particular, monitoring of financial and physical project execudon is itill weaL in adfition,
a rapid and orderly resolution oi the problem of domestic arrear is required in order to restore Rwandas
good record of day-to-day economic management.
4. Developng Huma Resuces and Alleviaidng Poxcay
21.   The most formidabie long-term issue facing Rwanda is its high ppulWi ngrowth: at the present
3.6 percent amnual growth rate, Rwandas populaon wil double in about 20 years. Ihe demogrwhic
momentum is such that Rwandaes population is bound to contue to increase rapidiy before any fahdily
planning measures can make a diference. Given its limited resources and employment opportunities,
Rwanda could face soci unrest and growing extern  tensions with neighboring countries unable or
unwilling to absorb large numbers of inmigrans. The environental implications of rapid popuaion
growth in an already densely-setled county--discussed in the next section-are also serious. Ia 1990,
the Government adopted a populaon policy seting a very ambitious target of reducing the rate of
population growth to 2 percent by the year 2000, and is developing programs in famly plannig. The
Bank is supporting these efforts through the ongoing Pamily Health project and a Population project
approved respecdvely in FY86 and FY91, which will improve the quality and efficiency of fmnily
planning services delivered in public health centers.
22.   HdA stdards deteriorated over the last decade due to a combination of under-funded public
health prgms and a worsening health environment. Two major public health hazards have emerged
in the 1980s and are causing severe human and economic losses: malaria, with an eight-fold increase in
the mber of cases reported in the last decade; and AIDS, with an estimated 25 percent of adults
between the ages of 15 and 45 living in urban areas testing seropositive. In addiWon, food insecurity and
malnutrition have increased largely because of the population pressure. Concening euwciQon, over the
last five years, the primary enrollment rate about doubled, to 62 percent, but the quality of primary
education declined as the number of qualified teachers and the provision of educational materals did not
grow in proportion. Unless a major effort is made to ince  the educadon budget and improve the
efficiency of the education stystem, the quality of primary education wfll further deteriorate and enrollment
rates will decline to 50 percent by the year 2000. The governmmet began addring these issues in 1991
by initiaing an education reform - primary schooling was reduced from 8 to 6 years. The Bank is
suppordng this reform through the ongoing education sector project approved in FY91.
23.  Wmei represent about 60 percent of agricultur labor and produce most of the food crops in
addidon to collectng fuelwood, fetching water, cookig and caring for childraL The key elements of



-7-
the GovemntWs sategy concerning women we: O) expansion of girls' access to education; (i)
exhancement of Wome' acces to headth SW    ; (11 empowerment to decde on the size of thirk
family; and (iv) targetin of women In poverty-oriented micro proJec in rura areas.
24.   Since 93 percent of the populion lives In rura areas, VW= in Rwanda s overwhedmingly a
rai phenomenon. The farm size has been reduced to a poit where the stin    of family frms
b thretened; morever, food productin has aggWd behind p         owth. As a resul, food
yIecurity has become praent In the southern and wstern part of the country. The Government's
strategy   to allviate poverty ftroug the resmption of rapid economic growth, fas  employment
creation, and social progams targeted towards the poorest segments of tie population. Agricuural
diversification and the deveopment of labor intesive export-orited Idustries would create additional
jobs and cotribute to food secrity by geng forign excage eanigs to fince neoded Impots
of foodsuff. There i also a need to ensure ta basic soci services are protected, while the fisca
deficit is reduced to sustainable level. Accordigly, the Goverment has built a soci 'saety net Inlto
its public expdiU progrm. The Government has pred a targeted social action program, which
is suppored by the operation recommened in this repor
S. Imodw   fth  a^et o Nal Rlesources
25.  Enviroment degadation is a major development Issue In Rwanda. Over the past two decades,
forest cover has shrnmk by 25 percent, while the Incre     cultvation of margin  land has led to a
reduction of pasture land. Ihe most Immediate enviroment  concerns include: soil erosion and
inftlity, war quaity degrdation, and destrucdon of forests for fuelwood.
26.  Rwauda has a long-stani  commitmn to environmenta protection and is making a serious
effort to defe mac-eonomic and sectoral development strategies COistent with this commitment
'his was recognized by the Smitsonian Insttuton which awarded Rwanda a prize for eiomenta
prtctionIn meary 1992. The legal framework for envr_onme  planning and management is largely in
place. In May 1991, thfe Governmen adopted an Envoment Strateg and an Action Plan, which was
paed with Bank assistance. This plan is being tranated into indid    projects for etea
g.~~~D
.                   ~~~~~D. NWmi-erm geetsan EanQ RNWAts
27. The macro-economic framework of the first PFP wvas deeloped in early 1991 and was built on
the assumption that there would be a rapid cessation of hostides, a scenario which appeared plausible
at the time. In fact, although a cease-fire was sigped In March 1991, the armed conflict has conued,
disrupng econmic activity and cnumig scarce resources. Positive per capita growth   unlikely in
the near future; the prospec  for private invesmt in the short-term are also bleak; and a quick and
substanta reduction I the fisca deficit would not be realistic under the prevailiw  circ . In
light of ongoing war and adverse terms of trade, Bank staff prepaed revised economic projections for
Rwanda. These projectons assume that (i) the recent politia opening will bring a quick end to
hostilifies; and (H) an early agreement wil be reached between the Govarmen  and the Bretton Woods
istiut    on a new macro-onomic framework and a second PFP for 1992-94, which would serve as
a basis for continued balance of payme  support
28.   The key targets of these teatve projections are to: O) reach a 4 percent annual GDP growth rate
by 1995; (U) limit inflation to 4 perzA per am; and (iii) reduce the fiscal deficit (excluding grants)
from 14.5 percent of GZ)r :a 1991 to aound 9 pert  of GD)P in 1995. Under this scenario, gr



8 -
investme  wi  ncrae from 13.2 percent of GDP lia 1991 to 15 pecet   1995, with the share of
privatoe Invaent growing from 4.1 peco of GDP in 1991 to about 5 prcent In 1995. Domestic
saving ar etimated to increase from 2 percent of GDP in 1991 to over 6 percent over the same period.
Only a modest Improvemeat is expected In th trade balace as eport  re expeceted to continue to be
afected by the depressed level of world coffee prices, and only modest increes are projected In export
of tea and ming products. Chian Imports would Ibn    ov  th period as the economy recovers
from Its dersed level and the ratio of expor to Impor of goods Ii projected to inca  from 42
perct in 1991 fo 44 percen in 1995. The cuT acon  deict would dedine from 12 perce  of
GDP in 1991 to 10 percent of GDP in 1995. Rwaas external debt is almost certain to remain sma
as the govemment is expected to continue to rdy exclusively on gra  and higly concesslonal credit.
The debt svice ratio is projected to increase from 20.4 percent I 1991 to about 24 perceft in 1995 and
to dece gradually thereafter.
29.   Achieving these objectives would depend not only on the condtned implemtation of the
adjustment program, but alo on the timely avalablitiy of adequae external fhiuncing. Exter  capital
requ ireiens for 1993-95 are tentatively projected to total US$940 million (US$314 million per year on
average). This assumes, among other things, a firther reconsution of net reserves to the equivalent of
abut four months of GNFS hIport by end-1993 - an eenta  fianlal cusion to underpin fuil iprt
liberaizatioand econoic recovery. Gr    arZeprojectod atUS$327 millon; grossprojectlendingfrom
current commimen   at US$192 million (of which US$92 million from IDA projects); and disbum
from new projects at US$189 mililon. These projections yield an inlitial g  of US$233 millon for 1993-
95. Of this, US$77 million would be financed by IDA credb for structural and sector adjustment, and
US$12 million by the IMP SAP. The resdual gap of US$144 million would be filled by additonal
assistance in the framework of the Specia Progrm of Awssa    for Africa. These projections will be
firmed up ia the context of the next PFP.
IL Ihnk           st A _m &MM
1. EBffwvene gaukt Ba ance
30.   ank rWD ogr. Since 1970, Rwanda has received 43 IDA credit totalling US$612.4
million, and two Speci Afiam Facility crets (US$25 million). IPC has financed three loa  nd two
equity participa. To date, VDA commitment have financed: (a) hInraucture development (36.8
pern), padculary road constrctio  and (mb) agricultural and rural developmet (22.7
percent), with strong emphasis on fming sym  research, exteMion servc  improvement, input
supply, and reforestaton; (c) sttal adjumt (14.7 percent); (d) human resources development (14.3
perce), esecay primary educain, preventive health care svices, nd famfly planing; (e)
development of sma and medium cepris  (6 percet); (t) dwevpmen of local ener  sources and
energy conservain (3.9 percent); and (g) technicd a ce (1.6 percet).



.9-
Table 2
mwh: Distributfmn of Ldr, F17WI
Qi_ttim)
Nuber of
8ector                     AMPe                               Mralects
Infrastructure                     5  
Roe'                       TO.
tranport                    40.0               6.5                1
Trtecmm.tcattcga            20.3               3.3                2
Urban                       32.0               5.2                1
Vtotr Suppty                28.0               4.6                2
Aericutture                                                             ii. E  1
Agriculture                 103.8             16.9                9
Forestry                    35.1               5.?                2
HnUM Resources                     ELI              ,A, .f
Eicatien                     T.0               9.3                4
Health                      10.8               1.S                I
PoptLation                   19.6              3.2                1
Energy                             LD                19 
Flnu  Indatry ard PutfLc
Entopsse R.fo.t fE                                                       A
Frnanckdtry                 25.2               4.1                4
Pubtc Enterprise Reform     11.8               1.9                2
Structural Adjutt ent.0
Teohnical Assfstance                LI                M                  I
612.4            100.0               43
31.   1ffectivenmes of _go. Mhm Banlkes progrm has bee pursed In a climate of
genry good relatioDs wi  the  ovme           In all sectors in which the Bank Is active, the
Govermet has generMy been receptive to the Bans advice on macro and setoral development issues.
The aurent potko    cludes 19 IMA Credits. TMm disbuemen rate has bee slow, aveaig about
8 perct of the outding portfoflio in FY88  (compad to 1 perce  for subSaha   Africa), and
has d    rted shaply in FY90-91 to an avea  of 4.5 percent of portfolio, largely as a result of the
armed hostities and conut h ity. Curreny, about one half of tota comm               remain
undisbsed. Te following implan  ssues have bee  identfied:  weak management and
nttuto; lengtLy ratification procedures whih dey the effecdveness of credts; cmberome
prouemen procedure; and ipopria  budgey practices for counterp   inds. Ihe counepr
fiunig problem shoud be  bstan y resolved following an agree_m  wfit donors in Februny I992
in the conte  of the latest PuibUc Epetu  Rview (PER) to pool aU c tp   funds In support of
a core expe     program. i agreement, the first Ite fmework of the SPA, elhmia   specific
earmarng and, in addition to fcliatng project execudon across the board, consttes a major step for
the improvement of publc resource managment, which is a key Bank asistan  priority. Also, the
reen impovement in the programming of public Investment shold help accelate the disbueme  rate
for all project. Finally, buildig partdy on tie June 1990 semia In Kigali organized to familiarze
resposible ciil sent with Bank proCUment and dpbucd p            ur, the Bank will conduct
its firt Country ImplemeIaioni Review in FY9



- 10-
2.   e
32. The Bank's main objective In Rwanda is to help promote sustained export-led growth with equity,
to tackle, directly, poverty and deterioratg social coAditions and tO protect the eviroanent. lbrough
its policy advice, leng, economic and secor work, and aid coordinaon, the Bank Is giving priority
to: (i) supportig the counts adjumt process; i) developing an ncentive structue geared at
pmotn epart-ient  privat sector Investmt; Qii) reducing the role of the st    d improving
public resource management; (v) developing human resources, building local capacity, alleviatg wide-
spread poverty, and reducing populaton gowth; and (v) fsering improved magement of natural
resources.
33.   L1n. Assuming early agrennent on a revised macroaeconomic fmework and its successful
implentatdon over the medium term, the proposed IDA lening program would average three to four
opratons a year. The proposed strag implies an annual per capita lend   of about US$11 through
FY95 compared to about US$8 in FY87-91. The share of quick-disbursing support to tal lending is
expected to be in the 35-40 percent range, reflecdng the financial needs of a country at the outset of the
adjustment process. Ihe size and composition of the lendig program would depend on the Government's
progress on adjustment, povety alleviation, protecting the enviroment and increasing the disbursemet
rate of IDA-financed projects.
34.   lb-dwo=  M           T Ihe Bank plans to spport the adjustnt process beyond the ongoing
fir SAC with tr  adjustnt operations. The immediate priority Is to deepen the adjusstme  reforms
dtrough the prposed Fmancial Sector Adjusten  CredK, FINSAC-already negoited and Agricultura
Sector Adjustmet Cit, AGSAC-already appraised. Ihe opatons, together with the fist SAC,
suort the first phase of the Government's adjustnent program and are key to creating an appropriate
business envwnment to foster economic recovery and to successfilly implement ongoing investment
projects. The FINSAC woud promote private sector development by supporting a more efficient
financi    n       system; and the AGSAC would support a seies of reforms aimed at moving the
cWcal agricut  sector away from a heavily rim    system of producton and at reducing the role
of the state in i  These credit will be presented for approval following an agreement on a revised
mm-ecowmic frmeor, ilnduding a feasible and steady reduction of the deficit and an increase in
developmel expediture.  They would be folowed by SAC U, to complete the reforms of the
reguator framework, public resource management and the Incetive sysm
35.   In addion to quick-disbursing oprations, the Banl's lending program includes a number of
investmnt projects addressing Rwanda's cetWal development issues. The objective of R sMtaL-
based gowth would be supported by: a Priva  Sector Development project, to improve the regulatory
and istuional frameork for private businesses and provide commercial ba in d credit to
the prvat sector; and a Second Agricultural Research project, building on the experience from the first
project, to ort prmotion of higher yields and fertilizer research.
36.   Ihe objective of m     oubi;c reurce mam      u= would be pursued largely through the
annal PERs, backed by conditionality under the adjustment opaons and though a Communal
Delopent project, wbich would support capacity building of local governments, urban development
and local inatives.
37.   In addion to the operation descrbed in this report, and the on-going opeons in this area (e.g.
the Health and Poput   project), the human ra rce and  etv  allevion  bWectives will be



suported In the medium term by the following proJects: a Medical Supplies Sub-sectr project, to
Improve-the availability of medines ad the management and facing of the sub-sector; an Education
project, to improve acc  to and quality of seconday educadon; and the Third Water Supply project to
increase safe drinkng water avalabiity in rural areas and sanitatin in major cities.
38.   YWomen!s deviXment will be supported through the on-going and proposed population, health
and education projects, as wel as through the proposed recommended i this report and the proposed
AGSAC. One of the man objectives of the on-going famly health and population projctss b to reduce
mater  mortality rates. The prtnay objective of the ongoing education project is to increase primary
scbool enolment, which would boost overal access, nluding for girls. Women are a prime target
group of the food aid and ntritonal component of the project recommended in this report. Finally, the
proposed AGSAC would upport changes in the land tenure code to ensure equal property rights between
men and women (e.g., buy and sell land regstered in their name).
39.   Finally, in additon to the recent Environment Strateg and Action Plan which were prepared with
Bank assistance, the a Lresourme magment objective would be supported by an Energy Sector
project to reduce the use of fuelwood by promoting alteive sources of energy and improving charcoal
production tehiwques, the Second Agicltural Research project, and a ForestryiEvoent project to
iVmo forestry m gment and develop tree plantions to arrest soil erosion.
40.   Economic and Sector      nl recent years, major economic and sector reports helped document
the case for adjustmet and identfy necesay reforms in crucial areas such as the exchange rate, the legal
and reguatory firmework, the financial sector, agriculture, pa ls, and public resource
management1. Future economic and sector work will also be focussed on the Bank's sttegic priorides
strti  with sWport of the adjustm    proces. The evaluation of the first phase of adjusm    and the
Id-fication of    priateconomic reorms for the second phase will be the focus of the next Country
Economic M    a       Y94). An ongoing study of Labor Legislation (FY92) is expected to formulate
reco           aimed at reducing labor market rigidities. Ihe main Istument of Bank assistance for
the pogessive improvement in public resources management wil contmue to be the annual PEr-. Future
PERs would also aim to bring about gr       tasparency in resource allocation, improvements in
pement proces, and systemac audits of public an  accounts. Poverty alleviation will
be addressed th   a povety  _as    report, scheduled to start in FY93, and the annual PERs will
hebp the Governmnlt formulate yearly a program of key expen to be protected as part of the
safety net". A study of secondary and higher education (FY93) as well as a study on health cost
recovery (FY94) wMi constute the main vehicles for the dialogue on huuma resourcs development
policies.
41.       ihion and PortflikManagomt Supervision efforts will be strengthened and specific
will be incuded in aU new project to adres impletn issues. In addition, annual
See County Economic M ndum    port No. 6191-RW), the First Public
Expendture Revi  (Report No. 7717-RW), the Financal Sector Study (Report
No. 8934-RW), and the Agdrculal Sector Review (Report No. 8704-RW). The
two latter reprts lay the bas  for policy reforms to be suppoted by the
proposed FINSAC and AGSAC.



- 12-
Country Implemeation Reviews (CR) wl provide a firaework for a dlalogue on mpwovilg project
Impi      on.  he         CIR will be cafried out in FY93. Speca emphasis will be put on bmproving
prcemnt procedur  to accelerate the dis ement rate. Siuce prcuremet Isues bave been
idendfied as a major obstacle to project Implemention, a Country Prcement Assesme  report wil
be preped in FY93.
42.            A      c                      in the context of the ovel objectve of human
resource development, the Bankes aim is to promote the type of technica asmistc tht helps build local
capacity, in both public and pva  nstitutns. Given the Governmnens prfce  to use grants for
nical assistance, the Bank does not propose to fmce freetanding thical a      projects
(once the two ongoing projects are Implemened). Instead, the Bank will: $ Inroduce selected
assi e components In fute projects; (i) collaborate with UNDP in the preparaton of a
tecal assistace management fework in support of the Government's adjustment program; and (il)
help develop local consulting services throgh grant support from the Baik's proposed Insdtutional
Development Fund (IDF). As a general rule, the Bank will, in consultation with other donors and to the
extent feasible, encourage the ahories to limit expaie asistance to highy specialized services and
use thbe expets for short-term consultations, while asring tt the asistce also makes a positive
contribution to tainng of local counterparts and building of local capacity.
43.   Aid Cggd4anafndk Rl sd= w }It     . Over the past two years, the Bank has regulaly kept
the major donors informed of its policy dbscussion with Rwanda. The strog pateship with don
which devdoped during the prepton of the first Stucturl AdJustment Credit wil be manained
during the next phase of adjument. Evidence of the positive coopeaton among donors is the agreement
on ratondalizing the utilii  of counterpa finds noted earier (para 31) and their colaboraion in
PERs. In March 1991, In the framwork of the Special Program of Aitanc   for Africa, the Bank
rganized a donors meeting on Rwanda to mobilize exteral financial astamce for the adjustme
program In 1991. UNDP has scheduled a Round Table meewt for July 1992; the Bank has helped in
is preparion by reviewing the goverment's public iwtmvt program
44.   Clos coilaboration with the IMF has been a  g-standng featre of Bank relas with Rwanda.
The first PFP was prepared joinly by the authories and lhe staff of the Bank and the Fund. Alao, Bank
and Fund mission have closely coorin    the    and the timng of their waor, and are workig
tgether to help Rwanda fomulat a new medium-term famewodr  The Govenment has requested a
second drawing on the Structual Adjustment Facility, and discions would get under way for a second
year SAP arrangement once a revised macr-economic framework has been agreed.
45.   Opporuies for E: activities in Rwanda have so far been hiited by the small size of the
country, the lack of export-oriented projects, and the iniknt statUs of the pdvatO sector. IFC has made
thr  las to SORWATHE (the Rwadese Tea Compay) -Credits 337-RW, 470-RW and 764-RW-
has take two equit parciation In SORWAL (the Rwande  Company of Mthes) and SORWATHE,
d is in the process of completing two African Enteprise Fumd (AEP) projects. The IFC sees a major
role in Rwanda for AE. Rwanda signed and ratiied the IIGA convention on Octbr 27, 1989, but,
as of mid-May 992, has not paid yet its capital subscription.



13-
3.
46.   In the Immediate fiuro, keeping the country on the adjustnt path will be the main priority In
the Bank's dialogue with Rwanda. While the governmt has d    amonsr    its cmmim    to reform
by impltg the key structura meses agree under the adjustment program, there are a number
of riWs (e.g., ehc violence, polic  instability, social unrest and extn  shocds) which could force
the Goverm nt to deviae fom the adjustmet path and dow the Implentaon of investment projects.
47.   E ByjgIgO. The Goverment has been able to reart control over most of the national
rritory after the Ivasion by Tutsi reigees in la  1990. As noted earlier, tie formation of a
transitional coalition governmet in Apr 1992, with a Prie Mnister who is favorably regarded by the
Tutd commuity, ncs         the prospects for an ely resoludon of th refugee problem  Nevertheless,
the secuity sitato remains fagile and, unti nationa reconciiation is achieved, the risk of ethic
violence will remain a potaly debilizing factor.
48.   Political htabilib. Politcal pluralism Is cddcal to the success of a lasting national reconciation
effr and an efctive dialogue with the refugees. Ihe recent agreemet on a coalition transitional
governme  constitutes n Important step. However, if not ranslated rapidly  ough electons into a
permanent           e government, the transition might lead to civii unrest and stall the adjustment
process. In un, this would weaken donor support for Rwanda. The progress so far in the national
diogue and the decison of major donors to linck thei assistuce to he coniaon of poiNcal reforms
reduces this rlisk
49.   SodI mri Food shortages In tie event of adverse weather could lead to social umest. The
project desce in his report is targetod at te most vulnerable groups and should help reduce t  risk.
Also, to alleviate the risk that some of the adjusent measmes might affect during a transiional phase
the most vulnerable groups, the deds  of the strucura adjustment program includes a soca 'safety nee
wih  would contme under future adjustment oet. Finally, to the extent that the adjustment effor
(pa    ry in agicuue) succeeds in stiulat   growth, economic oppornies and gainful
employme  will expad, cr ate tie conditos for broadbwed socia gan, and thus alleviae social
tesions.
50.       .l dw. A further decline of world coffee prices and additional a rn  difficulties
related tD security problems coud have a negate impact on export eaings and governme  revenue,
*          and thereby weaken the current account of the balance of pay    and the fiscal situa . In order to
alleviate his rsk, the adjustment program provides for a Msbtantia build-p in reserves. In addition,
the response to date of the interal commuity in the fiamework of the SPA in providing adequate
and timely balnceof-payments support indicates that Rwanda can count on Is partners to help it weather
these external sbocs.
F. Cids fao Ekalatg CI ount1 Per
51.   Poe  in the Implm           of the Bankes state  will be monitore by trackg the following
performance b arks:
- rduct in the budget defcit as a percentage of GDP to the levels to be agreed upon in the
second PFP;



- 14 -
-  effective  Iplentan of sctur reforms;
-  irea  in the hA  of developmen expendime to the levels to be agrd in the second
PFP, Icuding efwt   Ilemenation of the soci  safety ne" to be agreed In the
famework of the annual PERs;
-  recovery of privat nvestment and significant progress In exp  diversification:
-  Improved portfolio performance, measured by an increase in the dsbursement rate of Bank-
finaned projects;
-  increase in the contaceptve prevalee rate;
-   Improvement in poverty indicators of target popultion.
52.   The two sector adjustment operations (FINSAC and AGSAC) will be preened to the Board when
an g         is readhed with the Goveent on a revised mar-onomic framework. If the above
bench kat  Indicae a major deterioration in Government performance In implementiDg the adjustment
program, the Bank would not declare these two credits  fecdve, and would hold off further quick-
disbursing assistance and major sector opeaons. Ibstead, it would implement a reduced lending
program (amountg to US$4-S per capita per annum) of one to two investment projects per year aimed
at preserng Rwanda's long-tem development potenal through invwestmnt for poverty allwiaion and
huma capital deveopment
G. &am=
53.   Rwanda is at a swroads, facing a momn      economic and political tastion. As of early
1990, there were no clear signs of change in the intrusive and dominant economic role of the state, the
poltc monopoly of the ruling pary, or the relatonship between the rding Hutu majority and the Tutsi
minority. Just a year later, the Governmnt had embarked on a structur adjustmen program and begun
an opening of the polWcal system, and was fight  off an armed tnvasion by Tutsi refugees. The
military buildup has compwomised the 1991 fiscal targets of the first PFP and the socia safety net
undelying the adjustme program spported by IDA's first Structural Adjustmnt Credit (SAC) and the
AMP's Stuctural Adjusment Faclity (SAF).  Thus, the Govement's cballenge is to manage
simultaneusly  the difficult reform program, the on-going progeson to a multiprty political stem,
and the resolution of the psst  ethnic problem that underlies the armed conflict. In the long run, these
three tasks are complementary, and meeting this dhaienge would put the country on the path of _suined
economic growth.
54.   Tec Bank's strategy iS to respond to the Government's ots by helping to promote sustained
growth with equit, to reduce poverty and to protect the environment. Priy wl be given to
supporting the adju t proces, developing an nentive sructure geated at promoting export-oente
private sector investment, reducing the role of the state and impwoving public resource manement.
Prvided the Govenment demonsr    its cmms    to the needed economic, political and social
reorms, the Bank's lending program will average three to four operations a year, with quick-disbursing
support expected to amount to 35-40 percent of total lending. Goverment pfomance would be
mnitored on the basis of specific benchmak.  Should the Govement fail to demon e its
commiment to the reforms and to impwve the rate of di     on the Bank portfolio, the Bank
would dbcontinue adjustment lendig and reduce its lending program to one or two investment projects
per year aimed at tacking povety direty and at prerving Rwanda's long-wterm potent.



- 1S-
Prr U- TIlE PROPOE CREDIT
55.                   Rwnda's developmet agenda for the 1990s Includes: (a) reversing teon ye
of economic decline through a crhensiv adjstnt progrm  aunched in la4t 1990); (b) mitigating
the negative soci Impact of economic deterioration; (c) controlAing ite eplosive population growth ate
(estmatd at 3.6 percet in 1991) which would lead to a doubling of the current population of 7.3 milion
in less than 20 years; and (d) moving towards a multi-party system and Iitaing a peace process with
rebels based in Uganda. These are dcallenging goals and among them the most urgent one is to end the
war becase military expenditur  are crowdig out other budgetary items, partcldarly socW
expenditus: in 1991, milty outays rersentd 42 percent of the current budget (as compared to 3.8
percent for health). After 25 years of contnuous improvement In living stand, there are signs of
stanation as revealed by cetain social indicators: under-five mortity rate Is still around 200 per
thousand; malmurtion rates reach 30 percent among children and 20 percent for pregnant women. While
these figures are just htly below average for sub4an Africa, they indicate a negative trend. Food
inseurity has become prevalent in the southern areas of the coutry because of the combination of two
ctors: high population pressure on land (more than 400 per kn2 of arable land, the highest density in
Afica) and lack of purchaig power of the population to buy food. Famin  erupted in the South in
1989 with a significant number of people dying of hunger. While the numbers are stll relively small
(as compad with massive famines in certain African counties), they reveal the need for prompt acton
to prevent further deteriion.
56.       Rwda's envoment Is made difficut by naural cause such as dises (the malaia
endemic and te AIDS epiemic are severe) or eatic rain falls (which can ruin harvests) as well as man-
induced problems such as the demental effects of popuation presure on agdeulture and the ecoystm.
Poverty is widespread: a poverty profie based on the findings of a 1983486 household budget
consumption suve confirms the prmise that while Rwanda is globaly poor by inteationals8
(GNP per capha was estmated at US$300 in 1990), certain population groups are so poor that they do
not have the means for adequate survival. These people can be considered as the hard-core poor" and
are the main target grou of the proposed operion. The poverty profile ha also help  idendtfy certain
cs of the poorer families: (a) landess fams and farmers with plots too small to make a
*         living; (b) large families, particuarly in the case of femaleheaded housholds; and (c) vulnerability to
price incres for specMic imported goods (such as pharmceticas and kerosene). Overall, poverty is
essentially a runr phenmenon 93 percent of the populn lives in rural areas and the incence of
poverty is much higher in the countrys  than in urba areas (urban household    _  are 2.4 times
higher). Ihe AIDS epidemic (2 percent of the adults aged 15-45 are Infected in Kigali, a
3 percent in rural areas) is incr g the number of poor by kllgincome earnes at e most productive
age and leaving an ever increaing number of orhas.
57.       Until recey, the govemment's response to these social problems has been hampered by:
(a) the delay In launcing an apropriate populaton progra; (b) insuicient resource allocaons tD basic
health care and public health programs; and (c) the absence of national targeted social programs aimed
towards the basic needs (particularly food securty) of the hard-core" poor whose number i8 increasing
with the deteriorting ecomic dution. Since 1990, the govemen in collaboration with the Bank
has made significant progress In these three reas, in parllel with the luching of the stctur



-16-
adjUsmet progrm  First, on poputon Ises, ihe govermnt has fmally issued a populaion policy
calln for the redcton of the popuatin growth rate and the number of cildren per family. The Bank
Is sporting the ImplementatIon of ths policy through a ipopulton project which was
approved in June 1991. Second, the issue of adequt rource allocation to socidal secto  in general and
health progms in particular is an sentlal element of the Public Expendture Review (PER) iniated
as part of the stuctr adjustmet program. The govrment, however, has seious difficlties fulfilling
its commiment to mainain a safety net of core sodca ex  because of excessive militauy spending
caused by the war. This siuation calls for close monitring and continuous dialogue with the governent
on socia sector policies. Finlly, the need for targetod social programs with a focus on improving the
food security of the poor will be addressed by te prposed operation.
58.       Ptoiect Desiun and Objetives.  no proposed operatd  has been conceived as a
comprehensivo support to the National Social Action Program (troe     National d'Action Sociale -
PM The short term objective of the PNAS is to reduce food Insecurity, malnutrition and other effects
of poventy among the poorest popuation groups of Rwanda. The medium and long tem objectives of
the PNAS are to: (a) induce policy chaes to use efficientiy the most Important asset of the country, its
labor force; (b) conbute to the pomotion and development of off-farm employment at the community
level; and (c) monitor the ling stanards of the population and develop more efficient poverty alleviation
stategies. The PNAS has ftree main taget groups: (a) Indviduals and families with no or insufficient
income-enng capabilities, such as landless farmers, poor female-headed households, AIDS-afflicted
fmilies, orphans and others (annual target of 75,000 people); (b) farmers faced with acte transitory food
insecurty (nnual target could vary from 0 to S50,000 people); and (c) farmers with land smaller than
0.2 hectare which will need off-farm employment to survive (annual target of 25,000 workers and
125,000 dependent). In addition, potent  micro-reprenrs will be the target of the micro-enterprise
development componem: it is estm     tat approimately    mic-enterprises (for a total of 4500
workers and 20,000 dep_) will be created during the life of the project. Overall, the target groups
represent about 10 percent of Rwanda's populatio
59.         =                n  Food Aid and Nuiio con         would aim at reducing food
insecurity and malnutrition through: (a) the provision of food aid by the World Food Program (WFP),
of which more than 50 percent will be purchaed locally to stimula local production) and targeted at
vulnerable fnmilies (with malnorihd  children or pre g   women), AIDS-afflicted households
and orphans, in combination with a package of mtition actvites delvered by the network of mntrition
centers; (b) emergency food aid for regions thratened by acute food insecurity caused by a combinalion
of failed harvest and lack of purchaing power; and (c) implem i  of a coordinated food aid policy
agreed upon between donors and the government Ihe LIbru- Wo  r,BW)..wnn@n  wowld
increase the purchasing power (and thus conibute to Impoving food security) of the population of the
43 poorest communes of tie country (Ientfied out of a tot of 145 on the basis of a poverty Index),
through community-baed public works including: (a) communal road rehabilitation and maintenam ; (b)
anti-erosion and land impwvement measures such as reforestation and agricutural teacing; and (c) oher
works of public interest such as markets and water supply. Ihe Mbwmufz.2 Promotion and
DVAQMM  wo=_ would p;vide ididua  and communities with opportnitIes to develop
productie micro-projects through: (a) the establihmet of a network of traed local leaders who will
be responsible for creatng awareness among the rural population on off-farm employment opportunies
twoUgh fte creation of micet      ; (b) the selection of te most viable projects and training the
by NGs with demonsed experienc in the relevamt fields; (c) assistanc in the process
of obtaing the necessary credits through financial institutions, eier banks or local credit asocaon;
and (d) follow up of microent sand    _         of tir perfmance. Fnly, the Soc ialS na



- 17-
ad  Pover M oIn    omt (US$1.4 milion) would aim at strenghng th govenmment's
capacites to: (a) monitor the living stadards of the population through household-based social surveys;
0) nalyze and thcflninte results of these surveys; and (c) conuto to policy adjustmet for more
effective and efficient poverty alleviation The design of each component has been based on the
eperien  of on-going operat    or pilot projects being carried out in Rwanda. Ihe tot cost of the
proect has been e0mated at US$46.1 million, including US$6.1 millio  for ontigencies. Ihe
breakdown of costs and the fnacing plan are shown In schedile A. Amounts and methods of
prouementl, the disbuem    catWodes and schedule are shown In schedule B. 'Me time table of key
processing events and Bank Group opatons in Rwanda are given in shedule C and D respectively.
A map is atached. Ihe Staff Appraisal Report No. 10373-RW dated May 26, 1992 is being distued
dqray.
60.                            . eFt imnanci al managemnt (including budgeting, disbursemens,
procurement and accountng will be cetrized In a maagemnt unit  urua. de a=d nid
Jmp). It will be located under the umbrela of the Mnisty of Planming which has overal responsibility
for nitoring the soci safety net. Te BCP wil be given an autonomous staus by decree to avoid
undue Interfee    from the aton  In addition, the BCP will be staffd by local expets with
a consultant status and salary benefits comparable to those in the private sector. Technical management
of the Food Aid and Nutrtion, LBWs, and Mic-Enrpe components will be decrlized to specific
ecuting units which will be responle for the day-to-day management of PNAS actvities. The social
msvey compoent will be executed by the Diectrate of Stadtits in the Mnity of Planning. Ihe
execun  8units for LBWs and M ro-entprise are ready operational with UNDPILO suppor  The
executing unk for the Food Aid and Nutrition component wil be established as an opeatonal support
to the Direcrae of Soca Affirs which handes food aid distiut   with the local WFP office.
ontersectora c     i       -agency coordination and overl upevision of the PNAS will be under
te rs ibility of the Cnad d    o dintiuPNASwhichinudes Preprsntv  of all ministries
involved in the PNAS and repesentatives from selected NGOs and donors. The Cnseil wil have a
consultative madate with regards to overal supervision of the PNAS and statec adjustments and an
executve  mandate with regards to maintainin adequate stfng of the BCP and executing units and
following up on the pefornce of tis staff. The BCP wl act as the p   _  secntari of the
QDH1. A UNDP-supported technical asace program will provide the specfic skis required for
financial          and the technical aspects of ctin project acdvities. The objectives of this
techncal assistnce progm  are to: (a) Improve the coorinaton among the project compoents; (b)
assess achievements of the PNAS; and (c) ensure the overall niring of the social safety net
61.          i. Th oationa sustaInability of the project will be achieved by
rdying on a commuity-baWd                 involving: (a) prive enties (private co cors,
associatio, micro-entepreneurs; and others) with proven m _*anaeills; (b) NOOs and deen  lized
projects involved in deveopment acivities at the field level; (c) a more systeaic padction of the
most dec      d gove       (the        n   investment planing and monitoring; and (d) active
participaon of cmmuniti In project activies (aticulaly with regars to the identfication of target
groups). The centra governnt will contbute to financial sustinabity by provig adequate
recurrent funding as part of the core soci expendiu  pogrm   Sustied extenal support will be
necessay for arenb ad budgetary support trouh the social safety net of public expenditures.
Addltonl revenoues gena  by certain communa in_       (such as markets) wil cover part of the
reurr  cost iplicaon of the nw socia Inesme. Project sanabilitwill be reviewed for each
cmponn durig the midterm project impail    rview and rcmn o  will be made in



- 18-
ord  to Improve the susnability of the most effective and efficient actvites.
62.       LessoM   Leaed from Prei     DA  nolveme.  Most project in Rwanda fe
Implemention delas and procuemnt problems due to: (a) bureaucratic red tape hampeing effcdve
deision making; (b) weak m_aia capabilities In the public sector; and (c) Insufficient involvement
of decentalized gov I     , communites and beneficiaies in the  Imp      Ion process of
deeopmeat actvities. The propose operaion wll address theso issues   h: (a) liming the role
of the ceal administraion to overall supvion and guiddace; (b) ensuring an effective project
managemen  throug an autonomous stwcture staffed with motiatetd nationais who wi receive dhe
csary tWainig in pro uement, disbursent and acountg; and (c) invving private contactors,
NGOs, the commutes and association of benficiaries In the socil srvice delivery process. Compliance
with audit rqirm    is fuy satisfactoy In dhe social sectors.
63.       RaB;onle for IDA l 1yawmt. 'Me proposed opration Is an importa element in the
Bans satgy of assisance to Rwanda It will help alleviae poverty by supportig activities that are
an integra pat of the socW safety net (cluding essental programs in Health, Primary and Secondary
Educatin and Population) which has ben established wit the framework of the governmet adjustment
progm. This project would complement ongoing projects in Health (FY86, Education (FY91) and
Populaion (FY91). The Bans role is essental in isting the governumn in creating a conceptual and
o nal framework for poverty aleeviation and coordinatg atel inbtventions in collaboration with
UNDP.
64.        aed Actons. The following are conditions of credit efectiveness: (a) the approval by
IDA of the 199395 public expenditure program in social sectors; (b) the approva by IDA of the traiing
program for the LBWs; (C) the establismen of the  n 2            and the BCP and selecion
ad appointment of staff for all key positns of the BCP and the execut  units; (d) the establishmt
of a project account in a financial instiuon with the inidal deposk of the govement oon3trtion; (e)
the proposed acounting sysem has been found acceptable by IDA; and (f) all the standard biddng
documents have been found acceptable by IDA. Other       Include: (a) annual ppartion and
satoy Implemeio of the social sector public expde progam    sfactory to IDA; (b)
bmission of amnal work programs and budgets; (c) satitory activity reports; and (d) mid-trm
impln  roview.
65.       Envk enmalAs        -. Theproposed operationbelongs to category B. The environmental
impact should be positve through anti-erosion meu (ref taon,  iuurl terracin  carried out
as part of the LBWs component Poteni negative effects on the environment are minial and will be
prevented though a set of masures which have been Ideified durig project preparation, including: (a)
the pr vatio of top-soil, eisting natu  forts and diversiy of tree species; and (b) the establim
of a positve list of mic-enterprses with specific evironmental gdelines.
66.        !QM   baiIym The proposed operation is a core component of the county
poverty a evon stry.
67.        Ie    . The direct benefc       of the proposed oaon will be people in need of
pennw Xfood aid (a tot of 300,000 people over 4 years) and farme  in need of off-farm employment
to suvie (a total of 600,000 people over 4 years). In addion, the project would establislh a mechanism
to resd    rapidly to acute food _inty through early wanig and emergency food aid distibution.



- 19-
lhe project would also contribe to create mr-enterprises at the community level, promote off-farm
employment and strengthen the role of the commue as a local development agency. Communal
investments (implmented through LBWs) would generate local economic and social benefits. An indirect
benefit wil be local capacity bulding trough the traini  of small and medium enterprises. In the long
term, the project would conute to a better monitoring of the living stanards of the population, a better
understanding of the auses of poverty and overall improvemt In social policy development.
68.       RiWk. Ihe main risk is that impl        delays occur because of inefficient project
mangement. Iis risk has been addressed by: (a) establising an adequate management structure,
including sufficient autonomy from the a    n;  (b) training key project staff in project
management, procurement, disbusement and accouning prior to credit effectiveness; (c) establish   an
indicator-based monhoring system which will scan on a pem ent basis three areas of project
implementation, namely financing, inputs and field execion; and (d) involving beneficiaries in the
monitoring process.
69.                     . I am sadsfied that the proposed credit would comply with the articles of
Agreemet of the Assocation and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis Preston
President
Attachmen
WahDngon, D.C.
May 27, 1992



- 20 -
Schedul A
Page I of I
RWANDA
FOOD SECURITY AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
XLlTMAa  =QTS AN12 MINAK=IN
US$ million
percentge
MaSI]D&       COSTS                  Loc           Pre gnd                EoeignEcae
Food Aid and Nutrition                8.1           5.9         14.0            44
Labor Based Works                    13.4           4.4         17.8            34
Support to Micro     ses              2.7           0.6          3.3            24
Surveys                               0.8           0.6           1.4           71
Projet Management                     0.6           1.5          2.1            78
PPF                                   0.3           1.0          1.3            79
Total Base Costs               25.9         14.0          39.9           42
Physical CoIngences             1.8          0.7           2.5            36
Price Coencies                  2.7           1.0          3.6            34
Total Proje ctosts                   30.4          15.7         46.1            41
IDA                                  12.5           6.6         19.1            41
UNTP                                  1.0           2.1          3.1             7
WPP                                   8.9           7.0         15.9            34
Government                           *8.0           -            8.0            17
TOTAL                          30.4         15.7        *46.1
*Part of gvermnmentI's contrfibution vif Ii be cw.bythe Unif ied Counterprt Fund (pool of coneprt funds
duinistered by the Treasury) ad by the Unifd d Furd (maaed by the Nfnistry of Putio Vorks= for the
maintenance of cowxtl road.
Excluding US2.3 millton equlvalent for taxes and US0.70 million eswivalent for iqport duties.



_ 21 -
Schedul B
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FOOD SECURITY AND SOCLAL ACTION PROJECT
PROCURhTAND DISBURSEM-ENT
(U$ Million)
pROCIZAEITANGEMNEM
TOWd
_______________________   LOC3                       LC.          0lIw            N..F.            Cost
*-1.        1 nrsr
Cmiwiwl Reeds                                     2.6            0.7                            3.3
(2.0)         (0.7)                          13.3)
1.2 Reforestatio                                    0.4            1.5                            1.9
10.4)          (1.5)                         11.9)
1.3 8dl C     _nsan                                 1.0                                           2.5
(1.01         11.5)                          (2.51
1.4 WA r SUpply                                     0.1            0.1                            0.2
(0P.1         (0.1)                           (0.21
1.5 CammW  Inwruatnt                                0.4            0.1                            0.5
0.4)           10.1)                         10.5)
1.0 Urban Suwvos                                    0.2            0.4                            0.6
(0.2          (0.4)                          10.63
2. GOod
2.1 E4ulpwst&WNhs                        3.5                       0.1            0.2             3.6
and LIIW egipnwet                        (3.51                     (0.1)                          13.61
0.2
2.2 Me"ds. Cemt ppe. OIL                             1.0                                           1.8
2.3 Feed                                                                          15.0            15.0
3. c __oebarls
3.1 studtes                                                        0.4f                            0.4
(0.13                         (0.13
3.2 TechIca AuhI.wnoe                                                                              5.3
(2.1)                          12.1)
3.3 T   m                                                           1.1                            1.1
10.5)                          10.53
4. Mmouamenu
4.1 bInrenta Operat  Costs                                          1.0          6.4               0.4
fin. aLtrave AVwd w .I                                          (0.891                          (0.)
4.2 Mlero.entseprls ,tuds                                                         2.0              2.0
10.0)           10.0)
4.3 PF RPtn_wln                                                     1.3                            1.3
(1.8)                          11.31
TOTAL                        as          6os           l5             22.9            461
a                            P()      I16.)   -        193)           (00)           (19.1)
e1 Conult  ssvlae wl be proued In scewdmnos with dh pinapie d propedur  Pat ery to IDA an the bai of the 0udsle for the
Us. of C.widtant. dated Aurt 1982.
Note: Piure  in pa_tbwe am the  spe&tve anmort finaced by ft  crediL N.B.P.: Not Bak fiawed.



- 22 -
Page 2 of 2
RWANDA
FOOD SECURIUY AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
PRMeNTANDDI
(USS million)
1. ClYtI Works                        8.5                         100%
2. Equpm*nt, vehicles,                4.5                         100X of foreign exchange
taterieals and supplies                                           SO% of local costs
3. TechnicaL Assistance               1.5                         100X
4. Training and Studies               0.3                         tOOX of foreign exchange
S. Increnetal Operating
Costs (exctuding salaries and         0.9                         100%
travwt allowances)
6. PPF                                1.3                         100X of total eosts
7. Unallocated                        2.1                         N/A
Total           19.1
EIATBD IDA DISIBURSlrS
(US$ Mlion)
*                                 EX2~~~~~r9  EXC9A EI9S EI2Ers
Amna                     1.5     4.4      6.0     4.8     2.4
Cumulative               1.5     5.9     11.9   16.7   19.1



- 23 -
SchdulC
Page 1 of I
RWANDA
FOOD SECURIrY AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
iaA AMI KEYf PROQ3SSINGE
(a)   TMmtakentoprepar:                         12monas
(b)    Prepared by:                             Government with UNDP and IDA
assistamce*
(c)   IDA Identificaton:                        January 1991
(d)    Preo-praial mis                          Sepember 1991
(e)    Appraisal msion:                         December 1991
(t)    Negotiations:                            May 1992
(g)    Planned date of effetvess:               January 1993
(h)    List of relevant PCRs:                   na.
* 'he staff responsble for project preparation were: Dr. Jacques Baudouy (AF3PHE Pinipal
Publc Health Speciaist), Mr. Qaise Khan (AF3PH, Economist), Ms Eileen Murray (AF3PH, Fianaca
Analyst), Ms Gisale Dlaine (AFTSP, statisdcian), Mr. Kees T 1neburg (AFTSP, Economist) and
Mr. Marco Feroni (AFTSP, Enmist).



- 24 -
Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Rwanda
PFDBR25 - Su_mary Statemet of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 4/30/92 - MIS data as of 5M/26/92
Antwnt In US$ dIllon
lO  owwelalons
Loan or Credit No.      FIbe Yea                      slwer           Pwpoe                    sobk     IDA       Undbbu   Cloing date
rod
CrodIt                                                                                                    22.48
24 Crft(e) dosd
C12B30-RWA              19a3                         RWANDA           lUGEBEA I                           10.30      .2r   1231191 JRi
C15400-RWA              1083                         RWANDA          AGhR RESEARCH                        11.50     3.19   12/31191 (R1
C150.S04WA              19s                         RWANDA          TAS PUUIC SECTOR MG                  4.60      3.06  06/30192 (RW
C164104WA               106                         RWANOA          HWY8 VI                              11.00     1.01  03f31i92 (R1
C18500RWA              low                          RWANDA          BRD IV                                9.00     3.10  12V31/93
C16780-RWA              1980                         RWANDA          FAMILY HEALTH                        10.60     0.30  O0630192
CItO30-RWA              1906                         RWANDA           EDUCATION U                         15.00    10.92  12/31192 (II
C178304RWA              19B7                         RWANOA          WAYER SUP. n                         15.00     8.69   12131/94
C179800RWA              1987                         RWANDA          PUB. SfT. MGOi.                       7.40     6.86   12V31194
*181104RWA              1987?                        RWANDA          FORESTRY U                           14.10    10.26  O630/93
CA008141WA              1988                         RWANDA          HWYS. VI                             10.00    10.90  12/31192(R)
C20280-RWA              t9Si                         RWANDA          AG. SERviCES                        19.90     t8.84  00/3395
C204104WA              19S                         RWANDA          URBAN INST.                         32.00    32.48   12/31/98
0211304.WA              1990                         RWANDA          PUIUC OfT.                           4.40      4.31   12/31/94
C213800RWA              1090                         RWANDA          TRANS. SECT.                        40.00    41.70  06/30/97
C218900RWA              1601                         RWANDA           COMUNICATON U                       12.60    10.19   12/31/9
4C22270-RWA             1691                          RWANDA          EDUCATION SECT. CR.                 23.30    22.20  09/30/96
C22710RWA(S)            1901                         RWANDA           SAL I                               90.00    69.03  12/31/93
C022720AWA             1601                          RWANDA          POPULAMON                           19.80    10.87  0130198
Total nwmbar CredI         19                                                                            307.50   271.11
TotsI**                                                                         660.06
of wid repId                                                                    11.02
Toed held by BO* & IDA                                                          578.36
Amoant s
of ~h epid
Toed undsbweed                                                                            271.11
*       Not wt efftide
Not stsisd
Tota Approved Rwpmenten an Cu*    s bnod  rpee both v eand _Ireolve   and CrsdL
(N)      Misaim fod_ mealy rovid Clsn_ DOW
S       Indiete SAL/SECAL Loa  en Credits.
The Nt Approed ndW k Repsmnt am lihb_1, vaue. eU alrae market vdlus.
The S4gnig. Effsalv, a  Clsn da we based pp  th Loa Depa t offiI dataand rwe not tken fiom th Tak T udget
Tm grJ        ueus wI1 be b* t Imrove Ow duh  mwnt sl: firt. sral CdOoq bhmp ten Rbvlew MlO wIll Id1nI
aen_a        fr freIeot Inimenaso dWea  nd eend  eo  mi to toh gW t     flint CM wIM be aned out
In FY63); and,  md. a Coumfay Pmunw Asewsm   eport wI be preprd In FY63 bems p>_rontet _us ho  ben
Idfied a a mjo amue of low diburwseet rat



- 25 -
Page 2 of 2
STATUS Of  NK S RoA w OPERtATION IN WAWA
S. STATEMENT OF ZFC INVESTUMNTS IN RWANDA EXPRESSED N US$
(April 80, 1998)
Investment
Number            Year           Obligor           Type of Businese        Loan       Equity   Total
887-RW            1975       Sorwathb            Too processing              0.S3                 0.53
47040W            1979       Sorwatheand marketing                           0.23        0.08     0.29
784-RW            1980       Sorwathe                                        0.29                 0.29
102iiRi           198       Sorwal              Mnutacturlng                 _ ()   0.20         0.20
Total Gross Coawitments:                       1.05        0.26     1.31
Less: Cancellations, termination,
exchange adjustments, repa*mtes
write-ott., and sales                   1.06        0.08    1.21
Totea commituet hold by IFC                    0.90        0.20    0.20
Total undisbursed                              9.a0        0.00    0.00
Tot l dlsbused                                 0.90        0.20    0.20
(a)  Loan guarntee of US42.1 million provided by IFC.



-26-
RYIAIA - 00101C ICICA08S'Schedule E
mid-i99  Population jstillaut)    7.2
1990 Per CaDlta GI  WMU9:        Soo
A. Sume  of Gros Coast It ProdLct               B. Grofth Rates(% pe am.)
(from ourrent price data)                    (from watant orice data)
IM 1873   1980   1988   IW    1990             1985-73 1973-S  O 18-90  l988   IBM
Gross Domstlc Prod.jt D.P.      100.0  100.0C  100.0  100.0   1-00.0  100.0            5.6    8.5    1.2   -5.7 -.0-
Net indlrcet TUNe               4.0    .8.    7.       8.5    8.0    8.2              .      ..     2.0   -1.1  -10.8
*  Agriculture               ~~~~~~74.8   61.0   45.8   37.9   26.7   38.1           ..     8.7   -1.2  -11.8    5.4
ind.stry               8~~~~~~.9    8.?   21.5   21.8   2 2.8   22.2         *.     8.9    0.8   -1.1   -5.9
(.of    NarifactuInig)    2.1    4.1   15.3   14.1   14.7   14.8                8. .3    0.7   -2.4   -4.0
Services              ~~~~~18.4   30.2   22.6   40.3   40.5   39.7            .. 11.9    4.2   -3.0   -5.1
*   Rasource Balance                 -4.8   -1.8  -11.9   -9.2   -5.3   -6.7T.                     .    -1.5   -6.9  -40.8
Exxort  of GNFS                12.1   11.8   14.4    9.0    8.?    9.2               4.0    8.4    3.6   -7.2   39.9
IqU~ot orf GNFS              -18.9   13.4   20.4   18.2   18.0   17.9               3.2   10.8    1.3   -7.0   -9.3
Total Evbnditures               104.8  101.8  111.9  109.2  109.3  109.7              5.4    8.9    1.0   -5.8   -5.7
,116tal Coansntlon             95.0   92.4   95.8   90.8   92.7   98.2               5.3    8.7    1.0   -5.5    0.5
Prlvate Consutlam            80.9   61.0   83.3   79.1   79.4   77.8               5.7    7.    -0.1   -7.0   -3.1
OsiralI Goverrnnst           14.1   11.4   12.5   13.6   14.4   18.4              2.3    3.9    8.5    3.3   20.7
Gross omestic tnvestmant        9.8    9.4   18.1   15.7   15.8   12.5              4.7.    9.4    1.2   -7.4  -40.5
Fixed Investment ..                    . 12.2   15.1   16.0   13.7                 ..     2.7    5.7   -2.4  -34.2
Chanlges In Stodcs..'                        3.9    0.6   -0.3   -1.2.                      .      .       .
Gross Domstic Saying              5.0    7.8    4.2    6.4    8.3    3.8               .. 29.7    4.8   -8.3  -40.0
Met Factor Income              -.0.5    0.4    0.1   -0.6   -0.5   .0.7               .       .-16.7   40.8  -44.1
Net Qirrent Transfers           0.0   -0.4   -0.3    0.5    0.4    0.3               ..       .      .5  -24.6  -23.6
Grows National Savirg             4.4    7.5    4.0    6.3    6.2    3.4               ..       .     4.5   -7.9  -44.
In b III lemof LC.s             16     1973 198    1988   1W    1990
(at constant 1987 orIcess)                                      
Gross Domestic Prodot            61     92    142    173    163    160              5.6    6.5    1.2   -5.7   -2.0
Capacity to Import                6      a      13     16      14      14           4.0   10.6    0.6   -9.8   -2.9
termsof Trade AdJwt"mmn          1       1       1      2       2     43
Groswoametl InComIeF             62     93    143    175    185    157              5.5    6.8    0.9   -86.   -4.8
Gross National Prodiat           or     93    142   .172    182    159              5.8    6.5    1.1   -5.6   -2.2
Gross National Incm              61     94    143    174    164    156              5.5    6.8    0.9   -5.8   -5.0
-100)-  p----               Iflto            aa     .a.) -
C. Price lndlces                 1960   158    1966   1988   1W        1990         1965-73 1973-80 1980-90  1989   1990
Conseer Price  (IFS 64)          70.9O  57.1   96.   10.0  1-04.0  1084             .2.0  -15.7--   1.2    71.       4.2
tvioesale Prices (IFS 83)           .      .      ..      ..                                                   .
ImolIcit GOP Deflator           76.0  106.2   98.   109.2  107:i  1110:               8:0   16:2    1.1    3.8    3.2
iop Ileft EVws ltures 03f*1.    78.5  102.5   94.4  102.5  106.8  115.3               8.0   16.2    2.0    4.0    8.2
0. Other Indicators:           1965-73 1973-80 1980-90
growth RatesC(' P.&.):
Pw~itat Ion      .3.1    3.4    3.7
Laor Force                      2.8    3.2    2.8
Gros  Matt. In"o=  P.C.         2.3    3.3   -2.9
Private Can  urtion p.o.        2.5    3.6   -3.8
Import Elasticity:
import  (GWIS) / GO(RNO)       0.6    1.7    2.2
*Marlnal Savings Rates:
Gross  atIoali SavIn           13.3   -2.8   -1.0
Gross DometIC Savin            12.7   -2.4    0.9
1COt,Cerlod average): -.    13.1
;IV" of Total I955   1973   1980   1989   1890
.&bo  Forc  In:                                     
Ag,~iculture                  94.2   934 928A
Industry                       2.4    2.7    2.5       .
Services                        2.4    3.9    4.3
Total                         100.0  100.0  1100.0  100.0      M~



- 27 -
98WCA - E~oLIcIIC  tCATORS.                           Schedule E
PAGE 2 OF 3
Volue Inlex                         Value at wrment PrIm  (mfIt  law WUS)
E. Vrc   dse bvorts              198   198    1987   1988              1990   190   198$   19S7   1988   198g   t
X.BtV.COFF&t                     47.7   70.2  10O.0   73.9   61.6   98.7    a3          85     91      85    ,59      74
X.0AGO I.X                                                                      19       7      7       6      7       6
x.SEv.rIA                        76.2   99.3  100.0  109.4  140.7  140.7        12      15     13      16     21      25
X.O^G;=I.Y                      838.8  458.8  100.0   84.8   92.2   87.1         5       1      0       0       1      0
lwJfactures                        ..     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..              2      2       4      5       5
RasidLal                                                                                is ..    '  ..  ..  ..  10  16  8  7  12  13
Total Evorts FOtS..   83.5  WO.O    7.5   80.8  109.3    109    126    121    118    105    122
F. Mrchandils  Imprts
Food                             57.8  141.6  100.0   87.2   81.4   96.3        21      58     48      46     40      32
Fuel and ergy                    52.7   89.1  100.0  101.5   97.8   70.2        29     51      54     84      48      45
Oth. wwwrgoods                   89.8  110.3  100.0   98.4   72.7   49.0        79      70     75      80     58      47
Outer intermed goods             80.2  120.9  100.0  109.5  112.9  100.1        5s     51  59          65    103      97
Caottal goods                    59.9   67.4  100.0  103.0  10C.1  115.4        71     68    117    125       88      98
Total Imorts CIF                 86.7   97.5  100.0   99.9   93.9   83.3    235    298    354    370    334    318
G. trdcandise Terms of Trade    1980   1985   1917   1981   1989   1990
Nerch. EVorts Price Index          ..  151.3  100.0  116.9  103.8   83.4
iMarch. imports Price irdex     108.0  107.4  100.0  100.4  100.9  111.9
Merch. Terms of Trade              ..  140.8  100.0  116.4  102.7   74.5
U$ mlII oans (at currant prIces):
M. Balance of Paimts             1980   1985   1987   1988   1989   199O
Expors of Goods & fS              165    161    168    181    148    154
MerdIse (FOB)                   134    126    121    118    105   .109
NWt-Factor Servlces              32     35      48      44     43     45
lworts of Goods & WFS            319    336    418    421    379    868
Merchandise (FOB)               196    219    267    279    254    233
Non-Factor Services             123    117    151    142    .25    135
Resource Balas                   -154   -175   -251   -280   -231   -214
Nat Factor Income                  2      -6    -10    -14    -10    -14
(interest per OS)                5       4       7      9       8     10
Net Currmnt Transfrs              -3       4       7      11      8      7
(workers resittans)              1       1       2      1       1      1
Curr A/C Oal Befre Off. Grints  -155   -176   -253   -283   -233   -222
Net Official Transfers          107    112    119    139    128    123
Q rr A/C Bal After Off. rant      -48    -4    -134   -124   -105    -9
LqV-Tsnm Cap lta I Inflow          44     73    106      85      so     34
Direct Investnrt                 is     iS      la     21      is      8
4etLT Los (OaSdsta)              2S     5B      9:      S      *      2
Ot8r LT Inflow (Nt)               3      0       1       1     -1      0
Total Otnr Items (not)             33     -9       8      0       6      1
Net snort Term Capital          35   ..-8       11     -2       5     -2
Caita Filows N..I.                0      0       0       0      0      0
Errors and OnissIJ              -2      -1      -4      2       1      3
Changes In Nt Reserves            -29      0      18     39      38     58
Net Credit from Vt  IW           ..     .        0             ..      .
OUtr RJserves Changes           -        0      18     39      38     58
As Shre of GMP:
Resurce Balance                 -13    -10    -12    -11    -11    -10
InterestPayants                  0       0       0      0      0       a
Current Account Balance         -13    -10    -12    -11    -11    -10
Moranri  Items:
Reserveselc.Gold (nll.tS)    187    113    164    118            70     44
Rerves Incl- Gold (il. USS        18?    113    184    118       70     44
Official X4Rate lLCU VSS)       82.84 101.28  79.67  76.45  79.95  82.86
Index Real Eff. XI   a   90  100.0  146.84 133.82 134.4  132.42 120.96
GOP (millionsof arrent ll)    1183   1715   2159   2228   2178   2128
InC 11j9



- 28 -
RUAk  - E81OAIC INDICATORS                        *Scbedule E
PAGE 2 WF 3
suanof Z-                   '        '          Growth PAtes
Goverment FIra                  160   1986   198?   1988   1989   im           196886  1987   1988   198t   1990
Current Ri lots                12.4   13.8   13.5   13.1   13.8  12.4             9.8  -1.8    0.8    3.2  -3.1
Current E    Ittes              9.4   11.9   13.9   13.4   13.7   17.8           12.1   18.8  -0.5    D.4  29.7
current 13pt $lanos             3.0    2.0   -0.5   -0.3    0.1  -S.2             0.7  -24.6   38.1   3.8   2.0
Caoltal Receipt.
Ctal Endltures                  2.2    9.3    9.4    7:8    8:7    3.5            1:      :   -13.5    s2  -59:2
Overall Deficit                  ..   11.3   -8.9    7.8    8.8  -1.7            57.6   35.3  -14.7    3.3    2.4
Offlcial Capital Grants          ..    2.6    2.4    3.5    3.3    3.3           -1.7   -8.4   50.8  -8.3   -0.1
External 8orrowirg (nmt)      -0.3    3.5    4.6    2.8    2.4    1.5            83.1   30.0  45.8  -18.7  -36.1
Domestic mon-anrk BorrowIng     1.5    O.S    0.3    0.8    1.0    0.7          -10.2  -32.3  134.5   32.4  -28.9
Domestic lark FInavnirn        -2.1    0.7    2.6    0.8    1.5    3.2            7.3  260.3  -69.5   95.5  112.1
Not Oisbursemmnts (US mlII mons)    Debt Outstanding & Olsbursed (US: mII1oan)
J. Exteral Capital Flows, Debt
and Oebt Burden Ratios      1960   185   1987   1988   1899   19090   186    1985   1887   1988   1989   1990
Piubl ic &  blicly .r. LT        25     71     92     78    54       65   1SO    332    564    613    606    86t
Official Creditors             27     74     92      79     56     68    143    321    553    606    601    861
MUltl lateral                20     43      61     60    50    S8    91    232 . 391    436    462    590
of whic  I8   -             0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0
of Nhlch IDA               10     29      39     30    31    21       58    152    251    274  .302    340
Bi lateral                    7     30      32     19      6     10    52      89    162    169    1202 *7
Private Creditors              -2     -3      0      -3    -3    -4        8     12    11       7       5      5
SLupl lers                   -2     -2      -3    -2    -1    -2         8      9      4      2       1      1
Flnrinc2al irkets             0      0      0       0      0     ..      0     0       0       0      0      0
Private  &    8-granteed         0       0      0      0      0      0      0       a.  *a        0      0       0
TotaILT                          25     71     92     78    54      65    150    332    584    613    606    866
IMF Credit                       8     -2      -3     -3    -3       0     14     10       7      4      1      0
Not 9,ot-Term Capital           35      -6      9      3     -4    -2      26      27     39     42     45      45
TotA ilncl. If &Not ST           66     63     98     76    47    63    190    369    610    658    652    910
Bankad  IDA Ratios             198Q   1965   1987   1988  1989   1890
Share of Total L    r-Te o0
1. IBSO as S of Total         0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2. IDA as Z of Totl           38.86  45.70  44.53  44.68  49.83  39.28
3. IMBIDA as S of oWAl        38.88  45.70  44.53  44.6B  49.83  39.26
Swre of LT Det Service
1. 159 as S of Total          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2. IDA as X of Total         11.3  11.S  15.43  19.30  13.95  12.30
3. I1ROtIDA as X of Total     11.63  11.85  1S.43  19.30  13.5S  12.30
0O0-to-EVorts Ratios
1. Long-Trer DetAqdvDorts     81.90 193.83 313.83 348.59 372.56 548.86
2. IhF CredittJExDts           7.36   5.83   3.84   2.10   0.55   0.08
3. Siort-Teru CDeW1E,rts      14.17  15.74  21.70  23.60  27.35  28.22
4. LT+iJF+ST CtXiE,arts      103.42 215.41 339.36 374.29 400.47 M.15
ND-to-WP Ratlos
1. Long-re DeBtP             12.92  19.38  26.14  26.34  27.94  40.58
. IWU CredlWt/0P              1.16   0.58   0.32   0.16   0.04   0.00
. Shnort-TUoembtAGCP          2.24   1.57   1.81   1.78   2.05   2.08
I. LT+lW+ST CMO"GN           16.32  21.54  28.27  28.28  30.03  42.67
et Sevice  Vorts
p. bIlc & Gurantsed LT      2.34   7.87  10.48   9.72  13.22  15.98
'. Private  on-1uan-teaed LT  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Long-Term Debt Service  2.34   7.87  10.48   9.72  13.22  15.98
HF RePuochaes.Serv. 01gm.   0.05   0.99   1.56   1.B5   1.66   0.00
interest only on STDebt     1.80   1.57   1.34   1.59   2.95   1.59
Total (LTTIWF+Sr Int.)      4.20  10.44  13.35  12.9?  17.83  17.50



RWANDA                              UGANDA
FOOD SECURITY AND                                                TANZANIA
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
.-  <COU MBOUN 
tAmE ~ Mg*R OCKSMA
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lw
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U U                  D          lli;  l-  wcmd t 
~~~~~~~~A R                                     MOM.   /  0  5 10  tS 20 2X 30 -5 40 45



