Document: of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22317
IMPLEMENTATION COM/PLETION REPORT
(IDA-23880)
ONA
CREDrr
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 19.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A FOOD SECURITY AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
June 19, 2001
Human Development Unit, AFTH4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their ]
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  j



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = RwF (Rwanda Franc)
RwF 1 = US$ 0.0023211
US$ 1 = RwF430.8155000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AE          Agences d'Encadrement (Executing Agencies)           LBW         Labor-based Works
AGETIP      Agence d'Ex6cution de Travaux d' Int6ret Publique    MINITER   Ministere der rint6rieur (Interior Ministry)
AGR         Activitds Generatrices de Revenus                    MTR          Mid-tenn Review
BCP         Bureau de Coordination du PNAS                       NGO         Nongovernmental Organization
BE          Bureau des Etudes (Bureau for Studies)               PAM         Programmne Alimentaire Mondiale
BTOR        Back-to-office Report                                PAN         Programme Alimentaire et Nutritionnel
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                          PCD          Project Concept Document
CECI        Centre canadien d'dtude et de coopdration            PIU          Project Implementation Unit
CENA        Centres pour les Enfants Non Accompagpds             PME          Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
CEPEX       Bureau Central des Projets et du Financement Exterieur    PNAS    Programme National d'Action Sociale
DCA         Development Credit Agreement                         PSR         Project Status Report
DRC         Democratic Republic of the Congo                     QAE         Quality at Entry
FRW         Franc Rwandais (Rwandese Franc)                      RWASAP   Rwanda Social Action Project
FSU         F.onds Social d'Urgence (Emergency Social Fund)      SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
GC          G6nie Civil (Civil Works)                            SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
HIMO        Haute Intensitd de Main d'Oeuvres (see LBW)          SSC         Small Scale Contractor
ICR         Implementation Completion Review                     TA          Technical Advice
DP          InternaUy Displaced Person                           UNDP         United Nations' Development Program
[LO         International Labor Organization                     UNICEF    United Nations' Children Fund
WFP         World Food Program
Vice President:         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:          -Arvil Van Adams
Task Manager:    Markus Kostner



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOOD SECURITY AND SOCI]AL ACTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomne                                 18
6. Sustainability                                                                      19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     22
9. Partner Comments                                                                    23
10. Additional Information                                                             23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  36
Annex 8. PNAS/CRDP-PVK - (Cr. 2388-RW - Completion Report (Summarized version)         37
Annex 9. Beneficiary Survey Methodology and Results                                    47
Annex 10. Aide-Memoire - Food Security and Social Action Project (PNAS)                48
Annex 11. Aide-Memoire - Pilot Community development Project (PVK)                     50
Map No IBRD 25927R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P002261                                      Pro ect Name: RW - FOOD SECURITY
Team Leader: Markus Kostner                             TL Unit: AFTRS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RW - FOOD SECURITY                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-23880
CountryIDepartment: RWANDA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Assistance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/23/1990                            Effective: 08/05/1993         03/28/1995
Appraisal:  12/01/1991                              MTR: 09/30/1995            07/15/1997
Approval:  08/12/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1997          12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOVT OF RWANDA/BCP (PNAS); GOVT OF RWANDA/BC (PVK)
Other Partners: World Food Program (WFP/PAM), UNICEF
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                             Francisco Aquirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Allain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Markus Kostner                          Jacques Baudouy
ICR Primary Author:   Michelle Cullen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Since the late 1950s, Rwanda has been plagued by both -violent and non-violent conflict, marked by the
political manipulation of ethnicity to create tensions between Hutus and Tutsis and the consequent
instability, mass migration, and violence. Plummeting coffee prices in the 1980s caused a decline in
employment and income levels and GDP per capita, further aggravating tensions in this landlocked and
resource poor country. By 1990, Rwanda was one of the world's least developed countries, with an average



GNP per capita of US $310. Population density neared 280 people per km2, which was compounded by a
fertility rate of 8.5 children per woman, both the highest in Africa at the time. To make matters worse,
demographic growth neared 3.7% per year with needs surpassing the abilities of food production.
Consequent malnutrition rates were very high, plaguing some 37% of children under five with moderate to
severe under-nutrition. Food insecurity was a major concern, mainly due to a lack of purchasing power.
Meanwhile, the AIDS epidemic created numerous famnilies without income-earners. In October 1990, the
forces of the Rwanda Patriotic Front, a rebel movement composed mainly of exiled Tutsis, invaded
Rwanda from Uganda and occupied a large part of the north of the country. The ensuing civil war
disrupted economic and social activities and led to population displacements and a large military buildup
by the regime in Kigali.
The Government initiated a structural adjustment program during the late 1980s with the International
Monetary Fund and the World Bank that included a social safety net of public expenditures to address the
country's deteriorating economic situation. Per the Government's request, the Bank assisted with the
preparation of a social action program to meet the needs of the most impoverished. Although various social
sector operations were being supported by the Bank and other international agencies, new targeted social
interventions were also needed to respond to the basic needs of the poorest population groups, who had
suffered from ten years of economic deterioration and were unlikely to benefit rapidly from adjustment
measures.
The Programme National d'Action Sociale (PNAS) was conceived as a component of the Rwanda Social
Action Project (RWASAP) to help poorer groups cope with the strains of the structural adjustment
program. Project pre-evaluation began in October 1990, with a pre-appraisal mission in May of 1991. By
November 1991, PNAS had separated from RWASAP to become its own project, with the official
appraisal mission in December 1991. The PNAS objectives were to: a) improve the food security and social
welfare of the poorest population groups; b) improve the Government's capability to monitor living
standards of the population; and c) initiate a long-term poverty alleviation strategy. The Board approved
the Credit on June 17, 1992, and the Development Credit Agreement was signed two months later on
August 12th. The pre-effectiveness mission took place in September 1992, and about one year later, the
project became effective (August 5, 1993). Project preparation took place while civil war was going on in
the country. However, peace negotiations between the parties in the conflict (primarily the Government and
the RPF) were underway. These talks were supported by the international community. Despite the difficult
conditions, the Bank and the donors decided to continue with their programs as a demonstration of support
for the peace process.
After the project became effective in mid-1993, the civil war conditions delayed project launch and
implementation. The signing of a peace agreement (Arusha Accord) between the Government and the RPF
in August 1993 brought hope for the end of the war. However, the Arusha Accord was not implemented
and in April 1994, massive violence erupted and up to 800,000 people, mainly Tutsis but also moderate
Hutus from opposition parties, were killed. Fighting between the RPF and the Government army also
resumed. The violence also led to the internal displacement of one million people and the exodus of 2
million into neighboring countries. By mid-July 1994, the RPF achieved military victory, brought the
genocide to an end, and drove the soldiers and militia responsible for the genocide out of the country. A
new coalition Government of National Unity was formed and sworn in on July 19, 1994. Rwanda's
economy, which had already declined during the war, plunged and real GDP fell by 50 percent. During the
genocide, some project staff were evacuated, some were killed while others fled the country. Project
property was stolen, and project offices (including files) and works were destroyed.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
After July 1994, the international community launched a major effort to reconstruct Rwanda and in that
context, the Bank pledged to provide emergency new resources and the to restructure its existing portfolio
to support the reconstruction effort. It was in this context that the project was the project was re-assessed in
late 1994/early 1995 according to the country's post-genocide needs: emergency assistance with food and
social services; reconstruction and rehabilitation of the destroyed infrastructure; immediate poverty relief;
identification of the increased beneficiary groups; and capacity building to compensate for absent or
poor-performing national partners, such as non-goverrunental organizations (NGOs) and small- and
medium- sized enterprises (PME). Accordingly, the Bank responded in this second phase of the project to
alter project objectives and components. The project was revised on March 28, 1995 to focus on
improving: a) food security by redistributing food to nutrition centers and centers for unaccompanied
children; and b) social welfare by undertaking community-selected infrastructure projects built by local
small and medium-sized enterprises. New PNAS objectives sought to: a) support the recovery of
community activities by rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure; b) promote small-scale
productive activities; c) create temporary and permanent ernployment; and d) improve the nutrition of poor
and war-affected groups. Project activities recommenced on July 1, 1995. During this initial period
following the genocide, Bank and project staff faced extremely difficult in-country conditions.
During the period following the genocide (1995-97), the conditions in the country were very difficult. The
top govemrnent officials were new to their jobs, some new to the country, and inexperienced in public
administration as well as with donor procedures. They were also very distrustful of international donors
and NGOs. Dialogue with the Government was difficult. Security in the country was very fragile, and the
congregation of the soldiers and militiamen who perpetrated the genocide in the refugee camps in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, near the Rwandan border, remained a serious security threat. In 1997,
these forces made many violent incursions into Rwanda and perpetrated more deadly violence. These
difficult security conditions discouraged travel outside Kigali. The Bank and other intemational agencies
struggled to find the appropriate strategy for such a fluid situation, and to mobilize the human and financial
resources needed to respond to the challenges in Rwanda. The genocide had tom apart the social fabric and
destroyed community solidarity, creating a difficult environment for projects such as PNAS. The Bank's
local office was reopened in 1995 but was run by local staff until mid- 1996 when a representative from
headquarters was appointed.
By 1998, most of the refugees had returned to their communities, security conditions and public
administration, while still fragile, had improved, and govenmment had engaged the Bank and the
international community in constructive dialogue. A refomi program supported by the Bank and the IMF
was launched in 1997. The Bank responded to the country's changing situation and need and per the
Government's request, on April 16,1998, a third phase of PNAS was launched with the creation of
Category 8 to carry out community sub-projects and local capacity building initiatives by a Project
Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) in the Ministry of Local Govenument (MINALOC), using a
new participation and decentralization approach. Category 8 was extended until December 31, 1999 and
then December 31, 2000, while the other categories were closed on December 31, 1998. The remaining
proceeds from phase II (categories 1-7) were transferred to Category 8, which served as a pilot for the
Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP) (RW-PE-51931, effective as of March 31,
1999). These phase III pilot activities took place in 4 rural communes up until CRDP effectiveness and in 6
sectors of Kigali city (Prefecture de Kigali Ville-PVK) thereafter, implemented by a coordination office
within PVK. The objectives of phase III were to: a) assist r eturnees and other vulnerable groups through a
process of community-based reintegration and development; and b) strengthen the capacity of local
communities and the administration at the communal and national levels for the implementation of
development projects.
-3-



3.3 Original Components:
The pre-genocide PNAS design included four components: a) food aid and nutrition (Programme
Alimentaire et Nutritionnel - PAN); b) labor-based works (LBW); c) micro-enterprise promotion and
development; and d) social surveys and studies. (The latter two components were designated under the
Programme d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base (PAIB) and Enquetes Sociales.)
3.4 Revised Components:
In 1995, for phase II, project components were revised to include: a) food security and nutrition; b)
labor-intensive works focusing on rebuilding infrastructure; and c) micro-credit activities. The food
distribution and nutrition services of the original PNAS project were retained through PAN. To address the
new socio-economic conditions of post-genocide Rwanda, an emergency social fand (Fonds Social
d'Urgence - FSU) was established for community-based social and economic infrastructure sub-projects.
The FSU included civil works (Genie Civil - GC), which focused on high labor and income generating
activities (respectively, Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvres - HIMO and Activites Generatrices de Revenus
- AGR). The HIMO (formerly LBW) through community-based work was geared to increase purchasing
power (and food security). The AGR component (formerly micro-enterprise promotion and development)
had a rural area focus in which it was to identify potential entrepreneurs and facilitate the creation of
microenterprises by appraising their viability and providing financing for entrepreneurial endeavors. This
component was designed only to assist entrepreneurs in obtaining financing from existing financial
institutions. Training and studies were conducted across each of these components (PAN, HIMO, AGR) to
improve implementation and gather knowledge for future related work.
Before the genocide, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) envisaged to cost share technical
assistance to be provided through the International Labor Organization (ILO) for the labor-based works
component (HIMO). However, the planned contribution of roughly $3.1 million was never realized. After
the genocide, the revised project of 1995 had increased linkages with local development actors while
pursuing its endeavors, mainly due to the increased practice of collaboration, the increase of agency
involvement in Rwanda, and a lack of Government capacity immediately following the genocide. Local
NGOs (DUTERIMBERE, ATEDEC and other executing agencies) assisted with AGR and the Canadian
Centre for International Studies and Cooperation (CECI) facilitated some of the FSU sub-projects.
Collaboration in PAN activities (which also occurred before the genocide) included links with the World
Food Program (WFP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and CARITAS. The WFP provided
funding before the genocide, and continued to after fighting ceased, when the need for these services
increased. In all, the WFP provided a total grant of US $15.9 million for food security and nutritional
activities (including the food itself, logistics, and the delivery of food and services). However, this US
$15.9 million was not used specifically for the PANIPNAS, but rather for general emergencies related to
the war. UNICEF supported the nutrition component, provided technical supervision, and provided
micro-nutrients. CARITAS assisted with those families affected by AIDS and orphans, and the United
Nations Volunteers (UNV) helped manage and coordinate PAN activities through the Ministry of Health
and UNDP/UNV.
As the project progressed, PNAS continued to evolve. Project adaptation in 1998 added an eighth category,
comprised of two main components: a) community initiatives in each of the participating
communes/sectors; and b) institution and capacity at the central and local levels. This adaptation attempted
to build horizontal social capital within and between communities through increased participation and
- 4 -



vertical social capital between the Government and communities through decentralization. Improved
conditions in the country, including capacity at central and local levels, permitted this community-focused
approach to be adopted. The Category 8 design also benefited from increased Bank knowledge and focus
on participation, social funds, and post-conflict reconstruction.
The key focus of phase III was to listen to the communities themselves as they described their needs, and to
give the people what they decided they needed while also attempting to improve the quality of work. One
hundred thousand U.S. dollars were allotted to each of the 6 sectors in PVK for development purposes, that
they themselves chose and prioritized. An elected community development committee (CDC), the entry
point of phase III to local development, engaged the community members in development processes and
served as a liaison with central government. Phase III served in particular as a test site for participation and
decentralization in an urban environment.
Phase I                       Phase 11                       Phase III
Effective     8/5/93                         3/28/95                        4/16/98
Objectives    a) improve the food security and a) support the recovery of  a) assist returnees and other
social welfare of the poorest  community activities by     vulnerable groups through a
population groups;            rehabilitating social and    process of community-based
b) improve the Government's       economic infrastructure;     reintegration and development;
capability to monitor living   b) promote public participation,    and b) strengthen the capacity
standards of the population;  primarily considered as      of local communities and the
and                           beneficiary contributions in  administration at the communal
c) initiate a long-term poverty   cash or kind, in small-scale  and national levels for the
alleviation strategy.         productive activities;       implementation of development
c) create temporary and         projects.
permanent employment; and
d) improve the nutrition of
elatively poor and vulnerable
groups.
Components  a) food aid and nutrition (PAN); a) provide food security through  a) community initiatives in each
b) labor-based works (LBW);       PAN; and                     of the participating sectors; and
c) micro-enterprise promotion    b) an emnergency social fund  b) institution and capacity
and development; and           (FSU) to finance             building at the central and local
d) social surveys and studies.    comrnunity-based social and  levels.
economic infrastructure
sub-projects. The FSU
included civil works (GC),
which focused on high labor
and income generating
activities (HIMO and AGR).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The standards for assessing Quality at Entry (QAE) did not exist when the PNAS project was conceived,
technically therefore, the assessment of QAE for this project is not applicable. An attempt was made
however, to use today's guidelines based on the latest QAG Quality at Entry Assessment Questionnaire and
make an assessment as to what the QAE may have been if today's standards had been applicable in 1991.
- 5-



Based on this exercise, the project would have most likely been rated satisfactory for the following QAE
components: concept, objectives, and approach; poverty and social aspects; and policy and institutional
aspects. Considering the deteriorating country conditions at the project's inception, PNAS may have been
rated marginally satisfactory for fiduciary aspects, implementation arrangements, and risk assessment and
management. There is not enough existing documentation on the project from 1991 to evaluate the
technical, financial, and economic aspects. Environmental aspects are not applicable, as the project was
rated Category C. In terms of development objectives, the project may have been rated either high or
moderate. Overall therefore, it is estimated that the project's QAE would have been rated "S" for
satisfactory at that time if today's guidelines had existed.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objectives of the PNAS project included initiatives geared toward poverty reduction and
alleviation through the generation of employment; training and capacity building; improving food security
through the distribution of food and improving nutrition education and intake; reaching the most vulnerable
groups (including women, AIDS victims, and children); and the rehabilitation of infrastructure to help
communities return to some sense of normalcy in terms of daily functions. Despite the complexities
associated with project implementation in a conflict-affected country, the overall national impact of PNAS
was diverse and widespread, as detailed below.
Technical audits of the project were periodically conducted by independent external actors to monitor the
progress and outcomes, while the PNAS Coordination Office (Bureau de Coordination du PNAS - BCP)
also kept concurrent records and met regularly to discuss progress. Mid-term reviews were conducted in
April 1997 to review technical matters and in July 1997 to review financial matters. A final technical audit
was done in August of 1998. Once categories 1-7 of PNAS closed on December 31, 1998, a final financial
audit was completed and the Goverrment's Bureau Central des Projets et du Financement Exterieur
(CEPEX) conducted an inventory review. To enrich and boost these findings, and add the perceptions of
those for whom the work was geared, a beneficiary assessment of phase II was implemented in the autumn
of 1999. A final evaluation of phase III implementation was completed in December 2000, this included an
accompanying beneficiary assessment. The final financial audit was completed March 2001. The
Government also completed an independent analysis of the PNAS project, the "Rapport d'Achevement du
Projet Programme National d'Actions Sociales (PNAS)," which was prepared by CEPEX (see Annex 8).
When evaluating PNAS project outcomes, it is difficult to separate the effects of the conflict from project
impact. Despite the difficulties incurred during project implementation, the overall evaluation for the PNAS
project was satisfactory for various reasons. PNAS activities had widespread effects that benefited many in
need, in terms of providing or improving water, food, health, education, income, and training. The project
adequately addressed many immediate and short-term needs in a difficult environment. Some design
improvements were made, benefiting from increased Bank knowledge and experience - such as improved
structure of social funds, an increased emphasis placed on beneficiary participation, qualitative monitoring
and evaluation, and further refinement in the Bank's frarnework and tools for conflict-affected countries.
However, this was late in the life of the project.
- 6 -



Phase I objectives
Early during project development, indicators were chosen to monitor and evaluate performance of the
infrastructure sub-projects. These indicators included: the number completed, the number under
construction, and the number processed for financing. Performance indicators for PAN were the tons of
food distributed and the number of beneficiaries. No indicators were originally established to specifically
address micro-credit enterprise promotion efforts in terms of number of credits allocated or the rate of
repayment because of the uncertainty linked to the capacity of the executing agencies (agence d'
encadrement-AE). In the short period between credit effectiveness and the onset of genocide:
*   The food security and social welfare of Rwandans were certainly improved by PNAS efforts.
*   Through the various training provided for the BCP / Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the
Government's capability to monitor living standards of the population improved.
*   The PNAS project did not initiate a long-term poverty alleviation strategy.
The genocide rendered the full achievement of phase I objectives unattainable.
Phase II objectives
After the 1995 revisions, key performance indicators changed to: i) the number of FSU financed
sub-projects completed; ii) the number of beneficiaries for each sub-project - infrastructure, water supply,
health centers, and micro-credit projects; iii) the increase in revenue originating from micro-projects
financed by credit; iv) the person/years of work created by small and medium enterprises; and v) the metric
tons of food distributed. Estimates of beneficiaries were rough, for it was difficult to accurately assess the
numbers of those reached for some of the sub-projects conducted, such as roads and markets. In terms of
meeting its set objectives:
-   The project did provide overall support for the recoveiy of community activities by rehabilitating social
and economic infrastructure.
m   Small-scale productive activities in the form of micro-credit projects were supported.
*   Both temporary and permanent employment were created.
-   The nutrition of the general population was temporarily improved.
The PNAS project had an impact in rural areas in terms of improved infrastructure (markets, roads, water
sources, schools, health centers), poverty alleviation, and improvements in health due to nutrition training
and food delivery. The revised PNAS focused mainly on the immediate needs of the population, and thus
the sustainability of the improvements due to PNAS would depend on other follow-on actions by the
Government.
The progress of PNAS was captured to some extent by the indicators selected to monitor performance,
while regular monitoring of existing indicators did permit PNAS to fine-tune interventions. As an operation
targeting emergency needs, the focus was on output. However, it would have been useful if the indicators
had also looked at impact, such as the quality of works completed, a disaggregation of data in terms of type
of beneficiary reached (such as by gender, age, etc.), level of participant involvement, potential for
sustainability, and whether the sub-projects matched and mnet targeted community needs.
Phase III objectives
The objectives of this phase focused on community-based development and local involvement in project
planning and execution. Whether or not these objectives were reached was to be evaluated by examining
- 7 -



levels of a) decentralization, i.e. the transfer of decision-making and expenditure authority from the central
to the community level; b) participation, i.e. a partnership between the local administration and the local
population around sectoral planning and project implementation; c) social capital, i.e. trust and cooperation
within and between local government and the local population. Based on its objectives, phase III:
*   strengthened the capacities of CDCs as the focal point of project implementation;
*   helped build local infrastructure as identified by the community; and
*   helped bridge the gap between the administration and the population that had existed as a result of a
tradition of a centralized government structure.
The achievement of the objectives of this project can be rated as "U" for phase I and as "S" for phases II
and III. Overall, project outcome is rated as "S".
4.2 Outputs by components:
Infrastructure Sub-projects
The main objective of the FSU was to address poverty reduction and alleviation by rehabilitating
infrastructure, generating employment, and building capacity through training. The indicators to monitor
this activity were the number of infrastructure sub-projects completed - including infrastructure, water
supply, health centers, and micro-projects - and the respective amount of beneficiaries. These indicators
captured tangible improvements to infrastructure and rough numbers of those reached. By using local
contractors and workers, the GC/HIMO aimed to rebuild local implementation capacity.
hnfrastructure sub-projects consisted of nine different activities: rehabilitation and extension of schools;
furnishing the schools; rehabilitation of health centers; rehabilitation of centers for non-accompanied
children (CENA); spring development; rural water supply and sanitation; reforestation; rehabilitation of
roads; and construction of markets. Local participation was also encouraged, but for the most part, this
meant beneficiary contributions in cash or kind and involvement in AGR and HIMO activities.
No data were available regarding performance before the project halted in 1994, i.e. for phase I. When
project activities recommenced in the field in September 1995, the project was off to a good start. By
October, one sub-project already had been completed, four more were underway, and 15 were about to
begin. Achievement in 1996 and 1997 was rapid, which reflected an improvement in management and
capacity at the local level. Training and capacity building were carried out at the local level, most likely
contributing to this improvement.
According to final reports, 393 sub-projects were completed during PNAS phase II, and over 75 percent of
funds in this category were spent in the education sector. These sub-projects created roughly 33,000
temporary jobs and totaled some 2.5 million working days. The infrastructure works injected about $US
6,000,000 (RWf 1,875,000,000) into rural areas in terms of pay to contractors and laborers. Estimates of
sub-projects completed, which reached an estimated 1,513,000 beneficiaries, are as follows:
During site inspections, the audit missions observed that basic working conditions were in compliance to
standards, such as finding no children on construction sites and having an increased participation of women
(sometimes up to one-third of the labor force), who were paid the same salary as men. This access to the
workforce for women was crucial, for in some rural areas females have been estimated to comprise up to
two-thirds of the population, and as much as 50 percent of the households were headed by women in some
communes.
-8 -



Category of works             Numbers          Estimated         Amounts            %
completed      beneficiaries   disbursed (FRw)
Rehabilitation and extension     159            199,000        2.,339,121,589       62.5
of school centers
Furniture for school centers     113            174,000         467,867,774         12.5
Rehabilitation and furnished      5               NA             43,435,693         1.2
school centers
Rehabilitation of health          15            180,000          78,821,247         2.1
centers
Rehabilitation of centers for     5              4,900           66,480,199         1.8
non-accompanied children
(CENA)                                       _
Spring development          44 (750 sources)    141,000         110,429,627         2.9
Rural water supply and            16             70,000         336,258,627         9.0
sanitation
Reforestation and                 26            183,500         133,499,845         3.6
environmental protection
Rehabilitation of rural roads     4             190,000          98,049,216         2.6
Construction of village           4             370,700          60,827,876         1.6
markets
Other                             2               NA             6,330,520          0.2
Total                            393           1,513,000       3,741,122,213       100.0
Source: CEPEX final report.
The CDC structure employed in phase III supported the process of decentralization, while also addressing
urban poverty. The mechanisms that linked the CDCs to local administrations were designed to help
facilitate the mobilization and engagement of the population in project activities. Responsibilities were
passed on to CDCs and the communities themselves, in an attempt to increase feelings of ownership,
improve participation, and help ensure that communities' priorities were met. Participatory research
methods (Participatory Rural Appraisals-PRA), awareness-raising, and training were conducted to help
ensure beneficiary understanding and participation in project development and implementation. In this
sense, the process affiliated with implementation of phase III was as important as the output.
The socio-economic infrastructure sub-projects completed during phase III, similar to those undertaken
during phase II, were well-needed in the PVK area, which not only was largely damaged by the genocide
and consequent displacement but also experienced massive in-migration. Community development plans for
the 6 sectors were developed and realized with the involvement of the communities, CDCs, and local
administration. In these projects, recurrent costs were provided by the community itself.
-9-



Sector         Sub-project
Nyakabanda         Rehabilitation of school center
Kimisagara         Built a maternal school
Rehabilitated a primary school
Gatenga            Constructed and extended a primary school
Kimisange
Kagugu             Built a "salle polyvalente"
Gisozi             Extended a school center
Source: CEPEX final report.
Phase III was a small-scale activity that piloted new processes related to the CRDP. Therefore, the manual
of procedures for the CRDP was used, causing some implementation problems as urban and rural
communes are quite different, and the procedures manual was designed for work in rural areas. Other
problems encountered include: a) the procedures for processing the sub-projects moved slowly; b) the
demands for non-objections, which were initially designed for a larger project, slowed down the progress of
the project; and c) the funds set aside for each sector (US$ 100,000) were not adequate to meet the
community prioritized needs, especially in water supply. (In Kimisange, water supply was the first priority
but when this sub-project could not be realized because of financial constraints, the community could not
agree in time on another priority before project completion.)
Had all provisions of the CRDP manual been applied, far greater and time-consuming investements would
have had to be undertaken. Other organization problems were incurred in the CDC, such as the fact that
CDC members had other functions outside of the CDC role, which restricted the time they had for the
project. Overall, however, the quality of works and community ownership were considered higher than
under phase II.
Infrastructure sub-projects can be rated as "S" for phases II and III.
Micro-Credit Activities
The AGR's objectives focused on employment generation and capacity building through training. Eight
various training sessions were held in regard to AGR. To measure this performance, the increase in revenue
originating from micro-projects financed by the credit were to be examined, as were the numbers of
beneficiaries reached and number of micro-projects created. Under phase II, there were 3 different types of
micro-credit projects:
*   Type A - A medium-sized credit with a maximum amount of 2,000,000 FRW per project, granted by
PNAS and managed by an executing agency (AE).
*  Type B - A small-sized credit with a maximum amount of 500,000 FRW put into place by the Union
des Banques populaires du Rwanda (UBPR).
*   Type C - A small-sized credit with a maximum amount of 300,000 FRW put into place by PNAS in
collaboration with the Ministere du Genre, de la Famille et des Affaires Sociales (MIGEFASO) and
- 10 -



managed by a consortium of associations and groups; this took place in four neighboring communes of
Kigali (Kanombe, Rubungo, Rutongo, and Kanzenze).
Feedback on each of the three micro-credit components revealed that most were largely unsuccessful for
various reasons in terms of sustained micro-credit projects, rates of repayment, failure rates, and quality.
The first type of the micro-credit projects involved contracting local NGOs to manage and oversee the
sub-projects and lending (Type A). This type was quite unsuccessful, with initial poor repayment levels.
Type A also experienced problems due to the weakness of the NGOs used to support these activities. The
component was then restructured a second time in an attempt to improve recovery. The second type utilized
a Bank (the UBPR) to manage affairs (Type B). When this scheme failed, due to a UBPR change in policy
that decided against continuing with micro-credit projects, a third type was tested. This type C used a
consortium of associations and groups to manage the lending process. Consortiums of local commune
members oversaw type C, and included respected NGO or local administration representatives from the
commune of the debtor. Although this third type met with partial success, the impending project closure
(categories 1-7) cut this experiment short.
Types of micro-credit    Numbers        Amounts disbursed   Percentage of loans repaid
activity                  Completed     (FRw)
Type A                   27             51,486,070           12%
Type B                    136           60,000,000           100%
(These funds were fully
recuperated as they were
repaid by the UBPR, not
necessarily the debtor.)
Type C                   48             13,762,500           47%
Total                    211            125,248,570          58%
Source: CEPEX final report.
Certain levels of economic success were achieved by AGR promoters, mainly in the areas of handicraft and
brick-making. For the most part, none of the AGR was considered very effective, as many loan repayments
were not made and many sub-projects failed (this is not aLtypical, as many new enterprises often fail, and
conditions were compounded by a post-conflict environment). Of the 211 micro-credit projects financed
under phase II, 22 resulted in litigation, mainly due to failure to repay. These failures, in terms of projects
and repayments, were partially due to the challenges affiliated with attempting to jump-start micro-credit
projects in highly impoverished conflict-stricken environments where purchasing power is severely limited.
Low levels of group cohesion, weak supervision from overseeing bodies and Govenmment counterparts, and
a lack of adequate training to both those managing and borrowing funds also complicated the
implementation of AGR.
Under phase III, the population in one sector (Nyakabanda) identified a fund for AGR as one of its
priorities. There was not adequate time devoted to fully develop this component, while slow local bank
transfers also hindered progress. By the time PNAS closed, only 10 out of 20 planned AGR had been
started, too few to judge success or failure of this community-driven approach to micro-credit.
- 11 -



The micro-credit component can be rated "U" for phases II and III.
Food Security and Nutrition Program
The objective of PAN was to ameliorate food security by distributing food, and improving nutrition
education and intake (primarily aimed at the most vulnerable groups - children, AIDS victims, and
widows). This was to be done by providing nutritional activities at each level of service; nutrition
education; supplementation of vitamin A, iron, and iodine; and training and supervision at each level of
nutritional service. The indicator chosen to assess this was metric tons of food distributed.
Before the genocide, PNAS paid for the transportation costs and storage of food, while also assisting with
the processing of contracts for private transport. WFP was responsible for buying the food and distributing
it to the nutritional centers. After the genocide, PNAS paid for half of the costs of storage and
transportation.
The food security component of PNAS enabled the delivery of food to 80 nutritional clinics and 40 centers
for non-accompanied children in all prefectures of the country, and attempted to target the most vulnerable
groups. Training on nutritional activities was provided to 540 staff in these centers. Roughly 8,465 tons of
food were distributed, improving (at least temporarily) food security among vulnerable groups. A total of
128,300 benefited from PAN activities.
Summary of targeted PAN Services               Estimated beneficiaries
Nutritional services                                                  81,000 people
Services provided for families affected by AIDS                     6,4000 families
Services for children of families affected by AIDS                   2,500 children
Nutritional services for under fives in orphanages          2,330 children under five
Rations for over fives in orphanages                         7,660 children over five
Source: Trimester Execution Report PNAS/BCP Jan I - March 1997.
The food security and nutrition component can be rated as "S".
Training and Capacity Building
Some training was provided before the genocide, mainly in project management, procedures for tender,
training of surveyors, and training of those involved with the implementation and supervision of PNAS. A
more concerted effort was undertaken during phase II, where 943 people benefited from PNAS training (of
which 301 were from AE and PME). Various shortcomings in project implementation, especially those
related to quality of work, sub-contractor mis-management, and poor repayment rates on micro-credit
activities, spurred the development of training programs after the genocide. After the technical audit of
1996, it was decided that training programs were needed for small-scale contractors and consulting
engineers to help correct building, planning and design problems noted in monitoring reports.
For engineers of small local consulting offices, the following training was provided: labor-based road
- 12 -



technology (making inventories of rural roads and small structures, design and supervision of road works);
building techniques (design in function of locally available materials and supervision of works); rural water
supplies and sanitation (design and supervision); and enterprise management (preparation of bids,
computation of unit prices and engineers estimate, financial and personnel management). For small-scale
contractors (SSC), training was provided on: road construction techniques (practical and theoretical
training of supervisory staff); building techniques (in particular wooden roof structures); and enterprise
management (training of contractors in preparation of bids, computation of unit prices, financial,
equipment and personnel management).
These training programs were implemented by local and international consultants, and an expert from the
ILO/UNDP project "entreprendre a Madagascar" for training enterprise management. Most of the training
activities were classroom based. Though noteworthy, these efforts came too late in phase II to have a
substantial impact on the quality of works.
People Trained                    1995    1996    1997    Total
PNAS bodies                       12      4        5       16
Bureau d'6tude (BE)               0        0       24      0
PME                               0        0       78      21
AE/GC                             0        0       4       4
AE/AGR                            0        120     156     276
Assistants for AIDS               0        20      20      40
Agents CENA                       70       72      120     262
Nutritional Service Agents        35       43      160     238
Total Numbers Trained             117      189     567     943
Source: Figure 1 of the Execution Report PNAS/BCP January 1 - 31, 1997.
Phase III tested a new approach to development in Rwanda, requiring intensive upfront capacity building.
To ensure that CDCs function properly, it is crucial to provide adequate training not only to improve
capacity but also to motivate. When CDCs are able to communicate well with the beneficiaries, the
activities of the project are far more likely to succeed.
At start-up of phase III, training has been provided to all CDCs. Two training sessions were organized for
the 88 CDC members, including for participatory rural appraisals, organizational, project and financial
management, and environmental awareness. In addition, 177 beneficiaries of AGR received basic training
in micro-credit management. The fact that the CDCs were able to achieve their objectives to the satisfaction
of beneficiaries reflects well on the capacity building component and overall design.
The training component can be rated as "U" for phase 11 and as "S" for phase III.
- 13 -



Studies
Forty-three various studies were completed under phase II. Most of these were technical works to guide
sub-projects on bridges, roads, markets, schools, water pipelines and sources, and a veterinary clinic. These
studies were conducted by engineers (affiliated with the AEs and bureau d'etude - BE) and used to inform
sub-project design. Studies undertaken after the completion of sub-projects found various problems with
implementation, such as:
*   Building construction: not all contractors designed blueprints or building plans before construction, or
provided required technical specifications. Some buildings lacked proper anchoring for the roofs and
were plagued by mis-measurements;
*   Water sources and piping: some contractors used the wrong pipe dimensions, not adequately gauging
source levels and population needs, and lacked the technical expertise to adequately address the
required filtration layers around wells;
*   Tracks (dirt roads): a number of contractors did not pre-plan construction, nor did they consider
anticipated traffic volume, road usage or requirements according to level and weight of traffic, and the
cost of transportation by vehicle.
Type of Study                Number of studies    Communes investigated
conducted
Tracks (dirt roads)          11                   Gikongoro, Gitarama, Kibungo, Byumba
Bridges                      2                    Gitarama, Kigali-rural
Markets                      4                    Gikongoro, Byumba, Kigali-rural, Gitarama
Schools                      16                   Kibungo, Kigali-rural, PVK
Water sources and piping     7                    Gikongoro, Byumba, Kigali-rural
Veterinary Clinic            I                    Kibungo
Phase III envisaged the carrying out of selected studies to further the understanding of community
development issues in an urban context. Delays occurred at the PVK and its Bureau de Coordination (BC)
in identifying such studies, and in preparing terms of reference and bidding documents. By the time the
documentation was ready, pending project closing inhibited the carrying out of the studies.
The studies component can be rated as "S" for phase II and as "U" for phase III.
Achievement from the beneficiaries' perspectives
Beneficiary assessments (BAs) were carried out for phases II and III. (BA methods are explained in Annex
9.) For phase II, the BA was undertaken during September - December 1999 to supplement the final
technical audit of August 1998 and the initial findings from the CEPEX inventory conducted in January
1999. This process involved interviewing those who provided (contractors, local administration, former
PNAS staff, etc.) and received (such as beneficiaries, nutrition center staff, NGOs and cooperatives)
services from the FSU and PAN components at a limited sample of project sites.
- 14 -



Overall, the beneficiaries interviewed throughout this small cross-section of project activity sites
appreciated PNAS' efforts under phase II and made it clear that they would like additional work of the
same nature to be undertaken within their commune. However, various issues emerged within the areas
assessed that should be revisited to help improve future design and implementation of similar Bank
projects.
Infrastructure Sub-projects
In the areas where the BA was conducted, problems with the quality of infrastructure sub-projects were
apparent, especially in education. Schools were found to have experienced various faults: leaking roofs,
splintering or warped floors, uneven door and window jams that prevented proper closure, construction
techniques that prevented or hindered ventilation, rapid erosion of bricks due to improper fabrication, and
blackboards on which chalk could not be used. In some situations, classrooms were built, but no adjacent
latrines or buildings for school management were constructed. These problems reflected the use of poor
quality materials and unqualified contractors and laborers. Some work that was commenced was never
finished, while in some areas sub-projects never even started.
The difficulties incurred with poor quality mfaterials and unqualified contractors stemmed to some degree
from a lack of close supervision and management by the BCP. In some cases, there was a lack of planning
and integration with other local development activities or actors, where either the church, local NGOs, or
the local administration were side-stepped. The lack of skills held by those building the infrastructure
sub-projects, and the lack of management (financial and administrative) by the enterprises involved reveals
that more training should have been provided.
In other sectors, the impact on the population was perceived much more favorably. Those who were
beneficiaries of road projects were extremely satisfied with PNAS' work, as well as some of those who
benefited from the water projects (source development and systems). However according to BA findings,
some of the water source development did lead to the exclusion of the poorest of the poor from these
services. Water source development, while facilitating access to water and alleviating sicknesses affiliated
with contaminated water, can in some cases lead to such types of exclusion from services. Although
pre-PNAS water sources may have been farther away before source development, they were at least free.
After source development, however, fees were required for water usage, resulting in the exclusion of the
poorest in the commune.
Community involvement in infrastructure sub-project activities was limited for the most part to either work
as a laborer or beneficiary contribution in cash or kind. Beneficiaries did not seem to be involved in PNAS
sub-project activity selection, design, or monitoring. More often than not, sub-project proposals appear to
have originated from the burgomaster rather than the community, as had been envisaged.
Micro-Credit Activities
Type A of the micro-credit activities was launched in April of 1996 and lasted until April of 1997. Type B
ran for 8-12 months after it was initiated in September 1996. While type C began in March of 1998 and
ran until a few months after project closing. Beneficiary assessment findings in general noted that each
component experienced problems with repayment and failing micro-credit activities due to various factors.
First and foremost, the dismal economic conditions in the rural areas were not favorable at the time for
business start-ups.
*-15-



In addition, problems for the micro-credit component stemmed from: the late provision of training, for both
those overseeing the projects or taking loans. In general, training was provided after the micro-credit
projects conmmenced; the repayment period was too short (varied between 8 and 12 months) and the interest
rate was high, considering that inflation was rapidly decelerating; and those who took loans often did not
have enough business experience. As a result of these problems, many stopped their activities after they
repaid the loan and not many of the groups formed for the AGR still exist, either the implementing agencies
or beneficiary groups. In fact, in post-genocide Rwanda, many groups had been formed for the sole purpose
of accessing donor funds rather than for implementing AGR.
The poor repaymnent rate for type A stemmed from a dearth of qualified personnel and more competitive
micro-credit programs funded by other donors that had lower interest rates, thus causing the sense of
importance of and interest in the PNAS program to fall (attracting the most risky borrowers). Furthermore,
several AE provided credit to farnily members and friends. Type B had the best repayment rate. However,
the consultants who conducted the beneficiary assessment felt that this was due to the fact that the bank
would not give the loan for a micro-finance activity unless the potential debtor had a guarantee. This meant
that by default, the poorest groups within the communes where type B was implemented did not have
access to these loans.
Not far behind type B in terms of repayment rate, type C (60% repayment) was deemed by the beneficiary
assessment consultants as the most probable model for successful micro-finance activities in Rwanda. They
found that many of the type C projects were successful, however had to cease due to the overly high
interest rates or PNAS project closure. Certain type C activities that were commenced during PNAS still
exist, as do some of the groups who formed to participate in micro-credit activities. Despite the more
encouraging results of type C, given the highly complex country context, AGR should have been
discontinued in the post-genocide period, as suggested by the Bank.
Food Security and Nutritional Program
At the time of PNAS, there were (and in some areas still are) high levels of malnutrition; thus, those who
did receive aid appreciated PAN efforts. As the PAN project continued, food aid decreased in quality and
quantity. It was requested that recipients make contributions if they could. Aid was initially based on a
weight/age ratio; this was later switched to a weight/size ratio - effectively disqualifying many
malnourished for aid. As PAN progressed, this decrease in the quality of service given translated into fewer
people seeking food relief from PAN. Although some health center staff were trained, most beneficiaries
stated that they did not receive nutrition training, and that some sort of education about how they could
have used local resources to better feed their children would have been appreciated. These observations
reflect on the general nature of the delivery of emergency operations where the focus is on short-term
output rather than on longer-term impact.
Phase III
According to findings from the phase III BA, these community-oriented efforts, in general, resulted in
improved quality of socioeconomic infrastructure and capacity building. Most sub-project activities
undertaken were completed and were of good quality, while procedures for implementation were also
respected. Yet in a few cases, infrastructure sub-projects were unable to be finished or reach their full
potential due to inadequate funding, inadequate communication between the CDC and beneficiaries,
inadequate time allotted for implementation, or numerous changes in community priorities. Some delays
were also experienced in jump-starting the sub-projects. In terms of the micro-credit component, which had
been identified by the population of one sector as a priority, beneficiaries at times did not understand the
- 16 -



basics of the program.
Overall, beneficiaries appreciated the capacity builiding that occurred with sub-project implementation, and
felt that their increased participation would help increase the sustainability of the sub-projects. The
community development plans established by the CDCs and communities were also helpful to the local
administration in terms of development within the commune. Some CDCs have already contacted other
donors to finance remaining activities contained in these plans and partially succeeded in raising funds. Yet,
as this was a new approach to development in the PVK, for which many in the pilot communities were
unfamiliar, more time should have been allotted to ensure understanding on the part of the CDCs,
communities, and local administration. The lessons from the phase III BA are already being applied in
CRDP implementation.
Summary ratings
The following table provides an overview of ratings for phases II and III for each component:
Component                           Phase II rating       Phase III rating
Infrastructure                            S                      S
Micro-credit activities                   U                      U
Food security and nutrition               S
Training and capacity building            U                      S
Studies                                   S                      U
Taking into account the very difficult and evolving country situation and the satisfactory rating for the most
important component (infrastructure), the overall output rating for the project is "S".
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
PNAS phase II encouraged institutional development through the training of national and local government
to help execute PNAS and its various sub-projects. In addition, local AEs and PMEs benefited from the
training conducted for and experience gained from the micro-credit and infrastructure sub-projects.
However, such institutional strengthening happened late in phase II.
Phase III also used training to help improve institutional development at the local level, but took this a step
further by involving the local population and administration in decision-making processes. Community
input was sought for prioritizing local needs, developing community development plans, and allocating
* 17-



funds from a set budget to fulfill and meet those needs, while local contractors were used in the execution
of these local sub-projects. Thus phase III not only trained local groups, but also attempted to empower
them to take part an active role in local development. The CDC is now an integral part of Government
policy and is used for other development interventions. New Bank projects, including the Human Resources
Development, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, and the Rural Sector Support have used these
structures in their community-focused components.
The institutional development impact is rated "M" for phase II, "SU" for phase III, and "M" overall.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Conditions internal and external to Rwanda affected project development, impact, and success. Difficult
social and economic conditions in Rwanda were compounded by the start of civil war in October 1990 and
by the genocide in April-July 1994. Throughout the project's life, Rwanda experienced political instability,
internal and regional insecurity, and suffered from a lack of institutional capacity. Another key problem
was the continual mass migration of refugees (exiting and retuming) and internally displaced persons
(IDPs). In 1994, more than half a million old caseload returnees, 200,000 new caseload returnees, and I
million IDPs flooded the countryside. Roughly 1.5 million refugees returned to Rwanda in 1996/97. It is
unlikely that more rapid alterations in project design could have been better able to deal with these issues of
such immense proportions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Most of the documentation recording early project history of PNAS was lost during the genocide, in
particular those regarding the procurement of goods from the beginning of the project until April 1994.
Therefore Government and implementing agencies' roles are only evaluated in the post-genocide era.
Administrative problems in phase II, including supervision and general project management, stemmed from
a lack of capacity in the new BCP installed after the genocide. In addition, frequent changes in Government
positions affected project implementation, leading to changes in sub-project focus. New officials tended to
push a change in project emphasis. In many cases, access was stressed over quality (to some extent
however, Rwanda was not institutionally organized to tackle quality in 1995 and 1996, and even 1997).
The Government could have also stepped-in in several areas and assisted with ensuring the sustainability of
PNAS activities (in terms of covering recurrent costs, etc.).
Implementation of PNAS phase II might have been improved through a different choice of parent ministry.
PNAS was attached to the Ministry of Finance, a ministry devoid of people skills, with an urban bias, no
links to the rural communities, and no construction, engineering and agricultural back-stopping capabilities.
The initial choice may have been because of the high visibility of the ministry and the cross-sectoral nature
of the project. However, this institutional choice may have led to missed opportunities to build capacity
both at the central and local levels. Furthermore, it may have contributed to a certain lack of government
ownership (linked also to the fact that many in government saw PNAS as associated with the pre-genocide
government). It appears thus more appropriate in post-conflict settings to house a project in the relevant
sector ministry and use the project to build much needed capacities, even if this delayed implementation
somewhat.
- 18-



This lesson has been taken up in phase III, which was implemented under the Ministry of Local
Government. Furthermore, the overall policy environment for community-based urban development was
favorable and support from the PVK and the parent ministry was readily forthcoming. Nevertheless, during
phase III, delays occurred in particular regarding procurement through the National Tender Board.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During phase II, the BCP experienced financial and administrative management difficulties, mainly in
instances involving sub-projects and working with sub-contractors. Sub-projects experienced delays, were
left uncompleted, used poor quality materials, or were completed in a sub-standard manner. Many of these
problems were within the control of the sub-contractors hired to complete the sub-projects. Problems with
sub-project management stemmed from the overall weakness and shortage of well-trained and technical
personnel at the communal level but also from sub-contractors operating in bad faith - by misusing funds,
not paying workers, or not completing (or sometimes not even beginning) work.
Tighter BCP supervision may have prevented the use of poor quality materials and helped ensure better
quality of end-products. Specific guidelines on how to select sub-contractors may have helped the BCP
avoid the retaining of unqualified and poor quality firms. As the project developed, the BCP did begin to
address this problem and started a "black list" of agencies who had done poor work or had trouble
implementing the sub-projects they were contracted to do. However, this list could not be found in the files,
and it can, thus, not be ascertained to what extent it was applied. Nevertheless, judging from the problems
incurred with sub-projects, a more stringent policy of evaluating and assessing contractors before hiring
them could have been beneficial to the project.
Implementation of phase III experienced certain delays at the beginning, linked to the need to set up a new
albeit small project office in PVK and the unfamiliarity of BC staff with the new approach to participation
and decentralization.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total amount of the IDA credit was US$ 19,100,000, or SDR 14,000,000. As of January 22, 2001,
approximately 97.00% of the funds had been disbursed. A total of US$ 18,919,150.35 had been disbursed
(SDR 13,575,773.98), leaving a total of US$ 551,408.98 undisbursed (SDR 424,226.02). The Borrower
obligation, as of December 31, 2000, was US$ 17,712,312.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The PNAS project was established to address the immediate social needs linked to the implementation of
the structural adjustment program. Following the genocide, PNAS phase II took on some activities similar
to those provided by relief, which met local needs but were not focused on long-term development. To this
extent, it may not be appropriate to evaluate the project's sustainability, especially when considering the
number of times project objectives and components changed throughout the project's lifetime.
PNAS activities after the genocide were initiated on the ground often before the line ministries were
effectively engaged in interventions. Thus, PNAS activities were not able to be fully integrated into
established government structures at least up until 1997. Difficult in-country conditions, such as insecurity
and widespread abject poverty, prevented the establishment of cost recovery systems for most of the
sub-project activities, thereby also diminishing project sustainability. To counteract this, however, some
- 19-



local administrations have put their own cost recovery systems into place to keep infrastructure
sub-projects operational. In addition, beneficiaries in some areas participated in the management and
financing of infrastructure sub-project maintenance.
PNAS did, however, leave a long-term mark in terms of the infrastructure it left in place. Schools, health
centers, and water sources constructed by PNAS are still in use today, and beneficiaries are still reaping the
rewards. Another sustainable benefit from PNAS has been the increase in local (and to a lesser extent
national) knowledge and know-how from training and capacity building activities. National and local
Government actors involved in the implementation of PNAS gained experience from the project in terms of
financial and administrative management. The micro-credit component, which was integrated into the FSU
to perpetuate the momentum in economic and social growth left by PNAS after its closing, was for the most
part unsuccessful, and therefore did not leave continued economic growth and development in the
communes.
The local capacity building efforts under phase III are likely to have a more pronounced, longer-term effect
on development. The Government held local elections to establish CDCs in all communes throughout
Rwanda, signifying a commitment to local level involvement. This local involvement will continue through
the actions of the CDCs and their work with communities in establishing their own development plans,
making their own decisions in regards to their needs, and allocating funds to these prioritized needs as they
see fit. This decentralization and increased participation in development, as spearheaded under PNAS
phase III, could lead to an increase of social capital within communes, while also contributing to a regained
trust in both the local and national level administration.
In particular because of the importance of CDCs in the Government's development approach, sustainability
is rated as "L".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government discontinued phase II-type operations in favor of phase III-type development interventions
geared toward greater decentralization and participation. The CDCs have become part and parcel of the
Government's new approach. Their capacities and functions are being enhanced in a wide range of sectors
and activities, including other Bank-financed projects.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Lack of pre-genocide information does not allow for a detailed assessment of Bank performance during the
lending and early supervision stages (files at headquarters pertaining to phase I were lost in the handover of
task managers in 1996). The PNAS project design reflected similar other social programs that accompanied
the structural adjustment process in the early 1990s and is based on the findings of the 1992 poverty
assessment. Available information, thus, suggests that Bank performance can be rated as "S", given in
particular the challenges of project preparation in a civil war context.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision during phase II did troubleshoot some of the administrative and financial management
problems incurred by PNAS staff, and it is evident by certain project changes that Bank staff tried to
accommodate to changing conditions and respond to feedback from the technical reports. However,
- 20 -



supervision missions between late 1995 and early 1997 were few, and an inadequate skill mix can be
observed throughout phase II. At the same time, the involvement of the Bank's office in Kigali remained
limited.
Closer supervision during phase II may have helped: a) increase the capacity of the BCP to ensure better
use of moneys and more qualified contractors for infrastructure and micro-credit sub-projects; b) recognize
earlier the need for training on basic infrastructure and micro-credit activities, while also better matching
training to meet required needs; and c) recognize the need for an improved monitoring and evaluation
system. Under phase III, the skill mix was more adequate and the field office was closely involved in
supervision.
It should be noted that mission travel until 1997 was risky and sometimes outright dangerous. Moreover, an
extraordinarily limited supervision budget had a negative impact on the level of supervision and the skill
mix of teams. Given these circumstances, Bank supervision efforts during the immediate post-genocide
years were laudable. Nevertheless, Bank supervision perfonmance is rated as "U" during phase II and "S"
during phase III. Overall, Bank supervision perfonnance is rated as "U".
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Within a most complex environment, the Bank has been able to respond appropriately to events and needs
throughout the life of the project, to learn from the evolving project, and to apply increasing knowledge
accumulating institution-wide. The overall Bank performance is, therefore, rated "S".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Missing documentation complicates an assessment of Government performance during lending. The PNAS
project stemmed from a Govemment and Bank effort to alleviate negative economic conditions from the
structural adjustment program and agricultural decline. The Government assisted with targeting the
country's most immediate social needs (in the fonn of food security, employment, and quick injections of
funds at the local level), as well as the most vulnerable groups and regions. This also was designed to
address some of the consequences emerging from the civil war. An independent consultant found that the
government was interested in creating social expenditure programs that would help address the social and
economic problems facing Rwanda at the time. Borrower performance during preparation is, therefore,
rated as "S".
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's role in the PNAS project was limited by the difficult conditions in the country including
the low levels of capacity after the genocide. To aL lesser extent, frequent changes in Government officials
also hindered project performance under phase II and National Tender Board procedures unnecessarily
delayed phase III implementation. Consultant findings show that the Government effectively oversaw
PNAS' implementation of phases II and III. However, the problems encountered especially during phase II
suggest that closer attention would have been warranted. Consequently, Government implementation
performance is rated as "U".
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PNAS implementation unit (BCP) of phase II accomplished quite remarkable achievements,
- 21 -



re-launching activities rapidly in late 1995 and accommodating many of the needs emanating from the
massive return of refugees in 1996/97. The speedy start-up, however, came at the cost of less than adequate
sub-project supervision also due to the fact that supervision staff were few and capacities were limited.
Furthermore, financial and administrative management problems were encountered. Performance of the
implementation agency during phase II is, thus, rated as "U". In this light, the "HS" ratings for development
objectives and implementation progress during 1996 and 1997 may not have been justified.
The coordination office in PVK had only limited staff, which caused some delays in the start-up phase.
However, it implemented phase III 8 diligently and following strict financial management procedures. Its
performance is rated as "S". Overall, the performance of the implementing agency is rated as "U".
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower's performance is rated "S". Special note should be made that this project was
implemented under complex circumstances, and despite this, was able to set out and achieve, to a fair
extent, its objectives. The Borrower's performance contributed to this achievement. Furthermore, the
Government very strategically re-oriented the project in phase III toward an as of yet untested approach to
development, using phase III methods of decentralization and participation also to demonstrate to other
development partners the appropriateness of the new approach.
8. Lessons Learned
Considering the pre- and post-genocide states of Rwanda, and the continuing insecurity that plagued the
country throughout the project's existence, the PNAS project was effective in meeting its established goals
and objectives. Both Bank staff and Government representatives operated under difficult conditions,
especially in the years immediately following the genocide. Based on the experience of PNAS, there are
various recommendations on project design and management that can be made to help ensure the quality of
similar projects in conflict-affected countries.
Post-conflict environments necessitate malleable project designs in order to be able to adapt to the often
rapidly changing conditions as to what is feasible and what is desirable. PNAS was a standard investment
project, which is inherently inflexible despite the ability to restructure, with lengthy implementation periods.
At the same time, the ability to adapt a project to the emerging situation in the country can help facilitate,
and accompany, the difficult transition from short-term emergency to longer-term reconstruction activities.
PNAS has proven that a project can indeed evolve and adjust to shifting priorities, closing also the gap
between what is desirable and what is feasible in a post-conflict context.
Speed and ownership are a regular trade-off for interventions in a post-conflict environment. In an
emergency period, implementation through an independent agency (such as a social fund) may be most
efficient as long as local capacities are too weak to carry out such activities. However, the most effective
and efficacious implementation strategies may be those more participatory in nature that actively involve
the community and the local administration. This may help improve sub-project activity selection and
targeting sub-projects to match beneficiary needs. An integral part of this involvement includes capacity
building activities that seek to train and empower local administrators, the beneficiaries, sub-contractors
and NGOs. Furthermore, sustainability options should be built into each project to the extent possible, such
as cost recovery systems that are identified and agreed upon by the population and the local administration.
Monitoring and evaluation, including quantitative and qualitative indicators, should be conducted regularly
- 22 -



so as to be able to make snap decisions and respond expediently to matters in a changing and sometimes
volatile environment. Organization is quite important for projects in conflict areas, which require good
documentation systems, regular supervision missions with adequate skill mix (especially regarding
fiduciary responsibilities), and keeping on top of the rapidly changing social, political and economic
environments. Where Bank supervision from headquarters is constrained for security reasons, staff in the
field office should be involved closely. If this were not feasible either, alternative arrangements could be
sought with NGOs and/or donor/UN partners.
Projects in post-conflict countries should pay particular attention to financial management. The emergency
situations typical to the post-conflict environment necessitate the quick disbursement of funds. However,
weak Government capacity and the lack of adeq[uate financial controls require the close monitoring of
funds. Care should also be taken to ensure the equal allocation of funds to projects that are inclusive and
target all needy groups, and do not focus solely on one particular group (so as to avoid exacerbate
inter-group tensions).
Micro-credit activities, which by nature require some level of stability within the environment they are
implemented, may not be appropriate in post-conflict environments. Local level capacities are usually
drained, and economic conditions may not be the most favorable for business start-ups. If micro-credit
activities are implemented, community ownership seems essential and great care should be taken in
selecting executing agencies, which should be experienced, trustworthy groups with a history of work in the
area.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A summary report by the Government's Bureau Central des Projets et du Financement Exterieur (CEPEX)
is provided in Annex 8. The complete report is available in the project files.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
*   Annex 9 provides a summary of the Beneficiary Assessment methodology applied for assessing project
impact under phases II and III.
*   Annex 10 provides the aide-memoire of the IC]R preparation mission (June 2000).
*   Annex 11 provides the aide-memoire of the ICR review mission (March 2001).
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Infrastructure sub-projects
Rehabilitation and extension of school  156                                 156
centers
Furniture for school centers          122                                   122
Rehabilitation and fumishing of school                                      13
centers
Rehabilitation of health centers      13                                    13
Rehabilitation of centers for         4                                     4
non-accompanied children (CENA)
Spnng development                     750 (44 sources)                      750 (44 sources)
Rural water supply and sanitation     15                                    15
Reforestation and environmental protection   26                             26
Rehabilitation of rural roads         3                                     3
Construction of village markets       3                                     3
Other                                 0
Amount of employment generated        2,500,000                             2,500,000
(personfday)
Number of beneficiaries
Schools                               199,000                               199,012
School Furniture                      174,000                               174,048
Health Centers                        180,000                               180,000
CENA                                  4,900                                 4,856
Spring development                    141,000                               141,120
Water supply and sanitation           70,000                                70,000
Reforestation and environmental protection   183,500                        190,000
Rehabilitation of rural roads         190,000                               190,000
Construction of village markets       370,700                               370,222
Micro-credit actvities
Numbers of micro-projects completed   211                                   209
Beneficiaries                                                               815-1150
- 24 -



Food security component
Metric Tons of Food Distributed        8,465                                  8,465
Beneficiaries                          128,300                                 128,300
Training and capacity building
Number of training sessions provided   108                                    108
Beneficiaries                          943                                    943
Studies
Number of studies conducted            43                                     40
Original objectives (phase 1)
Improve the food security and social welfare  Yes                             Yes
of the poorest populaton groups
Improve the Govemments capability to   Yes                                    Yes
monitor living standards of the population
Initiate a long-term poverty alleviation strategy Yes                         No
Revised objectives (phase 11)
Support the recovery of community activities Yes                              Yes
by rehabilitating social and economic
infrastructure
Promote small-scale productive activities  Yes                                Yes
Create temporary and permanent         Yes                                    Yes
employment
Improve the nutrition of relatively poor and    Yes                           Yes
vulnerable groups
Adapted objectives (phase l1l)
Openness of dialogue achieved in the   All CDCs discuss project-related issues in a  5 out of 6 CDCs discuss project related
Community Developmnent Committees of    frank manner and resolve problems     issues regularly and openly.
participating communes                 harmoniously.
Extent of transparency and accountability    All CDCs share information regularly with the All CDCs share information with the
within the local decision making process of  population and respond to possible  population and the concems and complaints
partcipating communes                  complaints by the population directly and  of the population are taken into account
properly.                              during sub-project execution.
Level of satisfaction of beneficiaries with  A significant majcrity of the populabtion  The beneficiaries are very satisfied with the
community-level project outcomes       expresses clear satisfaction with the way the results obtained. They appreciated the
project is designed and implemented,   opportunity to identity their needs, translate
regarding process (participation and   these needs into sub-projects, and
decentralization) and products         participate fully in the execution of these
(sub-projects).                        sub-projects.
Assessment regarding the replicability of the A significant majorty of the population fully   A majority of the population fully supports the
project activities on a wider scale.   supports the project (processes and     project and most procedures have proven
outcomes) and financial, technical and  appropriate. Certain procedures can be
administrative procedures at the central and  improved without much effort. This approach
local levels are ccnsidered appropriate  is, thus, replicable in all sectors of PVK.
(understandable, effective) by the population.
- 25 -



Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
la. Number of sub-projects financed.  At least 75% of planned sub-projects have   27 out of 38 sub-projects have been
been executed.                        implemented (71%). 6 out of 7 infrastructure
sub-project have been executed. 10 out of 20
micro-credit sub-projects have not been
financed.
lb. Comparison of community development At least 75% of funds are disbursed  Not applicable. The implementabon manual
plans and sub-projects executed.      according to the community development    has been adapted so that financial
plan.                                 management was handled by the Bureau de
Coordination (BC) of PVK.
2a. Number of training activities undertaken  Start-up training has been provided to all    Two training sessions have been organized
and of people trained.                CDC members.                          for the 88 CDC members, including
participatory rural appraisals, organizational,
project and financial management, and
environmental awareness. In addition, 177
beneficiaries of AGR received basic training
in micro-credit management.
2b. Rate of approval of sub-projects.  At least 90% of all proposed sub-project    38 out of 43 proposed sub-projects have
have been approved by the CDCs.       been approved (88%). All infrastructure (7)
and capacity building (1) sub-projects have
been approved.
2c. Rate of sub-projects with deviations.    At least 90% of all approved sub-project have There has been no deviation in the
been implemented without unjustified  implementation of the 38 sub-projects.
deviation.
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Civil Works                                          8.50           12.60           100
Equipment, Materials                                 4.50           0.81            100
Training & Studies                                   0.30           0.30            100
Consultants' Services                                1.50           2.29            100
Operating Costs                                      0.90            1.20           100
Refund of P726                                                      0.81
Comm Reintegr Activ                                                 0.73
SPAC $600,000 IN                                                    -0.05
CRDP-Category 8                                                     0.22
SP/AC@BNR                                                           0.00
Unallocated                                          2.10           0.00
PPF                                                  1.30                           300
Total Baseline Cost                                 19.10          18.91
Total Project Costs             19.10          18.91
Total Financing Required             19.10           18.91
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          4.70         4.30         0.00         9.00
(0.00)       (4.70)       (4.30)        (0.00)       (9.00)
2. Goods                     3.50          1.60         0.10         15.40        20.60
(3.50)       (1.60)       (0.10)        (0.00)       (5.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         6.80          0.00         6.80
Studies, Technical          (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.70)        (0.00)       (2.70)
Assistance, Training
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         1.00          5.40         6.40
Incremental Operating       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.90)        (0.00)       (0.90)
Costs
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          2.00         2.00
Micro-enterprise funds      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         1.30          0.00         1.30
PPF Refinancing             (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.30)        (0.00)       (1.30)
Total                     3.50          6.30         13.50        22.80        46.10
(3.50)       (6.30)       (9.30)        (0.00)      (19.10)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           4.70           4.30           0.00          9.00
(0.00)         (4.70)         (4.30)         (0.00)        (9.00)
2. Goods                         3.50           1.60           0.10           15.40         20.60
(3.50)         (1.60)         (0.10)         (0.00)        (5.20)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           6.80           0.00           6.80
Studies, Technical              (0.00)          (0.00)        (2.70)         (0.00)         (2.70)
Assistance, Training
4. Miscel(aneous                 0.00           0.00           1.00           5.40           6.40
Incremental Operating           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.90)         (0.00)         (0.90)
Costs
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           2.00           2.00
Micro-enterprise funds          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           1.30           0.00           1.30
PPF Refinancing                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.30)         (0.00)         (1.30)
Total                         3.50           6.30           13.50          22.80         46.10
(3.50)         (6.30)         (9.30)         (0.00)        (19.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1991              6   - Jacques Baudouy, TTL
- Eileen Murray, Financial
Analyst
- Guislaine Delaine, Statistician
- Qaiser Khan, Economist,
- Kees Tuinenburg, Economist
- Marco Ferroni, Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1991               8   - Jacques Baudouy, TTL
- Eileen Murray, Financial
Analyst
- Guislaine Delaine,
Statistician
- Qaiser Khan, Economist,
- Sven Hertel, Engineer
- Kees Tuinenburg,
Economist
- Marco Ferroni, Economist
- Harley Johnson,
Community Development
Specialist
September /                 6   - Qaiser Khan, TTL,
October 1992                    - Eileen Murray, Financial
Analyst
- Guislaine Delaine, Statistician
- Sven Hertel, Engineer
- Tonia Marek, Consultant
- Raymond Martin, Consultant
Supervision
February 1993               2   - Jacques Baudouy, TTL               U              HS
May 1993                    2   - Jacques Baudouy, TTL               U              IHS
- Eileen Murray, Financial
Analyst
- 30 -



July 1993                    6   - Eileen Murray, TTL                  S               HS
- Christian Rey, Implementation
Specialist
- Jayshree Balachander,
Nutritionist
- Kishor Uprety, Lawyer
- Qaiser Khan, Economist
- Thierry Brun, Economist
December 1993                2   - Eileen Murray, TTL                   S               S
- Thierry Brun, Economist
PSR Update                        - Eileen Murray, TTL                 HU              HU
without site visit
on June 1994
PSR Update                    I   - Eileen Murray, TTL                 HU              HU
without site visit
on September
1994
November /                   4   - Eilleen Murray, TTL                 U                U
December 1994                     - Francois Munyantwali,
Operations Officer
- Hoang Dam Van, Consultant
- Marc Van Imschoot, Consultant
April 1995                    1   - Eileen Murray, TTL                 U                U
September 1995               2   - Eileen Murray, TTL                  S                S
- Frangois Munyantwali,
Operations Officer
April 1996                    3   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                 S               S
- Eileen Murray, Operations
Officer
- Fran.ois Munyantwali,
Operations Officer
PSR Update                    I   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                HS              HS
without site visit
on June 1996
February 1997                 1   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                HS              HS
June 1997 -                   I   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                HS              HS
Mid-Term Review
December 1997                 1   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                HS              HS
- 31 -



April 1998                   2   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
August 1998                  2   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
November 1998                2   - Menahem Prywes, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
April 1999                   2   - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
- Michelle Cullen, Social Analyst
September 1999               3   - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
- Prosper Nindorera,
Procurement Specialist
PSR Update                   I   - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
without site visit
on March 2000
June 2000                    2   - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
October 2000                 5   - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
- Marie-Claudine Fundi,
Disbursement Assistant
- Antoinette Kamanzi, Team
Assistant
- Habdul Haji, Financial
Management Specialist
ICR
September 1999              4    - Markus Kostner, TTL                S               S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
- Michelle Cullen, Social
Analyst
- Habdul IHaji, Financial
Management Specialist
- 32 -



June 2000                  3    - Markus Kostner, TTL               S              S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
- Michelle Cullen, Social
Analyst
March 2001                 5    - Markus Kostner, TTL               S              S
- Toni Kayonga, Operations
Officer
- Marie-Claudine Fundi,
Disbursement Assistant
- Antoinette Kamanzi, Team
Assistant
- Juvenal Nzambimana,
Disbursement Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             68.00                       141.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                   80.10                      158.30
Supervision                            136.40                     291.50
ICR                                     12.30                      24.50
Total                                 296.80                      615.30
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                                  O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
N Institutional Development                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                             O H OSU*M O N O NA
M Other (Please specify)             O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social: The use of participatory rural
appraisals greatly improved the ownership of the
activities carried out under phase III.
F Private sector development                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Oi Public sector management                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Fl Other (Please specify)                   OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfaczory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
E Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
Oj Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS O S   * U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
-35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
11/91 Final Executive Project Summary
1992 Staff Appraisal Report
8/95 Budget-Program BCP/PNAS
9/95 CDC first meeting notes
8/95 FSU manual of procedures
2/96 FSU manual of procedures
1/96 PNAS Trimester Report
3/96 PNAS Trimester Report
5/9/96 Back-to-Office Report
6/96 PNAS Trimester Report
8/96 PNAS Trimester Report
9/96 CDC meeting notes
10/96 Trimester Report
1996 PAN Annual Report
1/97 Trimester Report
2/97 CDC meeting notes
4/97 Socio-economic Review
4/97 Aide-memoire
5/97 Mid-course review aide-memoire
5/14/97 Back-to-office report
7/97 CDC meeting notes for mid-project review
11/97 CDC meeting notes
4/98 CRDP implementation manual
7/98 PNAS Trimester Report
8/98 Overall Results on PNAS and outline of AGETIR
12/98 CEPEX Inventory
9/99 Aide-memoire
6/00 Aide-memoire
10/00 Aide-memoire
3/01 Aide-memoire
12/99 Beneficiary Assessment for phase II
01/01 Beneficiary Assessment for phase III (evaluation par les beneficiaires)
01/01 Final implementation review (evaluation de la mise en oeuvre)
4/01 Rapport d'Achevement du Projet Programme National d'Actions Sociales (PNAS), CEPEX
5/01 Rapport d'Achevement du Projet Programme National d'Actions Sociales (version resumee), CEPEX
Forms 590 and PSR
Audits for 1994-2000
Phase III quarterly progress reports (June 1999 to December 2000)
- 36 -



Additional Annex 8. PNAS/CRDP-PVK - Cr. 2388-RW - Completion Report
REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE
Mirstie des Finances
et de la Planificatlon lconomique
Bumeau Central de& Projets et du Fhnancement Ext6rkur
(CEPEX)
PROGRAMME NATIONAL D'AiCTiONS SOCIALES (PNASI 
PROTET "COMMUNITY REINTGRATION AND
DEVELOPMENT PRO!ECTI lCRDP-FVXK
(Cr6dit IDA 238:RW)
RAPPORT   ACHIEVE           (Version r6sum6e)
:.    Contextt. Obiceifs et Mise en euvre
Le Programme National dActions Sdiales (PNAS) a k6 concu par le Gouvernement
Rwandais pour )utter conbte la situation de dktrioration des conditions sociales du pays.
Dans ce cadre, le Gouvernewwnt a nftoci6 et obtonu de l'IDA un credit d'un montant de TS
14 000 000 dont raccord a t signe le 12 aolat 1992. Le Projet "PNAS" (categories I A 7) a ete
si6ture le 31 d&eenbre 1998.
Apres la guerre et le g4nocide de 1994, les ob0ectifs du Projet ont dtk reformules et ont 6t6
d6finis cLomnme suit:
(a) arneliorer I'ttat nutritionnel de certains groupes dkmunis et %Mln6rables de la
popuIation;
(b) soutenir des initiatives de redemarrage des activit6s communuautaires en rChabilitant les
infrastructures sociales et economiques;
(c) encourager l.a participation des populations a des activit6s productives a petite Cchelle;
(d) creer des emplois aussi bien temporaires que durables.
Ces objectifs etaient tres valables et correspondaient tou.t a fait A la situation catastrophique
que coruiaissait le Rwanda pendant cente p6riode dapr*s le genocide et ils constituaient des
conditions suffisantes pout redemarrer le developpement du pays.
11 !tait en outre devenu necessaire d'qtendre la zcne d'action du Projet A tout le pays et la
population beneiiciaire devait itclure Cgalcment les personnes affecteeq directement ou
indirectement par la guerre.
Par aifleurs le besoin de repondre & des deinandes importantes de reconstruction ou de
rehabilitation dinfrastructures et equipements sociaux se faisait sentir.
Le Projet redefini est rests avec deux composantes. la Securite Alimnentaire et Nutrition et le
Foonds Social d Urgence.
La composante Skcurite Alimentaire et Nutrition avait pour groupe-ible les enfants mal
nourris de 0 A 5 ans et leurs families, ains que les femmes enceintes et allaitanLes A faible
- 37 -



revenu. ls 6taient touches A travers le r4seau des services nutritionnels. LAs faxnilles victines
du SIDA ont ete Cgalement assistees.
La composante Fonds Social dUrgence devait financer tout d'abord la rhabflitation dtes
infrastructures soaales (ecoles, centres de sante, am6nageaent de sources et adduction
d'eau) mais egalement la rehabilitation de pistes rurales, de ponts, de marches, de
reboiseuwnts etc. (Volet "Infrastructures de Base") Lk Fonds a finance en outre des activitts
generatrices de revenus en se faisant appuyer par des Agences d'Encadrement (Volet
-AGR')
Dans le cadre du Volet "Infrastructures de Base", qui d consttue le gros du travail du PNAS,
le Proet a realis6 393 sous-prjts (277 de rehabilitation et equipement scolaire; 44
d'am*r gement de soumces d'eau potable; 15 de rehiabilitation de centres de santc; 26 de
reboisemnent; 16 dadduction d'eau; 5 de r6habilitation de centres d'enfants non accompagnes
-CENA-; 4 de r&habilitation de rnarches ruraux et 4 de r6habilitation de piates) pour un
montant total de 3.741.122.213 Frw.
Danm le cadre du volet 'ActivitOs Generatrices des Revenus", 211 petits projets ont bWn6ficie
d'un finanement (cr#dits remboursables) du PNAS. Le monitant total des crddits octroyes
s'elevait A 12S.248.570 Frw dent seulement 82.469.526 Frw (58% du rnontant total d(i y
compris les int4rits) Ctaient rembourses jusqu'en septembre 1998. It est ai noter que ce
pourcentage est atteint grAce au remboursement total du montant accorde A I'Union des
Banques Populaires du Rwanda (UBPR) pour lexecution d'un progranume de petits cTedits.
Le Progrannw Alimentaire et Nutrition a distribue 8-465 tonnes do vivres A SO services
nutnitonnels et A 40 Centres pour enfants non accoumpagnes (CENA), et a dispense des
fornmations A des agents de ces services.
Le Bureau de Coordination du PNAS (BCP) a en outre organis6 des sessions de formation a
l'intertion des cadres des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises et des Buzeaux d'Etudes qui
travaillaient en etrite collaboration avec le PNAS aisi qu'A l'intention de ses propres cadres
at dls aniniateurs d'associations villageoises. Au total, '19 personnes ont pu beneficier des
formatins du PNAS.
La qualite et I utilit6 des infrastructures construites sont jugees en ,n&eal tres satls(aisates.
LIs enquetes  ene1es et les visites effectuecs ont confirmn  quo ies responsables et les
benefidaires sont unanines a se declarer satisfaits des travaux  entrepris et, plus
particulieremenit, de l'appui S   rnisterdiaii qui leur a 01t; octroye.
11 y a pourtant certains cas oui les ouvrages auraient dti rtre adaptcs A la situation du nilieu
(par exemple le marche de Rurare). Tn est en outre regrettable que le plus souvent des
gouttieres ainsi que citernes pour recueiltir 1'eau des pluies n'aient pas 4dtC prevues dans les
constructio0s. De m6me, les bureaux des directeurs des centres scolaires ain6i que des
cdotures n'avaient pas Otis prCvues.
LUs audits techniques ont m-ontre que les normes de 4coit par classe cornstruite cu r&habilit-,
pax source aenagsee, par hectare de foret rehabihitee sont relativement faibles et qu'ils
faisaient pensex que les marges bt&ficiaires des MIE  (Petites et Moyennes Entreprises)
Ctaient plut6t faibles: I'accession aux appels d'offre du PNAS etait pour la pitipart des PME le
ii
- 38 -



moyen de se faLre connaitre et dftnerger sur le naurchb du BTP (Batiments et Travaux
Publics) que de faire dec bMEnfices substantiels.
La part des htudes et de lencadrement (incluant le travail des cadres du PNAS devant se
substituer A des AE defaillantes en 1996 et 1997) Otait retadvemnent faible: 7% du coot total.
D'une fa(on g4nkrale, on constate que les sous-projets s6lectionrns ou rejetes par le PNAS
rondaient respectivement aux crithres d'ligibiite et de rejet dEfinis dans le Manuel de
Procdures. Tl est vident que certaines autorit*s coanuunales dynaniques ont quand mOme
pu en profiter plus que d'autres.
La passabon des marches a OgaIement suivi lee rtgles ainsi que les recommandations
trranant des difterents audits 11 est canstat en outre que le codt par sous-projet et les coots
unitaires pour les diff6rentes catgories d'infrastructures est tres apprciable gr6ce aux
procdures du PNAS (forte concurrence et pateent rapide des attachements).
Le suivi des travaux par le BCP a ete tres regulieT et cela explique aussi la qualite des
r6alisations. Plusieurs bln6ficiaires ont manifesat leur satisfaction particulierewaunt a ce sujet,
d'autant plus qu'ils faisaient une comparaison avec certains autres projets ayant effectu6 des
travaux sindlaises.
Les se9sions de formation dispensee par le PNAS aux cadres des BE (Bureaux d'Eudes),
PME et AE (Agences d'Encadrement) ont sensiblelment contribu4 A I'amslioration de
l'ex&cution des travaux. Le PNAS a pgalernent forne lees promoteurs bneficiant du
programme de petits cr6dits nus en place avec le MIGEFASO (Minist*re du Genre, de la
Famille et Affaires Sociales). Mais malgr6 la formation additonnefle dispens6e en-
comptabUite simplifi&. Ia tenue des livres d'achat de pToduits grAce au cr&dit octroy6 et de
recettes est reset faible.
R1 est regrettable que le BCP n'ait pas 4labore unl rapport final englobant toutes les
ralisations du Irojet ainsi tousles autres &l6ments en rapport avec son execution.
A la dOture du Projel "Programme National d'Actions Sociales", categories I a 7, Ie
Gouvernement Rwandais a demandb A la Banque Mondiale d'utiiser IY reliquat de son cr6dit
pour lancer le projet-pilote 'Communlty Reintation and Development Project of PVK
(Prtfecture de a ViUle de Kigali), celui-ci devant sealenent op4rer danIs la Prfecture de la
Viule de Kigali. Le nouveau projel a etW approuv4 le 16 d6cembre 1998 pour Atre finance par
les reliquats du PNAS d'un montant de DTS 8K.717 @catgorie 8 du credit IDA 2388-RW). Le
CRDP-PVK a etc dotur6 le 31 d6cembre 2000.
Les objectifs du CRDP-PVlC etaient d'aider les rapatnes et autres groupes vulnerables par un
processus de r6insertion et de developpement communautaire et de mettre les communautbs
locales et l'administration au niveau communal et prefectoral naeux A m6me d'ex6cuter des
projets de d&veloppement.
A co6t d'un programme de formation intensive basee sur la "MOthode accldr6e% de recherche
participative4 (MARP) destinCe surtout aux membres des "Comidtes de DeveIoppement
Communautaire' (CDC) des 6 secteurs de la FVC r,etenus comnie zone d'intervention du
iii
- 39 -



Prjet, A savoir Nyakabanda, Kimisagara, Gisozi, Kagugu, Gatenga et Kimisange, le Projets a
rtaHis6 Jes sous-projets d'infrastnuctures socio4onoriques dans anq des 6 sectmes ainsi
qu'un programme de finan-ement d'activi*s gn6raties de revenus dads le secteur
Nyakabanda. Le6 Ssous-projets d9nfrastructures ont tt r#alis6s ummre suit:
- Constructon d'une salie polvvalente A Kagugu;
- Extension de lE'cole Primaire de Gasave;
-  Construction dune Ecole Matemelle et Extension de l'Ecole Prinaire de Kamuhoza
- Extension de l'Ecole Primaire de Gatenga; et
- Rehabilitation de l'Ecole Primaire de Kabusunza.
Dans tous les 6 secteurs participants, des sessions de formation ont ete organisees en faveur
des membres des CDC. Ainsi, 88 personnes ont reCu respectivement une fonation en
kiucation cooptrative, en organisalion sodale, en entreprenariat ainsi qu'en comptabilim! de
base. En plus, 173 Wnkficuaires du programme d'appui aux activit6s gCn6ratrices de revenus
(micro-crkdit) ont reiu une formation en gestion de micro credit.
Des plans de developpernent cowununautaire ont t Claborks pour tous [eS 6 secteurs
participants. La methodologie utitisee pour lelaboration de ces plans, la MARP, a pernis la
participation active de la population qui s'est sentie reunie et solidaire autour d'objectifs
cornmuns Ces plans sont naintenant disponibles et peuvent etre prOsentes aux differents
bailleurs de fonds pour requte de financement.
D'une fa*on particuhere, cette activit6 de "renforcement des capacites" entreprise par le
CRDP-PVK a permis aux CDC des 6 secturs participants de sortir d'un certain anonymat el
de mieux pouvoir assurer la mission qui leurs est confiee.
Cependant, i aurait fallu que les cadres de planification et les consultants expliquent
davantage aux participants que tea plas de dveloppement communautaire OlaborA  ne
constituaient pas les premi6res pnorites devant ktre financks absolument dans le cadre du
Projet CRDP-CVK, particulierement pour les secteus qul avaient comme IP-priorite
lapprovisionnement en eau potable.
Les travaux de construction et de fournilture de mobilier ont gts realises par des entreprises
locales apres appels d'ofrfes. Les CDC y ont eglenent particip. D'une fa.on gen&ale, tes
travaux ont Lte solidement effectues. 11 est particulierement remarquable que ]es travaux ont
it6 le mieux ex6cut#s dans les secteurs w4 les CDC 4taient les plus dynamiques.
Certaines imperfections qui ont W constat6es sent de moindre importance et pournaient Otre
corrigOes pendant la p6riode de garnmnie. De toute facon, il est remarquabie que les travaux
executes sont nettement de meilleure qualitE que ceunx du Projet PNAS (catfgories I - 7).
l.es travaux de rehabilitation ont ete egalement rdaIis4s par des entreprises locales apres
appels d'offres ct les CDC y ont egalernent participe. Pourtant pour les deux sousprojets, les
bnneficiaires ne se sont pas sont montrfs tout a fait satisfaits des realisations. Apparemnunt
ils n'avaient pas etc associ6s A la prration du cahier des charges et ills ne l'ont pas
suffisamient Ws lots de l'ex4cution des travaux.
-0v
- 40 -



Concernant ractivit6 'Financement de projets ginbtateurs de revenus (Fonds de Credit
Rotatif)"un seul secteur, celit de Nyakabanda, a bWnOfici6 de cette composante relative A
I'octroi dc micro-cK-dits. En effet, c'est le seul secteur qui lavait place daLs ses priorit6s. 11
s'agit dbn type de cr#dit rotatif destins aux petiles assciations et goupements avec un
systeme de cau lionnenient soliaaire.
11 est regrettable que la sonune prevue a cette actviti n'ait ete enti6rement liberec, d'autant
plus que le micro-cr&it constitue un domaine dactivit#s pouvant toucher rtellement les
persoiines vulntrables, et de cette facon pouvailt jouei un r6le preponderant au niveau de la
rMintegration.
Appareinment il y a eu des malentendus i difforents niveaux et le choix des associations
bentficiaires du niicro-cridit par le CDC du secteur il! se serait pas effectue sans probl6mes.
Cependant Ia condition du CRDP-PVK formulde A 11'adresse du CDC de Nyakabanda de
d&bluuer la deuxieme tranche apTes justification de l'utlisation de la lee ne paralt pas
convainquante et realiste, d'autant plus qu'il restait trOs peu de temps jusqu'a la cl6ture du
Projet.
11 est vrai que le micro-credit constitue une activit6 a risques dans beaucoup de projets de
d6veloppement, particulierement A cause de la mauvaise comprehension de ce systeme paT
la population rwandaise. Cependant, grAce A la coullaboration du Projet avec ulne nouvelle
structure de gouvernance d&centralis&e telle que les CM, ce type dXactiviWe deviait plutOl
prendre de l'ampleur et etre mnme itendue sur tous les autres secteurs.
Selon les documents disponibles, le budget total utiWsb par le CRDP-PVK s'dlIve a
Frw 39.406.056 equivalent A USD  982.241 sans compter les dettes du PNAS aux
fournisseursm Le montant utilis6 pour la categorie "sous-projets" est de Frw 198.685.000 (USD
&30.746), constituant ainsi 64,2% du budget total, ce qui en fait la composante budgttaire
prin4ipale.
La repartition du montant a affecter A chaque seteur destin6 A Pex&!ution des sous-projets
avait ete fix6 A une moyenne de USD 100.000. Pourtant les diiftrences entre les secteurs,
m6me s'ils font tous partie de la "Ville de Kigali" est Lnonne A differents niveaux.
infrastructures existantes, ressources huinaines, potentiel 6conurruque, etc. Certains secteurs
couime Kimisange tw sont pas trfs peuplas et n'ont pratiquement rien de la "Ville"! Ce
facteur aurait do etre pris en consideration avant de &eterauner le monitant A affecter A
chaque secteur pour ]'ex6cution des stus-projets.
Dan l'ensemnble, la performance du Projet CRDP-PVK dans la rnalisation de ses activites est
jugee satisfaisante. surtout si on tient compte du fait que le ternps qui lui etait imparti pour la
rt.alisation de toutes ces activitds elait seulement de 20 rnois y comnpris une longue p6riode de
sensibilisation de la population et des autorit6s administratives A 1a nouvelle approche - ce
qui etait par ailleurs absolument incontournable.
v
- 41 -



2.   ItQbILges maieurs rencontris tars de l'ex&udacn du urgrpatnin
* Certaines entreprises n'ont pas pu honorer leur contrat et ont dal atre remplacees.
D'autres ont certes ex6cut# les travaux mais n'ont pas correctement r4mun6r* leurs
employfs;
n 1I a  6tE constat6, surtDut au d6but, que peu de PME et BE marlbisaient les systSmes de
gestion des contrats, de gestion d'entreprises, des techniques de constructior,
dl'adducdon d'eau et routiEres, C'est pour cette raison que des sessions de formation
ont e dispentses aux cadres;
*  Des faiblesses ont 06 constat6es: mecanismes de concertation aux niveaux central,
prMfectoral et communal peu structur6s; manque d'expertise technique des niinisteres
et des collectivitfs locales au niveau du trraln; pauvre coordination de l'ensemble
des baiLleurs de fonds et des ministlres prenant au Projet;
*  D'une facon particulibre, une defaillance a &  constat6e chez la majorite des Agences
d'Encadrement (ONG internationales et locales) charges d!appuyer les promioteurs
dans le cadre des AGR. La consequence de leurs faibles capacites techiiques
caractrskes par un manque de suin des realisations et de la performance des ricro-
entreprises cr&es a eti le faible taux de realisation de prcets d'AGRI le faible taux de
rmboursement de credits et le dinournernent d'affectation des credits.
jStgre 8
*  Le manuel de procedures utilise pour le CRDP-PVK est celii qui avait 4tk pr6pare pour
le CRDP-Minaloc. Cependait, nnmme si lea ob$ectifs de ces deux projets sont idenfiques, it
y a beaucoup de dissemblances qui rendaient difficiles l'application des diffrentes
procdures dte ce umanuel la demande de noK-objection auprks de la Banque Miondiale
dtant n&cssaire tars de chaque cac d'inapplicaoion
* 11 avait ele pr6vu que l'Agent de DNveloppement Communautaire (ADC) soit affectW
auprbs du CDC, mais la r#aIit6 a fail que l'ADC soit au service du Projet. Ceci a eu
comme consequence que les rapports prisentks par I'ADC soient faits pour le compte du
Projet plutOt que du CDC;
*  Plusieurs activit6s ont ete rkaliskes avec des retards considtrables surtout A cause des
tongues proc6dures de passation de marchk au National Tender Board (NTB).
*  Concernant le syst-ime de passatiuons de marche particutiOrernent, ia Banque Mondiale
rnavait pas fixO un montant minimal pour lequel la non-objection n'dtait pas obligatoire
comme cela avait in* le cas pour le PNAS. Corollairenient A cette Situation, les
attributions du march6 devaient recevoit sa non-objection; et comme il ny a pas de
spOcialiste en passation de march6s a la Mission Rtsidente de Kigali, to"s les dossiers
devaient etre transnis a Bujumbura.
3.    Performance de la Danque Mndiale
*  Plusieurs fois par an, la Banque a envoyk des missions de supervision. Celles-ci ont
effectu4 des visitos de tenrain, ont mene des discussions avec les autoritls du pays et
diff6rents concern6s, se sont rendu compte de l'ktaL d'avanement du Projet et ont donne
leurs observations et reconmnandations a travers des aide-memoire, ce qui a itn d'une
grande utilite pour le bon avancemenit des activites d u Prqet;
vi
- 42 -



* Le suivi du Projet par la Banque a travers les audits financiers et techniques ainsit que
l'(valuation A mi-parcours et l'etude sur lPimpact socio-econonique du PNAS ont 6th
egalement d'une grande ulilil pour le bon avancernent et lamdlioration des actiitis du
Projet;
*  La Banque a tacilitW au BCP le dkcaissement des fonds, celui-.i sest effectue sans
probmnws unmjrs;
*  A la reformulationi du Projet apres la guerre et le gfnocide de 1994, la Banque aurait du
donner des orientations plus claires quant A la part quhe devaient avoir les diff6rents types
de sous-prets d' 'lnfTastructufe de base" en pr6cisant la part des sous-profet3 sociaux et
celle des sous-projets 6conomiques" (routes, march&-%, etc.).
cat6Gorie B
*  Sur demande du Gouvernement Rwandais, la Banque Mondiale a releve le plafond du
compte special qui est passe de USD 70.000 A USD 250.000;
*  Apres la date de cloture du Prlet, la Banque Mondtiale a accord6 un dilai de grace de 4
mois au Bureau de Coordination, ceci lw a pernis d'avoir le temps suffisant de cltrer
tous les dossiers;
*  La Batque Mondiale a donu  sa non-ot ection pour le recrutewnent dun comsultant
assistant a la gestion. celui-ci est entre en fonction au mois d'aodt 2000. Ce consultant a
reiforce I'quipe de coordination pour accomplir les thches urgentes de la p6riode de
cl6ture du Prc4et;
-  La date de cl6ture du Projet etant fiuxe au depart au 31 d&eembre 1999, Ia dur6e du Proet
a connu une extension et la cl6a,re a eu lieu le 31 cl&embre 2000. Etant donnc l'ampleur
des activit4s et la nouvelle approche du Projet qui devait etre suffisamrent expliquee A
la population, ta Banque Mondiale aurait dd ac-order une extension supplenientaire d'au
moins une annee, d'autant plus que la 1- date de cifture nYtait pas du tout r6aliste.
4.    Perfornmance de V'EtipruntsA4
*  Le Gouvememnent Rwandais a mntitu6 le cadre legal du PNAS par 'ArrOt4 du Premier
Ministre du 21 avnl 1993;
* Le Gouvernement a mis sur pied i un Conseil de Coordination du PNAS qui etait charg4
de d4finir et d'orienter la politique generale du Projet et d'en assurer la supervision. Le
Conseil a bien rempli ses fonctions;
Le Gouvemement a payr comnme contrepartie la sonmme de 65 millions de Frw en 1993,
depassant la sormn'e de 116 000 DEn  qui devait Otre pay6e d'aprfs le demnier amendement
de I'Accord de Credit (16. 12.1998);
*  I-es autoites du pays ont engage des poursuites judiciaires envers certains entreprepeurs
qui n'ont pas honord correctement leur contrat, particuliremient envers ceux qui riont
pas remun6re les ouvriers. Le CEPEX suit de trLs pres T'evolution des differents dossiers.
QC116garie 8
*  Le Gouvernement rnvandais a aide A la mise en pLace des conitWs de developpement
cornmunautaire qui sont des organes decentralis6s de Itadministration A I'4cheWon local.
Les CDC des secteurs ont W la base nmme des realisations des activit6s du Projet CRDP-
PVK;
*  T.a PVK a nnis A la disposition des CDC et de la population b6ndficiaire des parcelles pour
l'nstallation des infrastructures (Extension de l'Ecole Primaire de Gasave, Construction
vii
- 43 -



de l'Ecole Matemelle de Kamuhoza) et eUle at fsdlitt au secteur Kagugu l'acquisition du
terrain ot la salle polyvalente a tt costruit.;
*  Avec l'aide du Ministe chargg des Travaux Publics, la PVK a amenage la route qui
m6ne A la nouvelI 'cole matemelle de Kantuhoza et elle a participe aux travaux de
terrassernent powu la contruction de cette kcole;
  Le Gouvernement rwandais, A travers le Ministere des Finances tA de la Planif)cation
Economique (Minecofin), le Minasthre de FAdministration Locale et des Affaires Sociales
(Minaloc), le Bureau Central des Projets et du Fi,iancement Exterieur (CEPEX) et
particulirenment I'Administration de la Prefecture de la Ville de Kigali (IJK), a suivi de
pr&s et nigulierement lexecution du Projet, et a dorune des suggestions et conseils visaL
le bon avancementt des activites.
S.    Durabilite et Viabilite des g6alisatiorm du Projet
D'une faKon grn#rale, le PNAS a r6alise solidement ses travaux, particulikrement dans le
cadre du volet "Infrastructures de base". Les r6alisations du PNAS, vu leur qualite, pourrant
slitement Otre utlisables pendant plusicurs anrees. Pourtant il sera n&essaire que la
population berfiaire continue A Otre organiske et sensibilis6e de faqon b supporter les
charges r&urrentes et l'entretien r6gulier des infrastructures: ereation de comit6s de parents
actifs pour les koles, creation de regies et de comit6s de consonmuateurs pour les adductions
d'eau et les sources am6nag&es, etc. Dans la plupart des communes, ces systemes existent et
sont operationnels.
Parni les petites entreprises qui ont particip6 aux diffOrents travaux de r6habilitation, il y en
a celles qui ont le potentiel de devenir de moyetnes entreprises et de la contribuer davantage
au developpement econoniique du pays.
De plus, les cadres des PME et BE form6s ont acquis des connaissances qui leur ont permis
d'amrliorer durablement leur perfornance technique.
Comme cela est exphque ailleurs danm ce document, 1'&hec relatif du systeme "Activites
GMenratrices des Revenus1 d0it trouver tune solution A une echelle plus Mlevee: des rffle,ions,
des concertations devraie.nt Qtre menkes au niveAu natioual pour mnettre sur pied un systeme
efficace et efficient de petit credits A octroyer au monde rural.
Cot6aorie 8
*  L'approche appliqu&e lors de rexecution est celle de la dcentrahisation et de la
participation communautaire qui est prOnOe par le Gouvernement rwandais. A travers
cette approche, la population b6ndficiaire participe directement a la prise de d&cision et a
la r6alisatdon de ses propres prWets de developpement, et par-IA elle se sent plus motivke
et responsabilis&e que dans lc pas. En plus, les fonnations -de bonne qualit6 et bieo
approprikes pour ic developpement A la base- que les mnembres des CDC ont reiues
devraient etre utiles A long terme movennant quelques sessions de recyclage et de
rafratchissenient;
*  Les infrastructures nouvellement construites sont solides at les travaux ont 6W en
gneral bien ex6rutes. Les ben6ficiaires rnalrisent dejk le systwne de gestion des kcoles
primaires, les comit0s des parents et de direction Mant en place. Par exemple pour lh4cole
maternelle de Kamuhoza. les bWnficiaires ont JAjA nris sur pied un syst4me de gestion
tout A fait particulier et qui apparemment, fonctionne tr6.s bier. Quant A la salle
polyvalente de Kagugu, il faudra ahsolumient que lea responsables administratifs a tous
viii
- 44 -



les &helons veiTlent A ce que les b&i4ficiaires accomplissent leurs pronesses, en
particulier il faudra qulun syst6me d'approvisionnement en eau pour la salle soit installe
au plus vite, sinon la salubritk nkessaire pour un le] edifice ne sera pas garantie.
Conune dans d'autres projets similaires, un systeme de micro-credit r4ellement
fonctionnel n'a pas pu Otre mis en place et, avec la cl6ture du projet, il ne paralt pas
probable que e Londs de d4veloppement comnmunautaire puisse voir le jour. 11 faudra
des efforts exceptionnels de la part des membres des CDC pour recouvrer les credits d6ja
octroyes et les red istribuet. Les autorit&s adn-inistratives sup6rieures devront y jouer Uil
grand role.
Dans 1'ensernble, la viabil;ite des r6alisations du aCDP-PVK danm les 5 secteurs semble
garantic, la population binificiaire ayant rMellement contribuw aux activit6s de le-ur misw Pn
place. Particuliarement les infrastructures socio4conomiques seront utiles A long terme, leur
systWme de gestion etant bien maItrisi par les binficiaires. Les acquis des sessions de
formation semblent egalement pouvoir #tre utis pour d'autres activites de planification -
msme domestiques, comme cela nous a et indiqal& moyennant quelques sessions de
rafraichissement. Lc domaine du micro-credit devrait vcuir le systime am6lIorM et, cornme il a
et4 propose pour d'autres projets. des concertations devraient etre men4es au niveau national
pour mettre sur pied un systeme efficace et efficient de petits credits a odtroyer au monde
rural et aux petites associations,
6.    Leeons tirecs et Recomandations
 Un Fonds Social d'Urgence tel quewK celui qui a 'tA mis sur pied par le PNAS n'est pas
necessairement l'instrument le plus approprik pour faire le type de crit "AGR' s'il ne
trouve pas de partenaires de rel"is capables, comp6tents, motvAs et viables. De plus, il
n'est pas conseilk de faire ce programme de credit en rAgpe, parce que d'une part cela
n6cessite heaucoup de personnel pour assurer un suivi rapprochA indispensable pour
reussir et que, d'autre part, les credits sont en principe beaucoup m;ieux geres par des
institutions plus proches de ta population tlles que les  anues Populaires et les
Conmit6s de Developpement Coinnunautaire (CDC).
L'efficacite et Putilite des Agences d'Encadrement devraient Otre serieusement evalu&es
avant de leur confier des thches telks que celles du domaine des "ActivitAs GMerratrices
des Revenus';
*  Ie PNAS a pu Atablir un bilan globalement positif en particulier dans les doamunes
dinfrastructures communales de petite et moyertne taille faisant appel aux PME et aux
BE locaux. Partant de cette experence, une nouvelle structure permanente du type
"Agence d'Ex&ution de Travaux d'InterAt Public" (AGETIP) devrait etre mise sur pied
pour continuer dans la r-nme voie, Une alternative au systome d'exkcution de travaux A
travers uime AGEI'IP serait une impfication plus Intensifie des CDC des communes, en
leur pourvoyant de moyens de travail ainsi que d'une formation n&essaires;
* La formation, l'information et la concertation doivent Atre utilisees pour rendre plus
efficaces les operateurs pnves et pour ama*liorer leurs relations de partenariat avec les
admninistrations;
* Certains sous-projets devraient etre adaptes a la realitA du milieu, par exemple le type de
marchOs ruraux ne devrait pas 6tre absolument le meBme que celui des marches construits
en ville,
45 -



* Au niveau national les responsables communaux devraient etre encore rnieux &clairts et
informes tout au long du cycle d'un tel projet pour qu'ils puissent en btn6fider d'une
faoon plus equitable;
* 11 serait tr*s utile de prevoir des installations pour recueillr les caux de pluie, plus
particuliOrement dans les regions arides comme l'Umutara. Egalement les bureaux des
directeurs des centres scolaires devraient Otte prevus dans les plans des constructions,
*  Une comnission devrait atre mise sur pied pour faire le suivi des litiges et de tous les
autres dossiers non achevts, du remboursement des petits credits octroy6s dans le cadre
de la collaboration avec le MIGEFASO (les sommes rembours6es devraient fte vers*es
au Tresor Public) - le CEPEX a d4ji commenLe k entreprendre cette action.
Cat6gone 8
* Les fornmations dispensees aux nmembres des CDC ont W apprkclies par les b6n6flciaires
et par les autorit6s. les r6sultats se sont fait sentir au niveau de l'elabora lion des plans de
d4veloppement. II est souhaitable que ces fornations soient complMtees par des sessions
de recyclage et de rafrajchissement en y incluant des modules compl6mentaires;
*  Les meilleurs resultats ayant etc constatt dam les secteurs oCi les membres des CDC
travaillent avec beaucoup d'abnfgation et de d6vouement. les autorits admninistatives
sup6rieures devxaient davantage en prendre compte lons des cainpagnes de
sensibilisation de ia population et du choix de candidats aux diffkents postes;
* II est souhaitable que les documents et plans de d6veloppement comnmunautaire soient
traduits en kinyarwanda afin qu'iLs soient cotnpris de la mfte faqon pat tons les
b6n6iiciaires;
*  Les membres des CDC devenant de plus en plus sollicies dans le cadre de l'execution
des projets de d&velopperrent, un syst6me de travail les rendant plus disponibles devrait
etre etudie par le Gouvenement, 6ventuellenent un systeme qui leur accorderait des
hmoluments pour le travail effectue. 1Yautre part, vu l'indisporubilitd souvent observoe
des mnembres des CDC, la possibilite de mettre en place un "secr6tariat' permnanent des
CDC devrait stre 0tudike;
*  Dans la mesure du poosible, los  ~ikes devraient ftre plus impliques dans toutes
les Gtapes de 1'ex&ution de sous-projets des la phase de preparation (cahiers des charges,
passation de marches) pusqu'A la phase de l'execution des travaux. Etant associes, ils
comrprendraient rnieux les u*canismes et les complexit,s de Nexkution des projets, et
cela pourrait aussi les inciter i accroltre leur niveau de participation;
*  Le Prejet CRDP-.IK ayant OtX r6alise comne profet-pilote ceuvrant seulement dans six
secteurs, et en considerant les resultats atteints particuliWereent concemrant la
prcparafion des plans de developpement cornrmunautaire et le 'reveil" des CDC des
secteurs concernes, la PVK, avec l'appui du Gouvemernent, devrait prendre contact avec
les bailleurs de fonds pour 1'ex6cution d'un projet sinilaire couvrant tous has secteurs de
la PVK.
-46 -



Additional Annex 9. Beneficiary Survey Methodlology and Results
Methodology
The Beneficiary Assessment (BA) brought together project stakeholders and initiated dialogue based on a
predetermined set of issues. For the PNAS beneficiary assessment, stakeholders included beneficiaries -
those using or receiving services, or have done so in the past - in addition to commune elders, leaders, local
administration, and those associated with NGOs, HIMO, or PMEs, etc. BA techniques included participant
observation and conversational interviews. The BA examined whether the PNAS project fulfilled the basic
minimum needs of the population (outlined below), in relation to the objectives established by the project.
This was assessed by reviewing the project's effect on:
*   Agriculture: grazing, arable cropping, agro-forestry, irrigation (in relation to food security and AGR).
*   Use of natural resources like forests, swamps, valleys and water resources for agricultural purposes,
other income-generating activities (AGR, reforestation/infrastructure).
*   Social and economic infrastructure: schools, rural health centers, water supply and sanitation, roads,
bridges, etc (infrastructure/public works).
*   Any other, like requirements for small-scale enterprises or income generating activities (AGR).
Information on basic minimum needs was collected by utilizing ranking (benefits, problems, wealth) and
mapping exercises (community, personal, institutional) and trend analysis (history of events). The key
issues assessed whether PNAS was able to meet the needs of the community in an effective, expedient, and
sustainable way; and if it was able to target the mostl vulnerable groups (i.e., women, widows, orphans,
victims of AIDS, etc). The BA tried to solicit recommendations from the commune members for future
project improvement. The BA also assessed the level of involvement of the beneficiaries in the projects.
Criteria for Selection
To facilitate site visits and the implementation of the beneficiary assessment (BA), sites were selected
where there was a general overlap of project activity i.e., in neighboring communes where all three types of
activities occurred: infrastructure, micro-credit, and PAN (see Annex 1). An effort was made to choose a
broad cross-section of prefectures, thus giving the beneficiary assessment more national coverage (out of
12 prefectures, BAs were conducted in 5).
The number of each project type to be evaluated was chosen according representative numbers of each
project type completed (see Annex 2), and to gather a broad perspective of each of the activities covered.
Thus, for the 20 sites visited, there is the following breakdown among the three major components:
*   Ten infrastructure sub-project sites were visited
*   Six Micro-credit activities sites were visited
*   Four site visits were made on PAN activities.
- 47 -



Additional Annex 10. Aide-Memoire - Food Security and Social Action Project (PNAS)
Aide-Mkmoire
Food Security and Social Action Project (PNAS)
Kigali, June 9, 2000
From May 20 to June 9, 2000 a World Bank mission visited Rwanda to advance preparation of the
Implementation Completion Review (ICR) of the Food Security and Social Action Project (PNAS). The
mission also addressed issues outstanding from the financial audit for 1998. The mission was led by Mr.
Markus Kostner (Task Manager) and comprised Mr. Toni Kayonga (operations) and Ms. Michelle Cullen
(social analysis). The mission would like to thank staff at CEPEX, the Government counterpart responsible
for the project's review, for their collaboration and joint effort.
1.    Financial audit for 1998
All outstanding issues raised in raised in the Aide-Memoire of September 17, 1999 have either been, or are
being resolved. The mission commends CEPEX on the work achieved. Specifically:
I.    The Government has acknowledged that documentation for 427.4 million FRw spent during the
year ending December 31, 1994 was destroyed during the war and will thus not be found. This file has been
closed.
2.     The audit report 1998 states that counterpart funds for the year ending December 31, 1996 remain
to be paid. However, according to the last DCA amendment (December 16, 1998), the only counterpart
contribution was 20% for local expenses under category 2, which closed on December 31, 1998 after
spending about SDR 580,000. This would imply a maximum contribution of SDR 116,000. According to
the 1995 audit report, the government paid FRw 65 million in 1993 as counterpart contribution, easily
exceeding the necessary amount. There thus does not appear to be any counterpart contribution
outstanding. This file will also be closed.
3.     The auditors identified some outstanding debits incurred to suppliers in 1994. Government could
verify the claim of only one supplier (La Rwandaise), worth 4,219,351 FRw. This claim will be paid
through category 8 as agreed upon between the Govermment and the Bank in the amendment of December
16, 1998.
4.     The PNAS project duly paid the contracting agencies in Gikongoro, who in turn did not pay local
workers. MINECOFIN has brought this file to court. A decision is pending.
5.     Regarding the loans for income-generating activities that have not been repaid, 22 cases have been
handled by MINECOFIN's lawyer. Judgements have been passed on ten of these cases, in favor of
MINECOFIN. A decision for two cases is pending. Twelve files are for debtors whose address is not
known; CEPEX continues to investigate.
I/ The findings and recommendations of the mission are subject to senior Bank management review. Any changes will be
communicated to the Government without delay.
-48 -



6.    The PNAS project agreed with WFP to pay 50% of transport costs under the PAN component. An
amount of approximately US$ 25,000 is still outstanding from an advance made by PNAS. CEPEX
submitted relevant documentation to WFP and awaits their response.
2.    Government review by CEPEX
CEPEX has constituted a team to review the PNAS project. The team's activities are, among others, to:
visit various project sites; conduct a basic inventory of project materials and works completed; review
remaining files; and conduct interviews with those involved. This review is being conducted independently
of the Bank's review, and a draft will be submitted by early July.
Given the lack of documentation both in the field office and in Washington, the mission requested CEPEX
to pursue a number of outstanding issues, including: a review of studies completed for PNAS infrastructure
and AGR projects; the provision of copies of the training manuals to other projects; an examination of how
many of the infrastructure projects that were built are still functional, and how these are functioning; and
an examination of how many of the NGOs and cooperatives that were formed during the project are still
operating.
3.    Next steps
Categories 1-7
a   CEPEX to submit PNAS project review draft for categories 1-7 by July 15, 2000.
a  MINECOFIN to continue to pursue outstanding legal and financial matters as highlighted above.
*   By July 31, 2000 category 8 to settle accounts with La Rwandaise in the amount of 4,219,351 FRw,
and to transfer to the Treasury 9,094,528 FRw for salaries not claimed from before the war.
*   Bank to complete ICR draft for categories 1-7 by July 15, 2000.
*   Bank to harmonize drafts by August 30, 2000.
Category 8
*   The PVK Bureau de Coordination as implementing unit of category 8 to recruit two consultants
(implementation review, beneficiary assessment) by October 1, 2000.
*   Consultants to complete evaluation reports by December 15, 2000.
- 4'3 -



Additional Annex 11. Aide-Memoire - Pilot Community Development Project /PVK
Aide-Mkmoire
Pilot Community Development Project /PVK
Kigali, March 19, 2001
A World Bank mission visited Rwanda between March 12-19, 2001 to undertake the implementation
completion review mission of the PNAS project, including: (i) a review of activities carried out under
category 8 during the final quarter of operation (October-December 2000) and of the final evaluation of
category 8 undertaken by independent consultants, (ii) a discussion of the final steps for closing the project,
and (iii) a discussion of the draft ICR.
The mission comprised Mmes./Messrs. Markus Kostner (mission leader), Toni Kayonga and Antoinette
Kamanzi  (operations),  and   Juvenal   Nzambimana   and   Claudine   Fundi   (financial
management/disbursement). The mission would like to thank CEPEX and PNAS staff for their close
collaboration. The main observations are as follows.   This aide-memoire is subject to Bank
management review. Any changes will be communicated to the Government without delay.
I .    Category 8
The mission and CEPEX undertook an initial review of category 8 activities and concurred with the
consultant's findings that it achieved its objective of testing participation and decentralization approaches
in an urban setting. Although community mobilization proved more complex than in rural areas because of
constraints of CDC members in terms of availability, progressive participation is taking root. The
population in the six pilot sectors in PVK, in which the level of poverty is equal to if not higher than in
many rural areas, very much appreciates the way it was involved in the process. The capacity building
activities undertaken at inception proved most appropriate. All but one infrastructure sub-project were
executed on time and generally in good quality.
Problems with sub-projects occurred in only one sector, which also implemented the only micro-project
activity. Project implementation encountered several difficulties emanating from the use of the CRDP
implementation manual, several provisions of which were not applied because of the small scale and limited
duration of category 8. It was acknowledged that otherwise, far greater investments into capacity building
would have had to be undertaken. This limited to some degree community ownership over both the process
and outcome. For instance, financial management.and sub-project design were undertaken by the PVK
rather than the CDCs.
Further problems arose from the fact that the amounts allocated per sector ($100,000) were insufficient to
cover their priority needs, which were mainly in water. As a result, CDCs had to reprioritize, which not
only took time but also partly diminished their motivation. Allocations should also have differed by a
sector's absorption capacity. In addition, some communication problems arose between the Bureau de
Coordination/PVK and the CDCs. Nevertheless, all those involved felt that the general approach was
appropriate.
- 50 -



2.     PNAS Closing
The mission noted with satisfaction that closing procedlures as set out in the aide-memoire of October 13,
2000 have been followed properly: (i) the salaries and bills outstanding to staff and contractors from before
the war have been paid; (ii) CEPEX has reached agreement with CARE and WFP for the payment of
workers in Gikongoro and of transport costs incurred for the PAN component, respectively; (iii) the
external evaluations were undertaken before closing as planned, and the final audit report is expected for
mid-April; and (iv) recovery procedures for the special account have been discussed and agreed upon.
3.    ICR Draft
CEPEX deemed the Bank's ICR draft well researched, exhaustive, and well written. CEPEX felt that the
evolution of the PNAS project was appropriate and responded to the emerging country situation (mitigating
social effects of structural adjustment [91-93]; post-war reconstruction [95-97]; decentralized,
community-based development [98-00]). CEPEX provided technical comments to the mission which will be
duly taken into account in the revised ICR.
4.     Next Steps
*   CEPEX will merge its two reports on categories 1-7 and category 8 into a single assessment of the
PNAS project; April 15, 2001.
* The Bank will revise and finalize the ICR on the basis of comments received; May 31, 2001.
- 51 -






MAP SECT'ION






-20au                                        29o00                                        2930'       j                                3200'                                       3230'
_w=oo                                                                                                                    )_ /J-=
UGANDA
>~~~~           ~                ~~~~~~~~                                   A N Z A \        AZN I A
RWANDA
DEM. REP                                    iDD /.
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           OF CONGO   j  -                            N                  (AKAGERA
PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                            WRUNA akeNAL 
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                  /         HAll       NY, N                     NYByumba                                                   PARK
MAIN ROADS                                                     /'AYYYYYAA                      TEA          NA FSFjF'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                        A                 A     A         CA O                                                              ) A  N
f / f~~~~~~~~~ \                                               CSNK    OATlF       'LI AJASX ONCO  C,    NlB NLr0rrA
5"Y'                                                              La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ke
K (W   X    KAYOV   CASEY  N         F1NFN s   \      7ur N4GIroL EYCI         JIKR           NLake
LAKE  iKPI                  E          '                      I      N                   YOFONC
-  00'                                                                                                                                                                                              I      `C -NA  A  YYNF2 30'
COY CO  E5
_Cy                            tW;onAMBIQu Gii YES   On goro                          r:,r 
- 2130'                        "RE IN.GEM      ~NGWE                                                                                                                                                2900'  ' -
ND                                           FOREST                                     H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YAOC 
GISHO                                               RUWIN~~~~~~M(OOAYA                        BURUN D
D        TAN                                                                                                            GiSKNY  ''~N 
REAPORS
CONG    Taegaaika
DEM. REP                                                                                                                                                           This trap -asAreard bythe hMop 
'a                                          I                            -                                     , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~0Desig Unit.oTh World Bak. 
ZAMBIA  .n~~~w  OF   CONGO                             1..~~~~........    .             '                KILOMETERS  5   5  10  15  20  20  20  25  40ETERS  45  50   and0'2-30"3540  colorTh. den-nmino,sconi-ti
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              MILES 0  2  10  15  2'0 25  30 The.oldBn Group, anyjuget
any endo-sement or accopt-e of such
'0                                                  YY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9oYY                 29230'    7                                  2900'                                       39a' o   telglsan  fnytriyo



