Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2388 RW
             (Food Security and Social Action Project)
                              between
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 12, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2388 RW
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1992, between the RWANDESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 28, 1992
from the Borrower describing a program of policies, objectives,
actions and resource allocations designed to achieve certain social
objectives (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the carrying out of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower has received from World Food Program (WFP)
a grant (the WFP Grant) in an amount equivalent to $15,900,000 to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the WFP Grant Agreement) entered into between
the Borrower and WFP;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to $3,100,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to receive from other sources other
grants to assist in financing the Project and the Program; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCP" means Bureau de Coordination du Programme National
d'Action Sociale;
      (b)   "Cellule HIMO" means Cellule de Haute Intensite de Main
d'Oeuvre, the executing agency for Part B of the Project;
      (c)   "MIJEUMA" means the Ministry of Youth and Associative
Movement of the Borrower;
      (d)   "MINEPRISEC" means the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education of the Borrower;
      (e)   "MINISANTE" means the Ministry of Health of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "MININTER" means the Ministry of Interior and of
Communal Development of the Borrower;
      (g)   "MINIPLAN" means the Ministry of Planning of the
Borrower;
      (h)   "MINITRAPE" means the Ministry of Public Works and
Energy of the Borrower;
      (i)   "MINITRASO" means the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs of the Borrower;
      (j)   "NGO" means Non Governmental Organization;
      (k)   "PNAS" means Programme National d'Action Sociale, the
Borrrower's National Social Action Program;
      (l)   "CDC" means the Project Coordinating Council of PNAS;
      (m)   "ONAPO" means Office National de la Population;
      (n)   "PIC" means Programme d'Investissements Communal, the
three year rolling Labor Based Works investment program prepared by
the communes;
      (o)   "Social Sector Public Expenditure Program" means the
Borrower's public expenditure program for its health and primary and
secondary education sectors and for ONAPO and PNAS;
      (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
Page  3
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 28, 1992 and March
20, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social,
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02 (a) Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 3.01 (a), the Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budgets
amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to the
costs of the Project; (ii) open and maintain, until the completion
of the Project, a Project Account in a commercial bank in the name
of BCP to be used exclusively for expenditures under the Project;
(iii) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent
to $450,000 (the Initial Deposit) and (iv) thereafter, at the
beginning of each quarter, deposit into the Project Account
(commencing from the quarter immediately following the quarter in
which this Agreement becomes effective), the amount estimated to be
required during such quarter to cover the expenditures for the
Project which are not covered by withdrawals from the Credit Account
Page  5
or from contributions from other donors.
      (b)   the Borrower's counterpart contributions under paragraph
(a) of this Section will be assessed on the basis of the consolidat-
ed action plan to be submitted to the Association in accordance with
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall submit to the Association,
not later than October 31 of each year a Social Sector Public
Expenditure Program for the coming three years acceptable to the
Association. In addition, the Borrower shall submit to the Associa-
tion, not later than June 30 of each year of the Project, a detailed
review of the implementation of the Social Sector Public Expenditure
Program during the previous year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall submit to the Association
quarterly audit reports on actual non-salary spending of MINISANTE,
MINEPRISEC, MINIPLAN (for PNAS) and ONAPO. These audit reports shall
be prepared by independent auditors in accordance with appropriate
audit principles and shall be submitted within 4 months following
the end of each quarter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof, including the BCP and the executing agencies
referred to in Schedule 4, paragraph 6, to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than 6 months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Page  6
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or
suspension of the activities of the CDC, the BCP or any of the
executing agencies, or shall in any other way, through its acts or
omissions, have adversely affected the ability of any of these
institutions to fully carry out their responsibilities under the
Project.
      (b)   The implementation of the Program shall have been
suspended or terminated or shall have materially deviated from such
Program as defined in paragraph (B) of the Preamble to this
Agreement.
      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                  ceeds of the WFP Grant or the UNDP Grant, made to
                  the Borrower for the financing of the Project,
                  shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminat-
                  ed in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                  the WFP or the UNDP Grant Agreement.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
                  sion, cancellation or termination is not caused
                  by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                  its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur;
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(c) (ii) of that Section; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  7
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  addition-
al conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that:
      (a)   establishment of CDC and BCP and selection and appoint-
ment of key staff for the positions referred to in paragraphs 4 and
14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been completed;
      (b)   the Borrower's Social Sector Public Expenditure Program
for 1993-95 has been received and approved by the Association;
      (c)   the Association has received from the Borrower, and
approved, a training program for the purposes of Part B.2 of the
Project;
      (d)   the Project Account has been opened and the Initial
Deposit deposited therein;
      (e)   the Borrower has established an accounting system for
PNAS satisfactory to the Association; and
      (f)   the standard bidding documents used by the Borrower in
its procurement of labor-based works, goods and services has been
approved by the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            B. P. 46
            Kigali, Rwanda
                                          Fax:
                                            250 75719
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
                        RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Aloys Uwimana
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                6,200,000      100%
(2)   Equipment,                 3,300,000      100% of foreign
      Materials                                 expenditures and
      and Supplies:                             80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Training and Studies         220,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(4)   Consultants' Services      1,000,000      100%
(5)   Operating Costs              730,000      100%
(6)   Refunding of                 950,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                1,600,000
                                __________
        TOTAL                   14,000,000
                                ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Operating Costs" means incremental costs for
vehicle and equipment maintenance, repair and operation of the
Executing Agencies and BCP.
Page  9
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            Schedule 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the food
security and social welfare of the poorest population groups; (b) to
improve the government's capability to monitor living standards of
the population; and (c) to initiate a long-term poverty alleviation
strategy.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modification thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Food Aid and Nutrition
1.    Purchase of food and distribution thereof to malnourished
mothers, children and AIDS victims, orphans and the destitute
elderly.
2.    Support to the national nutrition program through:
      (a)   definition of activities to be carried out by nutrition
centers;
      (b)   training and supervision of staff of nutrition centers
involved in Part A of the Project;
      (c)   establishment of a national nutrition monitoring system.
3.    Establishment and operation of a rapid response system for
acute food shortage situations.
4.    Preparation of a Food Aid Charter in support of the develop-
ment of a coherent food aid policy and the monitoring of the use
thereof.
Part B:    Labor Based Works
1.    Carrying out of Labor Based Works in the 43 poorest communes
in the country already identified (and in other communes to be
determined during Project implementation up to an amount not
exceeding 10% of cost of this Part of the Project). Labor Based
works to be carried out are:
      (a)   communal road rehabilitation and maintenance;
      (b)   anti-erosion (including reforestation) and land
improvement measures; and
      (c)   other public works in rural communes as well as in urban
areas.
2.    Training of small and medium-scale private enterprises and
NGOs to enable them to participate in Labor Based Works.
3.    Strengthening of the communal administrations' capacity to
plan small-scale private investments through preparation and
revision of PICs.
Part C:     Micro-Enterprise Promotion and Development
      The promotion and assisting in the creation of potentially
profitable micro-enterprises in rural areas in order to generate
productive non-agricultural employment, through:
1.    the creation of awareness amongst target populations of the
Page  10
potential for more lucrative off-farm employment opportunities;
2.    the identification of potential entrepreneurs and ideas for
productive purposes through NGOs;
3.    training of entrepreneurs involved in said micro enterprises;
4.    assistance to entrepreneurs in the obtaining of financing; and
5.    monitoring of assisted micro enterprises.
Part D:    Social Surveys
      The establishment and implementation of a welfare monitoring
system with a view to strengthening the Borrower's capacities to:
(1) monitor the living standards of the population through socio-
economic surveys and studies; and (2) elaborate relevant social
policies and strategies.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, vehicles
and supplies shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Rwanda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that, should
such procedures fail to attract a capable contractor willing to
execute such works, direct contracting may be used for works
estimated to cost less than $60,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding $4,300,000.
2.    Materials, estimated to cost between the equivalent of
$100,000 and $300,000 per contract, may, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,600,000, be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Furniture and office supplies, estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $15,000 or less per contract, may, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  11
4.    Contracts for the maintenance, repair and operation of
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or less per contract may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and all direct contracts for civil
works up to September 30, 1995, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management
1.    The BCP, to be established within MINIPLAN pursuant to Section
6.01 (a) of this Agreement, shall be responsible for the overall
coordination and implementation of the Project. The BCP shall be
directly accountable to the Project Coordinating Counsel (CDC). The
day-to-day management of the implementation of the various parts of
the Project shall be delegated to separate executing agencies in
accordance with paragraph 6 of this Schedule.
2.    The CCP, to be established pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement, shall consist of representatives of MINIPLAN,
MININTER, MIJEUMA, MINITRASO, MINEPRISEC, MINITRAPE, MINISANTE, the
Page  12
Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Handicrafts, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, the
Ministry of Environment and Tourism, the Ministry of Family and the
Promotion of Women, NGOs and other donors. The Borrower shall
operate the CDC under terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-
tion that shall include:
      (a)   coordination among all donors involved in the Project;
      (b)   appointment and dismissal of the BCP staff;
      (c)   determination of the strategies underlying the implemen-
tation of the Project within the framework of the overall objectives
thereof.
3.    The Borrower shall operate the BCP, through MINIPLAN, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association that shall include:
      (a)   review and approval of the executing agencies' annual
work programs and budgets;
      (b)   preparation of an annual consolidated action plan,
budget and execution timetable covering all parts of the Project;
      (c)   coordination with the ministries involved in the
Project.
      (d)   management of disbursement procedures including the
Special Account.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that key positions at the BCP shall
at all times be staffed by staff whose experience and qualifications
are acceptable to the Association, including a Director, a Financial
Manager and a Procurement Specialist.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure the submission by the BCP to the
Association for its approval of the annual consolidated action plan
(including a budget and an execution timetable) for the next year no
later than October 31 of each year.
6.    The following agencies will be the executing agencies for the
various parts of the Project:
      Part A:      The Executive Office of the Food Security and
                   Nutrition Program within MINITRASO.
      Part B:      The Cellule HIMO, within MININTER.
      Part C:      The Executive Office of the Basic Initiatives
                   Support Program, within MIJEUMA.
      Part D:      The General Directorate of Statistics within
                   MINIPLAN.
Project Monitoring and Review
7.    Project monitoring will take place under the overall responsi-
bility of the BCP and will assess the financial and physical
progress of the various parts of the Project. Data will be collected
by the executing agencies on the basis of indicators acceptable to
the Association. These data will be transmitted to the BCP on a
quarterly basis. The BCP will consolidate these data into an annual
progress report to be submitted to the National Project Committee of
PNAS and the Association annually not later than June 30 of each
year.
8.    This annual progress report shall include:
      (a)   a review of the status of all monitoring indicators
against targets set in the annual work programs;
      (b)   a general assessment of the progress towards the
Page  13
achievement of the Project and lessons learned during the past year;
      (c)   procurement for all Project parts financed by the
Association;
      (d)   disbursement for each part of the Project;
      (e)   identification of implementation problems and the
proposed remedial actions; and
      (f)   a review of actual unit costs quoted under LCB and
direct contracting.
9.    The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a joint mid-
term review of the Project not later than September 30, 1995 and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association not later than June 30,
1995, the reports and other inputs necessary for such review. The
terms of reference of the review shall include:
      (a)   the impact of the various parts of the Project on target
groups at the community level;
      (b)   the requirement to revise the initial targeting;
      (c)   the performance of the BCP and the executing agencies;
      (d)   the coordination with the ministries;
      (e)   actual unit costs quoted under LCB and direct contract-
ing, which will serve as a basis for future decisions concerning
direct contracting; and
      (f)   an assessment of the sustainability of the Project;
      (g)   recommendations for the second phase of the Project
implementation.
Part B of the Project
10.   The communal administrations, with support from the Cellule
HIMO, will prepare an exhaustive inventory including preliminary
cost estimates of all potential Labor Based Works in their communes
for the period 1993 through 1995. On the basis thereof the communal
councils will vote and establish their PIC's. The PIC's will be
submitted to the Cellule HIMO by January 1, 1993. The Cellule HIMO
can request supplementary information until February 15, 1993 and
shall submit an annual action program incorporating all the PIC's
(or the revised PIC's if the Cellule HIMO deems revision appro-
priate) to the BCP no later than March 31, 1993 for its approval.
The BCP shall establish the annual action program (including any
revisions the BCP deems appropriate) no later than April 30, 1993.
11.   The PIC will be reviewed annually by the communal administra-
tions and if necessary revised and resulting in a revision of the
annual work program approved by BCP following, mutatis mutandis, the
timetable given above.
12.   The selection by the BCP and the Cellule HIMO of projects to
be included in the annual work and action programs shall be in
accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
13.   The Cellule HIMO, the executing agency for Part B of the
Project, will consist of three technical units (roads, forests and
other works) and one unit for administration and finance. The
Borrower shall operate the Cellule HIMO under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association that shall include the authority to
procure goods and services subject to regular audits only.
14.   The Borrower shall ensure that key positions at the Cellule
HIMO shall at all times be staffed by staff whose experience and
qualifications are acceptable to the Association, including the
Page  14
Director and chiefs for each of the four units mentioned in
paragraph 13 above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  15
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as theAssociation may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
