Page  1
March 14, 1995
H.E. Marc Rugenera
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Excellency:
Credit No. 2388 RW (Food Security and Social Action Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
      We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit
Agreement (the Agreement), dated August 12, 1992, between the
Rwandese Republic (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association) and your letter,
dated February 14, 1995, requesting some amendments to the
Agreement. The Association agrees to the request and hereby
proposes to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.    Article 1:
      The following new paragraphs are added in Section 1.02
of the Agreement:
      "(r) 'MINIFIN' means the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower;
      "(s) 'MINIRESO' means the Ministry of Rehabilitation and
Social Integration of the Borrower."
2.    Article 7:
      The words "Minister of Planning" in Section 7.01 shall be
replaced by the words "Minister of Finance".
      The address in Section 7.02 shall be amended to read as
follows:
                 "Ministry of Finance
                   P.O. Box 158
                   Kigali
                   Rwandese Republic
                                  Telex: 22687 MINIFIN-RW
                                  Facsimile: 77581"
3.    Schedule 2:
      The heading in Part B of Schedule 2 is amended to read
as follows:
      Part B: þLabor Based Works and Micro-Projectsþ
4.    Schedule 4:
      The word "MINIPLAN" in paragraph 1 is replaced by
"MINIFIN".
      Paragraph 2 is replaced as follows:
      "The CDC, to be established pursuant to Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement, shall consist of representatives of MINIFIN,
MINIPLAN, MININTER, MINITRASO, MINEPRISEC, MINITRAPE,
MINISANTE, MINIRESO and the NGOs involved in the implementation
of the Project. The Borrower shall operate the CDC under terms
of reference acceptable to the Association that shall include:
Page  2
      (a) approval of budgets and annual work program;
      (b) approval of the Procedures Manual for Part B of the
Project; and
      (c) determination of the strategies related to  the
implementation of the Project within the framework of the
overall objectives thereof."
      The word "MINIPLAN" in paragraph 3 is replaced by
"MINIFIN".
      Paragraph 4 is replaced as follows:
      "The Borrower shall ensure that key positions at the BCP
shall at all times be staffed by staff whose experience and
qualifications are acceptable to the Association, including a
Director, two engineers, a loan accountant, a procurement
specialist and a project management expert."
      Paragraph 6 is replaced as follows:
      "The following agencies will be the executing agencies for
the various parts of the Project:
      Part A:  MINISANTE
      Part B:  BCP through NGOs and communes
      Part C:  BCP through NGOs and communes
      Part D:  The Directorate of Statistics within MINIPLAN"
      The words "National Project Committee of PNAS" in
paragraph 7 are amended to read "MINIFIN".
      The words "September 30, 1995" and "June 30, 1995" in
paragraph 9 are amended to read "September 30, 1997" and "June
30, 1997" respectively.
      The words "at the community level" in paragraph 9(a) are
deleted.
      Paragraph 9(b) is amended to read as follows:
      "(b) impact of labor-based works and micro-projects on the
population;".
      Paragraphs 10 through 14 are deleted and replaced by the
following paragraphs:
      "10.  BCP shall approve sub-projects on the basis of
selection and evaluation criteria included in  the Procedures
Manual which shall, at all times, be acceptable to the
Association. The Project shall be implemented in conformity
with the procedures set forth in the said manual."
      "11.  BCP shall ensure that the technical audits are
conducted annually by independent auditors at the time of the
financial audit referred to in Article IV of this Agreement.
The Terms of Reference of the technical audits shall be
acceptable to the Association. The objective of the said audits
shall be to examine the conformity of the selection and the
financing of the sub-projects with the manual of procedures and
to evaluate the quality of works completed. BCP shall ensure
that the report of the technical audit is sent to the
Association by no later than June 30 of each year."
      Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation on the two
original copies of this letter provided to you and returning
Page  3
one countersigned original to us.
Sincerely,
Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By:  Marc Rugenera
     Authorized Representative
Date: March 28, 1995
