Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15241
PROJECT CONPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 832-YAR)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Private Setor Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
U S A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Republic of Yemen
Textile Rehabilitation Project (Credit 832-YAR)
Attached is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Republic of Yemen Textile
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 832-YAR for US$7 million equivalent, approved in FY78), prepared by
the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
The project was to finance the rehabilitation and modernization of the machinery of the Yemen
Textile Corporation. It did not become effective because after loan approval another donor, China,
offered to rehabilitate and modernize the plant at a fraction of the cost estimates in the Bank project. The
Credit was canceled without disbursement more than 16 years ago. As a result, a PCN was prepared
instead of a PCR, and the project is not rated.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 832-YAR)
Background and Project Scope
1.    In June 1978, IDA provided a credit of US$7.0 million equivalent (Cr.832-YAR) to the
Government of Yemen (GOY) to be onlent to the Government-owned Yemen Textile
Corporation (YTC) to finance part of the financing required for the Textile Rehabilitation
Project. However, this Credit did not become effective for reasons explained below but the
project was ultimately carried out with financing from China.
2.    The project was designed to help increase capacity utilization, improve management
practices, reduce financial losses and return YTC to profitability. The project consisted of the
first two phases of a three-phase program to rehabilitate the textile mill at Sana'a. The first
phase was to replace or recondition some of the inefficient machinery and equipment, complete
the erection and start-up of equipment purchased earlier by the Corporation for its modernization
program, introduce a work incentive scheme and provide management and operating assistance
and training through a team of foreign experts. The second phase was to focus primarily on the
replacement or the complete modernization of all original spinning equipment, minor expansion
of weaving capacity and the replacement of a few machines in the process department.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.    The total financing required for the project was estimated at US$25.5 million, including
US$19.0 million in foreign exchange and the remaining US$6.5 million equivalent in local
currency. The Project was to be financed with a credit of US$7.0 million equivalent from IDA,
a US$1.5 million loan from the OPEC Special Fund, and the remaining US$17.0 million
equivalent from the Government. The IDA Credit of US$7.0 million was to finance the foreign
exchange cost of: (i) selected machinery and equipment; and (ii) consultants' services and
training. The proceeds of the IDA Credit were to be onlent by GOY to the Corporation at an
interest of 10 percent per annum for a period of 12 years, including 4 years of grace. The
foreign exchange risk was to be borne by GOY. Half of GOY's contribution was to be in the
form of equity (which was to be paid in two tranches, one by April 1, 1978 and the other by
January 31, 1979) and the other half was to be in loan. The GOY loan to the Corporation was
to carry the same terms as those at which the IDA funds were to be onlent.  The estimated
Credit effectiveness date was November 22, 1978.
Conditions of Effectiveness
4.    In November 1978, the Government of Yemen (GOY) requested an extension of the
effectiveness date by three months to February 23, 1979 (first extension) as none of the



2
following conditions of effectiveness were fulfilled by the original effectiveness date: (i)
ratification of the Credit and Project Agreements by the Government and the Corporation; (ii)
signing of the Subsidiary loan agreement for the IDA Credit between the Government and the
Corporation; (iii) signing of the loan agreement between the Government and the Corporation
for the Government loan of YR38.25 million (equivalent to US$8.5 million); and (iv) signing
of the loan agreement between the Government and the OPEC Special Fund for US$1.5 million
equivalent.
5.     The main reason for lack of progress on meeting the conditions for effectiveness was that
there were management changes in the Corporation soon after the Credit was approved by IDA
and the new management wanted to review the project cost (which they thought was too high)
and implementation arrangements (with particular reference to reducing the cost of consultants).
Following the review, they decided to terminate the consultant contract (which was signed before
Credit negotiations) with a German firm saying that the contract was too expensive. Further,
they did not want to initiate any action for meeting the Credit effectiveness conditions until they
found a way to bring down the project cost. In this context, they wanted to make alternative
implementation arrangements using consultants from developing countries.
6.     A January 1979 mission found that the Corporation had not made up its mind on how
to proceed with the project. YTC and GOY wanted eight more months to go through the
consultant selection process and subsequently meeting the conditions for Credit effectiveness.
Before recommending the second extension of the effectiveness date (which was later approved),
the mission wanted to reach agreement on an approach to the selection of consultants. In early
1979, the mission was able to agree with YTC and GOY on inviting new bids from consulting
firms exclusively from developing countries. They asked IDA to help with the preparation of
the short list of firms to be invited to bid. IDA complied with this request and, subsequently,
YTC invited bids from three firms -- one from Pakistan and two from India. However, the bids
received did not meet all the requirements stipulated in the terms of reference (TOR). The Bank
suggested (as reported in the IDA mission report of May 31, 1979) that YTC invite
representatives of bidders to come to Sana'a for discussions and updating their proposals in order
to avoid delays.
Reasons for Credit Cancellation
7.     At this stage, the Chinese Government which had helped originally to finance the textile
plant at Sana'a objected to the proposed replacement/modification of the original equipment from
China by non-Chinese equipment using non-Chinese consultants. (China was not a member of
the World Bank at that time). Subsequently, the Chinese came up with an offer to rehabilitate
and modernize the plant at a fraction of the cost estimated at appraisal by the IDA mission. The
Chinese authorities did not object to the proposed project scope and implementation
arrangements earlier at the time of pre-appraisal or appraisal when there were still Chinese
consultants at the Sana'a plant. As a matter of fact, the Chinese consultants were reluctant to
meet with Bank missions for any discussions during the appraisal process without prior clearance
from the authorities in China.



3
8.    Meanwhile, the mill's performance continued to deteriorate with the company facing
increasing production, financial, marketing and labor problems. Many management positions
remained vacant.  The IDA found it impossible to proceed with the Project when the
Government and YTC decided to accept the Chinese offer to rehabilitate/modernize the textile
plant using Chinese equipment and spare parts and Chinese consultants, with the Chinese
Government financing the entire project. Subsequently, IDA informed GOY and YTC about its
decision to cancel the Credit to the Textile Rehabilitation Project.
Lessons Learned
9.    The main lessons learned are: (i) official clearance for plant modifications from the
original financing entity need to be obtained early in the project cycle; (ii) the issue of project
ownership needs to be given more attention in project financing; and (iii) change in project
management might require changes in implementation arrangements and the Bank need to take
prompt decision on this matter without allowing the issue to linger on.
M:\YEM\TEXTILE.PCN
YTShetty















IMAGING
Report No:      15241
Type: PCN



