Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2298a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C1RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                      5     YRls 4.50 1/
YRls          1         -            $0.22
YRIs     1,000          -          $222.00
YR1s 1,000,000          -     $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
Corporation             -     Yeaen Textile Corporation
CPO                     -     Central Planning Organization
Lm                      -     Linear meter of fabric
1/  No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared
to the 1MF.  All exchange transactions are effected at
the Central Bank rate which has been pegged to the US
dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Beneficiary:         Yemen Textile Corporation
Amount:              US$7.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Onlending Terms:    The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by the
Government to the Yemen Textile Corporation (Corporation)
at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum plus a
service charge of 2.5 percent per annum for a period
of 12 years including 4 years grace. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Corporation.
Project
Description:         The project comprises:
(a)  Phase I (1978-79)
(i) reconditioning of the existing machinery and
equipment; (ii) immediate replacement of a small
number of machines; (iii) completing the erection
and start-up of the equipment purchased earlier by
the Corporation under its own modernization
program; (iv) introduction of an incentive scheme
(currently not in existence) based on reasonable
work loads to improve productivity, and (v) manage-
ment and operating assistance and training through
a team of foreign experts.
(b)  Phase II (1980-81)
providing for the replacement or complete modern-
ization of all original spinning equipment, minor
expansion of the weaving capacity and replacement
of few machines in the processing department.
Upon completion of the project (Phases I and II), total
annual production in 1981 will reach about 14.4 million lm
of 100 percent cotton fabric, 150 tons of cotton wool and
170 tons of sewing thread. The exact scope and optimal
timing of Phase III will be determined in light of the
results achieved from the proposed project. The proposed
project will bring about a significant reduction of losses
and is designed to return the Corporation to profitable
operations starting 1981 which is the first year of full
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
capacity utilization. The major risk of the project lies
in the possibility that the Corporation may not achieve
the production level required to reach profitability after
project completion as projected (see paras. 69 and 70).
Estimated Cost:
US$ million
Local Foreign Total
Civil Works                         0.25    0.98    1.23
Machinery & Equipment fob.
(incl. spares)                      -     10.20   10.20
Transport (c.&f.) and
Insurance                         0.33    1.02    1.35
Erection                            0.11    0.31    0.42
Start-up Expenses                   0.03    0.10    0.13
Engineering                          -      0.20    0.20
Management Assistance               0.50    1.50    2.00
Training                            0.15    0.09    0.24
Basic Cost Estimate (BCE)           1.37   14.40   15.77
-  Physical Contingency             0.14    1.44    1.58
-  Price Escalation                 0.72    1.37    2.09
Sub-Total                           2.23   17.21   19.44
-  Interest during Constr.          1.77    0.29    2.06
-  Working Capital                  2.50    1.50    4.00
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED            6.50   19.00   25.50
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local Foreign Total
IDA                                 -        7.0      7.0
OPEC Special Fund                   -        1.5      1.5
Government Equity                  3.5       5.0      8.5
Government Loan                    3.0       5.5      8.5
Total                              6.5      19.0    25.5



- iii. 
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:
US$ Million
-IDA FY         1979         1980          1981         1982
Annual          1.4          4.8           0.6          0.2
Cumulative      1.4          6.2           6.8          7.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            13.2 percent.
Estimated
Completion Date:    December 31, 1981
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 2010-YAR, dated May 26, 1978
Industrial Projects Department






THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $7 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Textile Rehabilitation  project.
The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be onlent by the Government
to the Yemen Textile Corporation at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per
annum plus a service charge of 2.5 percent per annum for a period of twelve
years including four years of grace. The OPEC Special Fund is expected to
participate with $1.5 million in the financing of the proposed project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A basic economic mission visited
YAR in October 1977 and its report is under preparation. The findings of the
mission are reflected in this section. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socio-economic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new Republican Government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time, the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central Government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973 the Government launched a Three-Year Development Program
(1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented largely with the help
of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the physical infra-
structure was expanded and telecommunication links were built; first attempts
were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its
1/   Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Tihama Development
Project II which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 8,
1978 (Credit approved on May 18, 1978).



- 2 -
medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $30 million in 1969/70 to over $800 million in 1976/77.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70 reaching a level of about $400 1/ in
1976/77. While these developments, together with fast-growing government
expenditures for both investment projects and public services, have greatly
alleviated Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural under-
employment, they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the
future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 20 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the Government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This seriously limits the absorp-
tive capacity of the public administration.
7.        The gap between public and private salaries has been widened by a
narrow tax base and by inflation which averaged some 30 percent per annum in
recent years. Inflation also creates distortions in resource allocation and
income distribution, and weakens the savings propensity of the private sector.
The major sources of inflation have been a fast-growing demand for goods and
services as well as physical constraints on imports, especially congestion in
the Port of Hodeidah. Domestic demand has been fuelled by workers' remit-
tances; by a deficit in the Government's financial transactions; and more
recently, by an acceleration of bank credit to the private sector.
8.        Another major issue the Government faces at present, is to essure
the rational allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During
the past when funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely
lacking, the authorities found it relatively easy to select high-priority
projects such as establishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing
modern education, building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.
With the rapid growth in development spending, however, the range of choices
1/   Tentative estimate; official figure is $250 per capita, as shown in
Annex 1 and based on World Bank Atlas methodology for the period 1974-76.



is increasing very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of indi-
vidual projects will not always be as obvious as in the past.
9.        Yet, the new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements
in development, remarkable as they are, should not distract from the fact
that YAR continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country.
Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which
occupies about three-fourths of the resident labor force. This reflects the
very limited investment in physical capital made so far as well as the pre-
dominance of traditional skills. Nine out of ten adult persons are illiterate
and only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary schools. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part of whom in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical
constraints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are both scarce and few mineral deposits have
been discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The Government is fully aware of these issues--old as well as new
ones--and willing to address them with all the means at its disposal. This
is reflected in the Government's development objectives as outlined in the
first Five-Year Development Plan for the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on
the achievements of the Three-Year Program, the new Plan endeavors to further
develop the country's human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical
infrastructure; to raise the productivity of the commodity producing sectors;
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs for food, health services, education, water supply and other com-
munity services. To achieve its objectives the Government has launched an
impressive investment and manpower training program which it intends to carry
out in close cooperation with foreign donors of capital and technical assis-
tance. While continuing to rely on a market-oriented economic system the
authorities foresee increasing collaboration between the public, cooperative
and private sectors.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be US$3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about US$150 per capita), the steep increase
in investment proposed by the Plan raises questions of technical feasibility
and economic viability.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the Government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, sponsored by IDA,
which will ease congestion in Hodeidah and improve facilities in other ports
of entry. The project is designed to meet YAR's requirement for port capacity
up to 1985. The resulting unrestricted flow of imports should reduce present



-4-
supply shortages thus easing inflationary pressure. In addition, measures
have been taken, in consultation with the IMF, to reduce the budget deficit
and to restrict the expansion of bank credit to the private sector. Encour-
aging results are also being achieved in education and manpower training.
Enrollment in primary and secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs
in technical and vocational training have been started. The University of
Sana'a, established in 1970, now has close to 3,000 students, many enrolled
in technical disciplines. A large number of Yemeni students (about 2,300)
also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8-9 percent a year between 1969/70 and
1975/76. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest in the modern
sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of
government services, of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid
increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising
vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the most
important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace (about 3 percent
per annum).
15.       When interpreting these trends one has to remember that 1969/70
fell into the middle of a prolonged drought period. Agricultural growth,
especially in the subsistence sector, therefore reflects in large measure
higher levels of precipitation in the final year (1975/76). If this factor
is eliminated one can conclude that agricultural expansion was essentially
confined to cash crops while subsistence farming just about held its ground
and possibly even declined marginally.
16.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
invest_Žnt in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan the Government
increased its development spending from YR 57 millon ($13 million) in 1972/73
to YR 340 million ($76 million) in 1975/76.
17.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern



- 5 -
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all increased
during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from over 40
percent in 1969170 to less than one third in 1975/76. But even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than tb-t of sub-
sistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
18.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years, has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast growing investment level. In 1975/76, gross national savings reached the
equivalent of 24 percent of GNP compared with only 10 percent in 1971/72.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate was
perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate poli-
cies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes, together
with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning from Saudi
Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent which may not
be perpetuated in future years.
19.       Virtually all of YAR's national savings are being generated by the
private sector while the government sector has had negative savings in the
past. This was mainly the result of a narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in
1975/76) which did not allow the public sector to capture an adequate share
of the country's growing money incomes. Shortage of tax revenue has also
restricted the expansion of essential public services such as education,
public health and maintenance programs for existing capital stock.
20.       So far the inadequacy of current revenue has not held back public
investment. Generous foreign aid has enabled the Government to finance all
projects and programs which it could effectively handle. Moreover, cash
grants provided by Saudi Arabia have helped to ease the burden of current
expenditures. Although foreign aid is likely to be available in the foresee-
able future, it will have to be gradually replaced by domestic resources if
the country is to become more self-reliant. The longer term objective of
fiscal policy therefore should be to raise sufficient local revenue that the
current budget can be balanced and a significant contribution can be made to
the financing of government capital expenditures.
21.       Significant progress has already been made in this respect during
recent years. Current domestic revenue has risen from 73 percent of current
expenditure in 1972/73 to 94 percent in 1975/76, while the current deficit has
declined both in real and absolute terms. During 1976/77 the current budget
was approximately balanced and for 1977/78 a moderate surplus is expected.
These are remarkable achievements for a country of Yemen's early state of
development.
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current



-6-
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the Government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the close and friendly relations that
YAR has established with Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil exporting nations
whose vast and still growing wealth is spilling over into YAR in the form of
workers' remittances and aid flows.
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still extremely low reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  During 1973/74-1976/77 they averaged approximately $15 million a
year, or the equivalent of about 1 percent of GDP.  Most exports are of agri-
cultural origin with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodi-
ties. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $730 million in 1976/77. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen Rial,
and the absence of import restrictions. The increase would have been even
stronger had there not been physical constraints - particularly in the Port
of Hodeidah - to transport foreign goods into the country.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached about $710 million in 1976/77, almost four times as large as
in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. Net earnings from
services have grown even faster in recent years than the trade deficit. As a
result, the balance on current account which was in deficit until 1974/75,
recorded its first surplus in 1975/76 (US$130 million) which rose to $175 mil-
lion in 1976/77.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least developed country", most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessional loans. Although a complete over-view of all assis-
tance received by the YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can
be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by
the end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3
years.
26.       About three-fifths of the total assistance given so far was provided
in the form of non-reimbursable grants, mostly for food aid, technical assis-
tance and more recently, budget support. Food aid has been provided through
the World Food Program and a number of bilateral donors. A large part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Be-
sides the grants YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Total commitments exceeded $547 million on June 30, 1977 about half of which



-7-
has been disbursed. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years,
averaging $47 million in 1975/76 and 1976/77. More than three quarters of
all official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of
specific projects with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and :tilities.  The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which the YAR has obtained official loan assistance
have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent but Arab
commodity assistance has been interest-free. Loan maturities generally range
from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1977 was esti-
mated at $529 million, of which $292 million was disbursed. The major creditors
were IDA, USSR, China, Germany, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits
accounted for $110 million or about 20 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments are
estimated at only about $6 million for 1976/77, equivalent to less than one
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances).
Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the
burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation to YAR's
exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign exchange reserves.
At the end of June 1977 they reached $920 million or the equivalent of about
1 year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid and last but not least, the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level ($135 per capita
in 1976/77) and are likely to grow rapidly as present physical and administra-
tive bottlenecks are being overcome. Worker's remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change sub-
stantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable reserve
position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if
recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The reserve posi-
tion has also to be viewed in the context of the country's dependence on agri-
culture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather. A repetition of the
severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would necessitate the import of
foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume adding substantially to the
country's foreign exchange requirements.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
30.       The proposed credit would be the sixteenth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to $138.8 million. 2/ The utilization trend of the funds from
the ongoing credits has been fairly satisfactory. Disbursements in FY76 were
$10.8 million and in FY77 $19.2 million. At the end of the third quarter of
FY78, total disbursements were $50.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of April 30, 1978.
31.       The major focus of the World Bank activity in YAR has been to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure, prerequisite for
development, and to begin lending in the dominant productive sector--agricul-
ture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of $200,000 to help finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and
economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 to make
possible the continuation and expansion of the planning team services, was
approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of $120,000 to
provide for the continuation of the services of a planning team including
those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund joined
with a grant of about $425,000. The team has been and still is instrumental
in assisting the Central Planning Organization (CPO) in formulating its
development strategy, in preparing policies needed to implement the strategy
and in training Yemeni staff in the CPO. The Bank is also providing technical
assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the
services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
32.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended three credits for highways for $28.2
million in 1972, 1976 and 1978. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
participated in the financing of the second project with $5 million equivalent.
To expand YAR's inadequate port facilities and to strengthen its management
capabilities, IDA approved in May 1977 a credit of $6 million for a port devel-
opment project. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development participated
with $8 million equivalent. IDA extended a credit for Water Supply in Sana'a
in 1974 for $6.3 million, a credit for Water and Sewerage in Hodeidah in 1975
for $8.1 million, and in December 1976 a credit for the Second Sana'a Water
Supply and Sewerage Project for $10.0 million, all three of which support the
National Water and Sewerage Authority. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development contributed $21 million to finance the sewerage component in the
Hodeidah project and $17.1 million to finance the water supply component in
the second Sana'a project. The Saudi Fund for Development provided $14.5
towards financing part of the cost of the latter. To assist in the development
of education, IDA has extended two credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million,
1/   Almost identical to Part II of the President's Report for the Tihama
Development Project II which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 8, 1978.
2/   Includes a credit of $11.5 million for a Highway III project and a
second credit of $10.5 million for the Tihama Development Project II
which were approved by the Board on April 27 and May 18, 1978,
respectively.



- 9 -
which together with aid from UNDP, Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the
United Arab Emirates, financed expansion of teacher training and secondary and
vocational education; and the second for $8 million in 1976 which is a followup
to the first project. To develop infrastructure and production in YAR's major
sector, agriculture and agro-industries, IDA has made five credits. The first
credit of $10.9 million in 1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Development
project, to which the Kuwait Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major cost
increases, the Kuwait Fund approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the
project, and IDA also approved a supplementary credit of $10.3 million in
March 1976. The second agricultural credit of $10.0 million was made for the
Southern Uplands Rural Development project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund
participated with $10.0 million. The third credit of $5.2 million for a Grain
Storage and Processing project was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for
Development joined with a loan of $11.0 million under parallel financing
arrangements. A fourth credit of $5.0 million for a Livestock Credit and
processing project was approved in October 1976. The Kuwait Fund ($11.6 mil-
lion), the Netherlands ($8.9 million) and the UK ($2.4 million) are partici-
pating in the financing of the project under parallel financing arrangements.
A fifth credit of $10.5 million was approved in May 1978 for the development
of agriculture in Wadi Rima of the Tihama Region. A $2.3 million credit for
an Industrial Estate project was approved in 1974 and is designed to stimulate
investment in small-scale industry and provide a model for future industrial
development.
33.       Future World Bank activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stitutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agricul-
ture and public utilities, help provide the necessary manpower training, and
continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. In keeping with this strategy, a power project was appraised in
November 1977. An agricultural project in Wadi Mawr, and an education project
are now being appraised. A fisheries project, agricultural projects in Wadi
Surdud and in the Southern Uplands and a water supply and sewerage project in
the cities of Ibb and Dhamar are in the preparation stage. The World Bank
lending strategy recognizes that YAR is among the 29 least-developed countries
as classified by the U.N. and thus requires special assistance, which justifies
IDA financing of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures.
Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts
have been made to obtain cofinancing from other donors. In addition to its
own commitments of $109.8 million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully
played a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $143.0 million
equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors (Arab Fund $38.1 million;
Kuwait Fund $41.5 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates
$8.0 million; Saudi Fund for Development $25.5 million; UNDP $6.6 million; FRG
$0.58 million; the UK $2.4 million and the Netherlands $8.9 million). YAR's
level of poverty and the weak structure of its balance of payments have in the
past justified a large portion of local currency financing by the Association;
however, YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing



- 10 -
and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Recently, the Bank assisted the Government in
establishing a Project Monitoring System to ensure effective project implemen-
tation and to enable it to measure the progress made against the set targets.
The system is now under implementation and the Bank has been requested by the
Government to continue its assistance in this field.
34.       The Executive Directors of the International Finance Corporation
approved on April 11, 1978 an investment of $3.15 million to help finance
a dairy and juice project. This is IFC's first activity in YAR.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Background
35.       Industry in the YAR is at a very early stage of development.  Al-
though there are a large number of manufacturing enterprises, and employ-
ment in the construction industry is also substantial, most operations are
extremely small, and are based on traditional production methods. However,
in recent years a few medium-sized manufacturing firms have been established
both in the public and private sectors. A construction boom has led also
to the emergence of several larger contracting companies.
36.       There is currently considerable interest and enthusiasm among the
private sector for expanding existing firms and establishing new manufacturing
enterprises. This is manifested in the substantial number of projects for
which official approval is being sought, and in the demand for plots and
factory space on the recently established Sana'a industrial estate. The Gov-
ernment also gives high priority to industrial development in its new Five-
Year Plan, and has reacted positively to approval requests by the private
sector. Enthusiasm is less noticeable within Government and in the private
sector for a further rapid expansion of the local construction industry,
in spite of the boom in building activity and the very large construction
demands of the Five-Year Plan 1976/77-1980/81. This follows basically from
the management and manpower problems which the construction industry has
encountered in the last few years.
37.       Determination to push ahead with the development of manufacturing
industry, both public sector and private, is a major factor favoring success
in this. Other important factors supporting industrial development are: (a)
the knowledge of local markets and how to tap them which private sector manu-
facturers bring from their predominantly trading backgrounds, (b) the quite
significant number of private individuals or families able to raise, from
profits from past trading activities and land transactions, and in commercial
loans, sufficient funds (up to YR 5 million) to set up medium-sized industrial
undertakings; few, however, are able to raise more substantial amounts, and
(c) the natural protection provided by high transport cost for certain products,
especially construction materials.



- 11 -
38.       Manufacturing industries excluding construction contribute only
about 4 percent to GDP and employed in 1975 a total of about 8,000 people.
Industry as a whole including construction and utilities employs about 90,000
persons and contributes some 10 percent to GDP. The Yemen Textile Corporation
which employs about 1,600 people, is YAR's largest industrial employer, pro-
viding about 20 percent of total employment in the manufacturing sub-sector.
There are only a few other manufacturing enterprises in the public sector
such as the Yemen Cement and Tobacco Companies. Since the end of the civil
war (1969), private entrepreneurs (traditionally merchants) have become
increasingly active in industry and, particularly in the last two years have
established some small and medium-scale plants in the manufacturing of con-
sumer goods and construction materials.
The Textile Industry
39.       In the past, traditional handweaving was a fairly important activity
in YAR, particularly in the coastal Tihama region where cotton is grown. In
recent years, however, this activity has been declining due to a shift in
consumer taste to imported products and because of migration of workers to the
main cities.
40.       In the private sector there currently exists only one small knitting
plant, but private enterpreneurs are showing growing interest to become more
active in knitting and in the manufacturing of ready-made garments. However,
there are currently no prospects for private investment in spinning and
weaving mills. This is because investors who are mostly traders are only
interested in less complex investments of a smaller, and occasionally, medium
scale.
The Yemen Textile Corporation
41.       The Yemen Textile Corporation (Corporation), a 100 percent Government-
owned company, owns YAR's only two spinning and weaving mills. The first is a
fully integrated mill located in Sana'a, with a design capacity of 10 million
linear meter (lm) per year of 100 percent cotton fabrics. The construction of
this mill was completed in 1967 with assistance from the People's Republic of
China. The second mill is a very small, but also integrated, cotton spinning
and weaving plant in Bajil, with a design capacity of 2.1 million lm per year.
The Bajil mill was built in 1955 by a French supplier. However, due to polit-
ical difficulties which forced the departure of the supplier's representatives,
the mill did not start operation until 1973 and only some of its spinning
equipment was brought into production. The weaving and finishing equipment
was not put into operation. The Bajil mill has been supplying about 100 tons
per year of coarse yarn to handweavers. The market for this commodity is
gradually decreasing as this handicraft is slowly disappearing. The Bajil
mill currently employs about 120 people. The possibility of rehabilitating
the Bajil mill was studied in detail in 1972. Its rehabilitation, however,
was found financially and economically unviable. Since then, the condition of
the mill has further deteriorated and economic factors (e.g. increased wages
and declining productivity) have become much more disadvantageous. Therefore,



- 12 -
the Corporation plans to gradually phase out production at this mill and to
close it down by the end of 1980.
42.       Until 1974 the Sana'a mill operated near its rated capacity, produc-
ing about 1,200 tpy of yarn and 9 to 10 million lm of fabric. Starting in
1975 the production began to decline and has fallen to a level of about 4.9
million Im in 1977. The Corporation achieved small profits until the end of
1975. In 1976 production fell to a level of only 55 percent of its designed
capacity resulting in a loss of YR 4.0 million ($0.9 million) which jumped
to YR 7.5 million ($1.7 million) in 1977 because of a further decline in
production and rise in costs.
43.       The main reasons for the decline in production and the increasing
losses are: (i) weak management; (ii) departure of the Chinese experts who
provided technical assistance until the end of 1974; (iii) rapidly increasing
cost of labor in YAR resulting in increasing staff turnover, since wages paid
by the Corporation, although raised by over 30 percent per annum between 1972
and 1977, have fallen behind those paid elsewhere in the private sector and
abroad; (iv) labor-intensive machinery which aggravates the problem of high
cost of labor; (v) competition from imported textiles; and (vi) a poorly
planned and implemented modernization program that caused further disruption
and decline in production.
44.       The most important factor contributing to the Corporation's diffi-
culties is the high cost of labor. Following the emigration of about 0.7
million Yemenis to the neighboring oil producing countries and an economic
boom in YAR fueled by workers' remittances (estimated to have reached a level
of $800 million in 1976/1977) as well as a steady flow of bilateral and multi-
lateral development assistance, wage rates throughout the economy, but partic-
ularly in the construction industry and other parts of the private sector,
have been increasing rapidly. Today's wages in YAR's textile industry are
about 3 times as high as in Syria and about 2 times as high as in Algeria.
45.       The future prospects of YAR's textile industry depend to a signi-
ficant degree on the extent to which women can be employed. To date only 25
percent of the workers employed in the Sana'a mill are women. Since no women
emigrate for work abroad, there is a significant potential for employing
female workers in increasing numbers. Therefore, as part of the proposed
project, consultants would be employed by the Government by October 31, 1978
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to carry out a study on the
social, economic, cultural and educational aspects of increased employment of
women iia the textile industry and possible measures to increase their employ-
ment (S.-tion 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Market
46.       In the last few years, consumption of textiles in YAR has increased
at an average rate of 13.5 percent per year to a total of 41.5 million Im in



- 13 -
1976. In spite of these recent increases, the level of textile consumption in
YAR is still below that in other countries with comparable per capita income.
Consumption of textiles in YAR is therefore expected to continue to grow at
about 9 percent per annum through 1979 and at 4.2 percent per annum thereafter.
The Corporation's production satisfied 42 percent of demand in 1972 but only
16 percent in 1976 due to the increase in demand and the 50 percent drop in
local output. After completion of the rehabilitation program, the Sana'a mill
would provide about 25 percent of projected demand.
Other Prospects in the Textiles Industry
47.       In addition to the proposed project of rehabilitating the Sana'a
mill, there are currently two other projects under discussion. The first
one is a cotton spinning and weaving mill to be supplied by the People's
Republic of China and to be built near Hodeidah. The mill would be similar
to the Sana'a mill. The implementation of the project is currently being
reconsidered since the new mill, with its labor-intensive Chinese equipment,
would likely face the same problems as are now being encountered by the
Sana'a mill. The second project is a polyester/viscose weaving and finishing
mill, using imported yarn to produce about 4 million lm per year of suiting
material. The project, for which a prefeasibility study exists, is to be
built in Dhamar. The Government requested IDA to help finance this project.
A review by IDA of the prefeasibility study led to the conclusion that the
proposed project was not economically viable. In any case, efforts should
first be concentrated on the rehabilitation of the Sana'a textile mill, and
the strengthening of its management. The results achieved under this rehab-
ilitation project will provide important insights into the feasibility of
future textile mills in YAR. The Government has agreed that it will not
implement any other textile project in the public sector costing in the
aggregate more than the equivalent of $1 million without prior consultation
with IDA (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Previous IDA-Financed Projects in the Industrial Sector
48.       IDA's involvement in this sector commenced in 1974 with the finan-
cing of the Industrial Estate Project (Cr. 465 YAR). The project provides
infrastructure and standard factory buildings and technical assistance to
private entrepreneurs for the establishment of small and medium-scale industry
in Sana'a.  The construction of the industrial buildings is now completed.
Several entrepreneurs have already signed lease agreements for factory space
and developed plots. In addition, the Project assisted in the establishment
of the Industrial Estate Development Authority and also for its future tech-
nical and managerial support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The project was prepared and appraised by Bank staff and consultants
in December 1977. A follow-up mission visited YAR in February 1978 to discuss



- 14 -
with the Government the final scope of the project and the proposed financing
plan. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 17 to 18, 1978. The YAR
delegation was headed by Dr. Mohamed Al-Ariki, Deputy Chairman of the Central
Planning Organization. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Textile
Rehabilitation T-oject, Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 2010-YAR), dated May 26,
1978 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the Credit and the Project are mentioned in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The proposed project comprises the first and second phases of a
rehabilitation program of the Sana'a textile mill that will be implemented in
three phases, and aims at returning the mill to full capacity utilization and
profitability through (i) the provision of management and technical assis-
tance; (ii) replacement of most of the original equipment, and (iii) expansion
of the mill's capacity to 16.0 million lm (18.2 million m2) per year of fabric
and the introduction of new and more profitable types of fabrics as well as
sewing thread and cotton wool. The rehabilitation program, while significantly
increasing the volume and value of the mill's production, will not increase
the total labor requirements of the mill. The project was selected after
review of several alternative programs of rehabilitation.
51.       The project comprises:
(a) Phase I (1978-79)
(i) reconditioning of the existing machinery and equipment; (ii)
immediate replacement of a small number of machines; (iii) completing the
erection and start-up of the equipment purchased earlier by the Corporation
under its own modernization program; (iv) introduction of an incentive scheme
(currently not in existence) based on reasonable work loads to improve pro-
ductivity, and (v) management and operating assistance and training through
a team of foreign experts.
(b) Phase II (1980-81)
Replacement or complete modernization of all original spinning
equipment, minor expansion of the weaving capacity and replacement of a few
machines in the processing department.
52.       Upon completion of the project (Phases I and II), the total annual
production in 1981 will reach about 14.4 million lm of 100 percent cotton
fabric, 150 tons of cotton wool and 170 tons of sewing thread. The exact
scope and optimal timing of Phase III will be determined in light of the
results achieved from the proposed project. It was agreed, that the Corpora-
tion assisted by the experts employed under the proposed project, will submit
to IDA by June 30, 1980 a study on the exact scope, timing and viability of
further modernizing the Sana'a mill (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). In principle, however, Phase III would consist of the replacement or



- 15 -
complete modernization of the original weaving and processing equipment. The
new equipment would also provide for the processing of blended (polyester/
cotton) fabrics using imported blended yarn and thus introducing weaving of
blended fabrics for-the first time in YAR.
Management and Technical Assistance
53.       The Corporation operates as an independent commercial entity under
the general supervision of the Ministry of Economy. The Chairman of the Board
of Directors and the General Manager are the two chief executive officers of
the Corporation. At the end of February 1978, the Government replaced the
Corporation's Board of Directors including the General Manager who were not
successful in managing the affairs of the Corporation. The new Chairman and
the General Manager will be supported by seven experts: an advisor to the
General Manager, E technical manager, a weaving manager, a finishing manager,
a maintenance engineer for spinning, a maintenance engineer for weaving and a
printing expert. Provision has also been made for 36 man-months of short-term
experts of different specializations. Technical assistance to the Corporation
provided under the proposed project will extend until end 1981. By June 30,
1981, the Government and the Corporation will consult with IDA on the need
for the continuation of technical assistance beyond December 31, 1981 (Section
4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, the Corporation
will prepare and submit to the Association by June 30, 1979 a detailed train-
ing program and shall thereafter carry out such a program in accordance with
a time schedule to be agreed with the Association (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). The program will include training in YAR in a new train-
ing center to be established with some of the machinery to be replaced under
the project, and also abroad.
Raw Materials and Utilities
54.       The main raw material required is cotton.  Until now sufficient
cotton was available locally.  However, the quantity of locally produced
cotton dropped from a peak of 27,200 tons in 1974/75 to 5,300 tons in 1976/77.
The requirements of the Sana'a mill after completion of the project will be
about 9,000 tons per year.  The Government is making efforts to increase local
production of cotton, but it is not certain whether sufficient quantity of
locally produced cotton will be available to meet the needs of the mill after
project completion. The Government agreed that the Corporation will be per-
mitted to purchase cotton from the most economic sources including imports if
necessary (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All
other materials and fuel are imported.
55.       The Sana'a mill currently generates its own power and is not con-
nected to the public grid. Since most of the power consumption in YAR, and
in Sana'a in particular, is currently for lighting purposes, the Yemen General
Electric Company (YGEC) is looking for industrial consumers to achieve a more
even load. Therefore, provision is made in the project, under Government
financing for a connection of the mill to the public grid of Sana'a with the
objective of first buying the incremental power required for the project and



- 16 -
eventually the entire requirements after phasing out the mill's own diesel
generators. As part of a project currently under way (with financing from
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development) to expand YGEC's generating
capacity, a study will be carried out in 1978 of the appropriate structure and
level of tariffs to be charged by YGEC. Pending the outcome of th-s study,
the Corporation, with the assistance of its consultants, will review its
present decision to purchase its incremental power requirements from YGEC or
whether to increase its own generating facilities.
56.       The Sana'a mill at full capacity operation consumes about 1,000
tons per day of water or 30 litres per meter of fabric, which is about double
the standard of modern textile mills. This represents a particularly serious
problem in Sana'a where water is in short supply. Therefore, as a first step,
the project provides for replacement of the mill's fabric boiling and bleach-
ing range with equipment using less water. Secondly, the consultants will
study the feasibility of installing a water recycling system. If this is not
feasible, an industrial water treatment plant will be provided as part of the
project to treat the polluted water prior to its discharge.
Product Mix, Marketing and Sales
57.       Currently the Sana'a mill produces four products.  In view of the
shifts that have been taking place in consumer preference, as evident from
import statistics, the product mix will be altered by the end of 1981. In
establishing the new product mix, an attempt was made to shift to products
for which (i) there is a ready local market and which sell at attractive
prices; (ii) the medium staple Yemeni cotton is well suited, and (iii) 100
percent cotton fabric is at least disadvantage or at an advantage over blended
fabrics. Under the second part of the modernization program to follow the
project after 1981, the Sana'a mill will introduce the production of blended
fabrics.
58.       Locally-produced fabrics are sold to private wholesalers and retail-
ers. About 40 percent of the production is sold in Hodeida and 30 percent
each in the Taiz and Sana'a/Dhamar areas. Ex-factory prices for fabrics and
garments are established by the Corporation. At present, it is difficult to
estimate the profit margins for distributors who also obtain a flat sales
commission regardless of the quantity of purchase or promptness of payment.
Although payments are supposed to be made in 30 days, normally, they are
not. The Corporation has receivables equivalent to 35 percent of its 1977
sales. Given the Corporation's poor financial position, the consultants to
be appointed under the project will review the marketing system and sales
policy and help introduce appropriate changes. The Corporation has agreed
to submit this study to the Association by June 30, 1979, for discussion,
and to introduce in light of the study's agreed recommendations, such changes
in these policies (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
Housing
59.       The explosion of money incomes in YAR was accompanied by a very
high rate of inflation, estimated to have been at least 30 percent in recent
years. In particular, the cost of housing in Sana'a has increased tremen-
dously. To remedy this situation, the Government's Five Year Plan provides
for several housing projects, including one for the workers of the Sana'a
textile factory. This would, hopefully, improve the standard of living of the
workers, and would substantially reduce the problem of staff turnover in the
factory. During negotiations, the YAR delegation informed the Association
that a contract for the construction of about 2,000 housing units has already
been signed and that about 800 units will be reserved for the workers of the
Sana'a Textile Mill. It is expected that construction of these units will
start in July 1978.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The estimated cost of the project including contingencies is $25.5
million with a foreign exchange component of $19.0 million. The average cost
of one man-month of technical assistance is estimated at about $6,500. The
proposed IDA credit of $7 million would finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs of (i) selected machinery and equipment and (ii) the consul-
tants' services and training. The Government's contribution would be $17
million of which $4 million would be allocated towards increasing the Corpo-
ration's working capital, $2 million for interest during construction and the
balance of $11 million, together with the expected loan of $1.5 million from
the OPEC Special Fund would finance the rest of the project components. The
signing of a loan agreement between the Government and the OPEC Special Fund
for an amount of $1.5 million would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit (Section 6.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Details of the cost estimates and financing are given in the Credit
and Project Summary.
Onlending Arrangements
61.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by the Government to
the Corporation at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum plus a service
charge of 2.5 percent per annum for a period of 12 years including 4 years
grace (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Corporation will bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a subsi-
diary loan agreement between the Government and the Corporation on this would
be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, half of the Government's
total contribution of $17 million would be in the form of a loan and the
other half in the form of equity participation. The Government's loan to the
Corporation would carry the same terms as those at which the IDA funds would
be onlent (Section 3.01 (d)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The signing of a loan agreement between the Government and the Corporation for
an amount of $8.5 million would be a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed IDA credit (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The other half of the Government's contribution which is to be provided



- 18 -
as equity will be made in two tranches. The first tranche will be made by
August 1, 1978 and the second by January 1, 1979 (Section 3.01(d)(i) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
62.       Equipment contracts under IDA financing would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement", March 1977. Items to be financed from the IDA credit and
estimated to cost less than $100,000 can be procured after having obtained
offers from suppliers representing at least three Bank member countries and
Switzerland. The total cost of items to be so procured will not exceed
$500,000. Consultants' services under IDA financing will be provided by
qualified and experienced experts who would be employed in accordance with
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section
2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Disbursements
63.       The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange costs of: (i) selected machinery and equipment, and
(ii) the consultants' services and training. In order to expedite the rehab-
ilitation process of the mill, in April 1978 the Corporation appointed a team
of management experts. Retroactive financing of their services, starting
May 1, 1978 and up to $300,000 is therefore proposed to be provided from the
IDA credit.
Financial Analysis
64.       Financial projections for the Corporation indicate that without the
proposed rehabilitation project, the Corporation's production would decline
further and its losses would continue to increase to the point where liquida-
tion of the Corporation would become unavoidable. The project, however, is
designed to bring about a significant reduction of losses during the period
1978 to 1980 and to return the Corporation to profitable operations starting
with 1981 which is the first year of full capacity utilization following
project completion. The project will yield a financial rate of return of 15
percent. It was agreed that the Corporation will observe certain financial
covenants, namely to maintain a current ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of at least 1.5:1 and not to incur any debt unless the net revenues
from its operations are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any suc-
ceeding fiscal year, and in any event not to incur any debt if, after incurring
such debt the ratio between the total debt of the Corporation and its capital
and surplus exceed 60:40 (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Should adverse developments bring the Corporation's current ratio below
the required level, the Government will provide or cause to be provided to the
Corporation all funds needed so that the Corporation's current ratio does not
fall below 1.2 (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Corporation would also not pay any dividends or make cash transfers to the
Government if doing so would reduce the Corporation's current ratio below 1.5



- 19 -
(Section 4.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, the Corpora-
tion would not make any additional investment of more than $1 million equiva-
lent until five years from project completion, without prior presentation
of evidence satisfactory to the Association, that the project or expansion
requiring such investment would not adversely affect the Corporation's
managerial and financial position (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
Reporting Requirements and Auditing
65.       The consultants to be appointed under the project will develop and
implement improved financial planning and control and management reporting
procedures for the Corporation. They will also prepare monthly progress
reports which will be submitted to the Corporation and to IDA. In addition,
quarterly reports will be prepared on the financial status of the Corporation.
It was agreed that the Corporation will appoint a qualified independent
auditor acceptable to IDA to carry out a full audit of the Corporation at the
end of its fiscal year and to make the full report of such audit available to
IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Ecology
66.       Provision will be made under the project to bring the Sana'a
mill's discharge of solid, liquid and gaseous waste to within internationally
accepted limits. The project also provides for replacement of the present air
conditioning system in the spinning and weaving plant to achieve better opera-
tional efficiency and working environment. The industrial water treatment
plant will be designed to keep the level of biological oxygen demand (BOD)
and the pH values for the treated water below 100 ppm and 6-8, respectively,
which is ecologically acceptable.
Economic Analysis
67.       Current world market prices (C.I.F. YAR) for textiles of the type
manufactured by the Corporation are on average 15 percent below domestic
prices. World market prices for textiles reached a peak in 1973 and since
then they have declined because of the widespread recession in the textile
industry. This decline in prices in the face of rising input costs is not
expected to continue once the recession is over and market distortions are
corrected, bringing the world market prices back to the long-term trend line.
Currently, the extent of depression of prices varies from product to product.
It is particularly noticeable for the staple items which are commonly pro-
duced by developing countries such as plain-woven, light-weight fabrics e.g.
shirting and poplin which are also the main products of the Sana'a mill.
It is assumed, therefore, that world prices of such fabrics on average would
increase in real terms gradually by 15 percent over the next three years or so
to approach the long-term trend prices. Using these assumptions, the economic
rate of return of the project would be 13.2 percent. The economic rate of
return is calculated by assuming that the shut-down of the mill is the alter-
native to the project.



- 20 -
Fiscal '>.' ^ocial Impact
68.       The Corporation is a fully Government-owned enterprise.  The
proposed project aims at returning the Sana'a Textile Mill to full capacity
utilization and profitability after years of losses, thus having a positive
impact on the YAR economy. The proposed project will also have a significant
social impact since it will help maintain about 1,600 employment opportunities,
improve working conditions and provide for a study on the social, economic,
cultural and educational aspects of employment of women, and possible measures
to further enhance their employment.
Risks
69.       The major risk of the project lies in the possibility that the Cor-
poration may not achieve the production level required to reach profitability
after project completion as projected. While the production volume and
production costs and sales are based on realistic assumptions adverse devel-
opments could take place in three areas: (i) unsuccessful management;
(ii) unexpected increases of raw material and of labor costs; (iii) world
market prices of textile would not recover in the longer term from their
currently depressed level.
70.       Through its recent appointment of a new management, the Government
had demonstrated its awareness of the management problem and its readiness to
take the necessary action if required. The personnel of the mill is aware
that they need technical assistance and have expressed their keen desire for
such assistance. The YAR Government recognizes the importance of technical
assistance at this stage of its economic development and has always been
responsive to such assistance which substantially enhances the chances of its
success. The present high wage rates are essentially due to the strong labor
demand from the modern sector and from abroad, and the very limited supply of
domestic skilled or semi-skilled manpower. However, this situation is likely
to change over the next few years. The supply of domestic labor seeking
employment in the modern sector is likely to more than double during the
present Five-Year Plan period. The principal sources of this supply will
be returning migrant workers, graduates from the rapidly expanding education
system and women. Even if the total number of Yemenis working abroad conti-
nues to increase marginally over the next few years, there will be a conti-
nuous turnover with some migrants returning home and new workers emigrating
from the subsistence sector. Finally, the assumption used in this report
with respect to international textile prices is that they will increase by
15 percent in real terms in the next three years over their currently
depre^ zd level. Even if prices were to increase by only 9 percent, the
economic return would still remain satisfactory at 10 percent. This is in
line with the assumption used for other textile projects and in line with the
general expectation of textile experts. The three risks listed above are,
therefore, considered acceptable and the project is worthwhile undertaking.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Corporation, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. Section 6.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement provides the following conditions of effectiveness: (i)
the execution of the Project Agreement; (ii) the execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and the Corporation to govern the on-
lending terms and conditions of the proceeds of the IDA credit; (iii) the
signing of a loan agreement between the the Government and the OPEC Special
Fund for an amount of $1.5 million; and (iv) the signing of a loan agreement
between the Government and the Corporation for an amount of $8.5 million.
73.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 22-                                                      AMEX I
Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
YEMEN ARAB REP        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)----------------
---------------                        ~~~~YEMEN ARAB REP                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        195.0                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       15.2                          1960        1970   ESTIMATE             AFGHANISTAN    NEPAL             JORDAN**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                                                250.0*               100.0*        70.0*       320~.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTItCS
POPULATION (MiD-YR. MILLION)                            5.5**       6.0**               12.3         11.3          2.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                                       28.0       31.0                  19.0         80.0         24.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                      362.0       395.0                  36.0       284.0         165.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV.)              .        50.5 /a    45.8                   48.7         44.          47.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THDU,AV)                .        24.1 1ig    26.9                  27.6         24.6         17.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)              .                   159.0                            200-300         36.3 __a_b_a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             .                    37.0                 37.8         40.6          50.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .          3.5        3.5                   3.4          3.0          3.5
POPULATION CIOWTH RATE I!%)
TOTAL                                                  ..        1.9~**/a              2.2          2.1          3.1
URBAN                                      .                     8.0                   5.2          3.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)                 ..                    7.0                 10.7          4.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.3        44.1        46.8                 43.2.                      47.0ID/a
IS TO 64 YEARS                          54.0        53.2        49.7                 54.2             .        49.571
65 YEARS AND OVER                         2.7         2.7        3.5                   2.6..                     3 .5 / 
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9         0.9         1.0                  0.8            .          i.ol/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     .                     2.2/b                 .                        2.4 7iad
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS fCUMULATIVE, THOU)               ........                                                86.5
USERS I1% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                .                                             
EM PLO YAE NT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                  .                 1140.0 IC                   ...                  350.0 Ia
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)               ..73.o7cT...                                                         33.0a
UNEMPLOYED 1% OF LABOR FORCE)                 .           ..                                                      14.0 /a
INCOME DISTRIBJTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .....
HIGHEST 20%A OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .....
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .,...
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .....
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                  .                                             
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                .....
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              143500.0   31340.0   23260.0                  14CS0.0      49770.0/a   2680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 ..   16830.0                          21080.0      35600. 07ia,b 1050.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                                    2060.0                     .       6750.0'    960.)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)             82.0       71.0        83.0                 80.0         94.0         94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 65.0        62.0       58.3                  58.0         52.0         60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               .        14.8/b    14.1                   11.0         11.0         16.0/'q
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4                  5..                     .                     ..0 ./b
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHAOOL                           8.0       10.0        23.0                 21.ola       26.0         73.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          0.2         1.0        2.0                  6.07-a        .          33.07a?
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   .        12.0        12.0                 12.0         10.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
1% OF SECONDARY)                           .         2.2         3.0                  4.0          6.0          3.0/a  f
ADULT LITERACY RATE 1%)                    10.0          .        10.0                  10.0        14.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                     .                     3.0                    .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 1%                              .                   90.5                 97.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY__
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       .                     4.6                   .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                          .          .         1.3
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                ..                   13.0                21.0          5.0        160.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                .                                          3.0          0.4          7.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                2.0         3.0         7.0                32.0          6.0         72.0
NEWSPRINT.(KG/YR PER CAP)                    .            ..                            0.1           ..03
…--   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - --  - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  -:   - - -  -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-    2 3                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimat  betw.ee
1973 and 1975.
tNP per capita dato are booed on the World Bank Atlas nethodolngy (1974-76 batis).
Populotio- includes reaideoto tiring abroad which is estimated at 1.2 nillion in 1975.
. ;:   Doe to eoigratton population growth rate is Iower than the rate of natural increase.
Jordan has been -elected as an objective country for Yemen Arab Repoblic since both are Arab ossntries with similar economic systema; have no
important --oeral reocrtes, have large  mabsers of enigranta chose remittances subetantially finace the import bill, and both depend on
foreign oil to support large portions of their torrent and goversesnt eopenditren.
YEMEN ARAB REP.    1970    /a   Etimated birth and death rates for 1970 are 47.3 and 28.7 reopective1y;    /b  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:       La  1972-75;    /b  Ratio of resident popolstios  coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,
/c Labor forts relates to resident popolation of 4.7 nillion only
AFPGHANISrAN         1970   /I  Public education only;    /b  Percentage of population.
NEPAL                1970   /I  Personnel in gover-ment aervices;    /b  Including midwives.
JO0DAN               1970    /A  EBot Bank only;    /b  1966;   /I  Registered only;    /d  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over ti  total
labor farce;    /e  1964-66;    7f  Including 1NA schools.
R4, March 27, 1978
DzFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thee be0)                                                                       Protlati:: per cocaine poren - Pepulation divided by n-bar of praoticing
Total - Total surfce area comprising land area end inland waters,                            els ad fesale graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurse, nd
Aeri.  - Mest recent   timats of  gri-1taraI area seed temporarily or parse-                 aesiliary porsanmel with training or asperiece.
neatly for crops, pator-s, sarcht & kitchen gardens or to lie f-llo.                     Ppalt ee i hpsbirl bed - prptpltinl divided by sebr  f bdepit1 beds
available in public end priests generai and ep.cialised baspite1 end
GNP par .aita (US0) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      ehbIlitetie     se    eaIdss nuring leee ed esteblielcenra  for
culcsi.ed by san  conrersios nethod as World Bank Atlaa (1973-75 basis);                   csatodial and preventive care
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                Per .apita sunt y of n alneiss (7. of requireints) - Computed fro, energy
oqairalest of net feed supplies available is c.untry pec capita per day;
PODulatioe  and vital statiatl,                                                              available sopplies  cenprise dosaetie predaction, imperts Ieas  eperta, and
Posueltion (mid-veer million)   As of Jsly firat:  if not vailable, average                  ohangas is stock; net supplies seclude animal foed, *eads, quantities ased
of two end-year estimeost; 1160, 1970  nd 1975 data.                                       in food pro-eseing and loanes in dietribtinoa; requitments ue  eatiettod
by rAn hose d en pbysislegial.. neds far mamma activity and hasith nosid-
Peculation density - par sq-nra kb  - Mid-year popultion per squar-  kilotar                 ering enviroasntal temperature, body vighta, age end se  distributions of
1100 hactarea) of rots) area,                                                              population, end allowing 102. for waste *t household levl.
Pooletion denamitv - see square be of aric. land - Coipsted as sbove for                   Per penita  -paely of protdin  era  nor dcct  - Protein content af per capita
agricalturesiland only.                                                                    net supply sf fted per day; net supply of food is dfined as sbove; require-
meets for a11 ceosntrie. etablihebd by TUSDA Economic RPs.ch Ser vis
Vital eratistica                                                                             preside for a ninimsa eleas   f 60 grem  of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rat  per thoneand, avera.e - iAmual live birth. per thiovsnd af                  2  gro       of enimsl end pulee pretein, of  hieh 10 gr-  abuld be an Ial
mid-year population; ten-year oritnoatic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; these standardo ac  los r than thane of 75 gr_ of total prstais
srod fivs-Y.ar ae   e.r to  nding it 1975 for mast recent e-timat.                           and 23 gren  of animal protein as an  verege for the world, proposed by PAO
Erdeeath rar. o  shog d avrg- Annul deasbe per thousand of mid-year                       in the Third World Pond Sarey.
pnpulrtion; ten-year acitsetic av,cagee ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Pee capita protein suenlo fema animal and eJlas - Pestain eapply of fond
year av-rage ending in 1975 for naot recent estimate.                                      derived free animals and pulses in gro    pr day.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - anosIl d.athe of infanta under one yar ef ag               Death rate (/then) age i-h - Anoua  deaths per thonoend in age grouP 1-4
por theuesnd live birtba                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggeated as an indicator of
Life emttotanoI at birth ins) - Avereg  somber of years of life renaiing at                  m1lnutrition.
birth; usually five-year  erages  nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing coutrie.-                                                                            Ed-ction
fre    reproduction  r-te - Average n,abar of live daughtere a co,nan  ill bear            Adjusted  -nrolnt ratio -  rimarv *chooi - EnroIent of a11 ages as par-
is her nor-al neprodsctive period if she enparisocee present ege-opecific                  centsga of primaqy  chool-age popultion; isIsdes children aged 6-11 ypea
fertility rttes;  -ally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1973                   but adjuted for different lengthe of primary  ducation; for co"ntriss with
for davelopirg countries.                                                                  oniveroal edsc.tion, encrllment may emceed 1007 sines  ooe pepile see below
soolatien Rrovth rate (7.) - total -  -mpon-d *nnu-l growth rate  of mid-year                at above the sfficial school ego
population far 1950-60  1960-70 and 1970-75                                              Adjuted enrolLent ratio - sesendar, school - Computed a  shows  aondas
Ponuletion growth rate (7) - urban - C-eputed Itke growth rtte of total                      education requires at least four yers of ppraved primry ir trnotion;
population; difefrent dofinititen   of acban areas may affect ceparability of              provides genral, vocational or teacher training instrnctiona for Pupils
data aqeng tountrise                                                                       of 12 to iT yars of ge  correspondence cenres arm generally  ecluded
Urban population (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Year of cheslne provided (fir t nd send levels) - Total yers of
definitions of urhbn areas- ny affent conparability of dta among countries.                 chooling; at esaondsry levl, v.cational inotruction may be partially or
co.pletely ecloded.
Ate structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-ago (15-64 year),                 V-cational nrollment (% of seconder,) - Vocatiuo.l inatitntiene inolada
and rettred (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year papulatio.                      technical, industrial or other progrem  which operate independently or
Ago dependency ratio - Ratio af popolation under 15 ood 65 and over to thoes                 departnnts of secondary institutione.
of ages 15 through  I4 ndalt literacy rate (M) - Literate ad1lts (able to reed and weits) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratto of population under 15 sod 65 and over to                  ceotago of total adolt popsletian aged 15 years and  ver
the labor fsrce in age grasp of 15-64 years.
family clamping - acceptare (cunulative  tho-) - Cumulative nunber of acceptors            houing
of birti-costrol devices nndcr ouspic_s of national fonily plannig program              Persons per ro- (seben) - Avrge   nber of persons per roo  in uccupied
sinc  inepion                                                                              conventional dwellings ip orbsn ores; dellisga e  lode n-p           nent
Fmmily plaiog - users t% of married comeo) - P-ccentagee of married women of                 etrucinees and usno..pied prta.r
child-bearing ago (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 merrind           -Otoupid dHellings without pips d water t%) - 0ccupied cenvntienI dwlling
camo in -an  age group.                                                                    in urban end rura  ereawith_t inside or ..steide piped cater fariliti.s
as percentage of a1 occupied dwelling.
Enplsoent                                                                                  Access ti  electricity t7 of al1 dvlltnR) - Cenventional dwellings with
Total labor forco (tho.send) - toonomically active person, itncluding armed                  eectricity in living qurtere as peent f total dwellings in  reb   and
fortes -ad unemployed but ..cludig ho-sewia, etdnts, ta.; definitions                      rural                     '     * as
in v_riose counrteri   ate not comparable.                                              Rur-l dwellins connected to electriity (7.) - Cooreptd s  bsve fgr roI
Labor forco in eoric-Itu.e (7) - Agricultoral lber force (i  farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
hu=tino aed fifho.g) ae parterrnce of tvta1 Iabor force.
Unemployed (7 of labor farce) - UnoPlnyed are osnolly defined as preco-  che              CGonasption
arc able and willisg to take  jib, out of a Job on a given day, rained out               Radio receivers (ntr then Pop) - All type- of receivers for radio bradpsste
of   iob, and seeking sork for a specified nin imo  period not e.ceeding one               to general psbic per thessond of popIltion         lud     lic    d      i
wek; may cot be c-mpotabie b tv   =ncou=triee duo to diffr-ent definitions                 in ountris  and in  ers wha  registration ef radio sets  wa  in  effet;
of une  ployed and source ef data  eg.,   playment office statitics, e-mple                da      r ry not hw  r epsr-sh    sin     mst cntries n*lthd
survYs, compuloory onomploysYnt insrenc                                                    licensing.
Pase  oe(pne thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motorcr-       etn
Inco  distributioc - Psero.togo  of priv-to iec-es  (both in cash and kind)                  a th    ight peerson; occludes eblulste,h he            and  ilitary
received by richest 57t rirhbst 207, poorest 207, and poorest 407 of hous-                 vehicle*.
holds,                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity (khel/yr see case  A-AoI coomptian ef industrial,ceral
publir snd private electricity in kiloatt hronr  par capita, ge nerally
Distribhtion cf laod  u-thip - Pecetoget of led owned by wealthiest 107                     bas d on production data, withot allowance for lessee tn grids bkt allo-
and poorest 107 of lord  onere.                                                           ing for imports and emparta of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual sonsomption in kiloergsa
health   d Ntrltion                                                                           stimated from doestic prod-ctis pls nt imports of n print.
Popslation per physician - Population divided by nuskbr of practicing
physicians qoslified from a medical school at nnirersity level.



- 24 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS           ANNEX I
P-ag-e-3 of 4
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US$ Min.    %
GNP at Market Prices        1,630      100
Gross Domestic Investment    260        16
Gross National Saving         390       24
Current Account Balance       130        8
Exportsof Goods, NFS           65        4
Importsof Goods, NFS          414       25
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value  Added       Labor Force   V. A. Per Worker
(US$Ml0)      %     Thous.  %      US $          _
Agriculture                 512        45      800   73        640         61
Industry                    117        10       90    8      1,300        123
Services                    522        45      200   19      2,610        247
Total/Average         1,151      100    1,090  100       1,056       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75        1975/76
----- YR Million -----------------  % of GNP
Current Revenue                      199         277         381      565         8
Current Expenditure                   272        323         472      604         8
Current Deficit                       -73        -46         -91       -39       -1
Development Expenditures               57        139         185       340        5
External Assistance (net)             117        239         536       609        8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
…-------------- June 30 ------------…------------
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977
------- (YR Million Outstanding End Period) -----
Money Supply                          348      489       640      964    2,028    3,516
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector          103      102        70     -162      -407     -939
Bank Credit to Non-Gov't Sector       108      169       238      394       566    1,474
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP               15       16        17       18        28
Con-umer Price Index                   ..       ..       154      203       237       329
(19i2 = 100) /1
Annual percentage increase-Un:
Money Supply                         29       41        31       51       110        73
Consumer Price Index                     ..             ..       32        17        39
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/   For Sana'a only (fiscal years)         2/  During fiscal year ending June 30.
-^  Not available



- 25 -           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77
----------- Million US$ ----------
Exports of Goods, fob                14        13        12       19
Imports of Goods, cif               194       258       382      730
Trade Deficit                      -180      -245     -370      -711
Non Factor Services, net             14        17        21       -3
Factor Income, net                  117       203       479      889
Workers' Remittances, net         112       191       457      842
Investment Income, net              5        12       22        47
Balance on Current Account          -49       -25       130      175
M & LT Capital, net                  62       126       158      146
Official Grants                    33        93      114       104
Official Loans, net                29        33        44       42
Disbursements                    32        37        47       46
Repayments                       -3        -4       -3        -4
Other Capital, net 1/                11        -3        -2      126
Increase in Reserves (-)            -24       -98     -286      -447
Gross Reserves (end fiscal
year)  2/                          89       187      473       920
EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1977         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
US $ Mln.
Total outstanding            529     Cotton and Cotton Products  59
of which disbursed        292      Coffee                        12
Hides & Skins                 12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-4OR 1976/77       All other commodities          17
%           Total                    100
Total outstanding
and disbursed              1       IBRD/IDA LENDING                 US$ mill.
(as of April 30, 1978)          IBRD  IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed         -  52.6
Through Feb. 1973                  Undisbursed                        -  57.2
Oustanding including
US $ 1.00 = YR  5.00                   Undisbursed                    - 109.8
YR   1.00 = US $0.20
Since Feb. 1973
US $ 1.00 = YR  4.50
YR   1.00 - US $0.22
1/  Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings.
3/  Includes workers' remittances                                May 24, 1978



- 26-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC /1
A.   Statement r" IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1978 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                         (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower        Purpose                IDA       Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                   7.7          0.1
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture   21.2 /2            5.8
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                 11.0           3.9
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply               6.3           2.0
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate          2.3           1.2
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development    10.0               7.6
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                   9.0          0.9
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage         8.1           5.4
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  8.0          6.2
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing            5.2          4.3
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing       5.0           3.9
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage            10.0           9.9
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development           6.0          6.0
Total                                               109.8          57.2
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                               109.8
Total undisbursed                                                 57.2
/1   Two credits of $11.5 million for a Third Highway Project and $10.5
million for a Tihama Development Project II were approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on April 27 and May 18, 1978, respectively.
/2   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1978)
See para. 34.



- 27-                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of $200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about $300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of $120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; $7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered. The road construction is expected to be com-
pleted in the latter part of 1978.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed
specification drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for
preliminary works including camps, access and field roads and extension
offices were awarded to local contractors. Six of them have already been
completed and one nearing completion. Three major contracts, one each for
the construction of diversion weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put
to international tendering. Construction work on the diversion weirs has been
completed, the regulating gates are being installed and the canal will be com-
pleted by October 1978. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established
towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF
have been appointed. ACF's operations in the project are highly satisfactory.
The total cost of the Project was revised to $40.8 million compared with $17.5
million at the time of initial appraisal. At the Government's request the
Association and the Kuwait Fund agreed to provide supplemental f,inancing. The



ANNEX II
- 28 -                       Page 3 of 6
Kuwait Fund approved in December 1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million
and the Association approved on March 30, 1976 a $10.3 million supplementary
credit for the project. The reappraisal estimate of December 1978 for project
completion is expected to be met.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit
and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force, project implementation is now about 24 months
behind appraisal estimates. All site problems have been resolved. Construc-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with 80 percent of institutions anticipated
to be completed by October 1978. With the exception of one school, all equip-
ment and furniture contracts have been awarded and delivery has commenced.
The most critical aspects of the project are the difficulty to recruit expa-
triate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions and the absence of
funds to finance technical assistance and fellowship costs formerly anticipated
from UNDP. The UNESCO Task Force is being phased out by December 1978, but
refinancing of some posts in critical areas would be necessary. The Associa-
tion and the Government are pursuing discussions with some bilateral agencies
in order to rectify this situation.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Civil works are virtually completed with only reservoir testing and
final site work remaining. The drilling and well construction program has
been completed and pipe laying is progressing.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
1975 as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal
estimate which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to
the unexpected increase in building costs that has taken place since project
appraisal. In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's
request, the Association agreed to retain the highest priority items in the
project. The Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Con-
struction works started in February 1976. Two of the three buildings are
completed and the third is expected to be completed by end March 1978.  Many
entrepreneurs have already signed lease agreements with the Industrial Estate
Development Authority and are currently using the facilities. Other parties
have showed interest in either renting factory space or developed plots.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the fall of
1976 progress has been encouraging. Project Management has improved and most
of the staff positions have been filled. Agricultural extension, veterinary
and credit activities are progressing very satisfactorily. Problems of cost
escalation will be met by reducing the number of loans that can be made to
farmers. Well drilling and the village water supply component has commenced.
A contract has been entered into with the Ministry of Public Works for the
rural road component. The ACF component is being implemented very satisfac-
torily.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority is being continued under the Third Highway Project.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Completion of the well drilling program has allowed for the imple-
mentation of remedial works and associated construction in the well fields.
The draft tariff study report has been submitted by the consultants. Govern-
ment's prompt decision to proceed with a reduced scope of works has permitted
the consultants to finalize tender documents for civil works, mechanical/
electrical and pipe installation.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Commendable progress has been made in the physical implementation
of this project which is proceeding on schedule. Completion of construction
is expected by June 1979. The Project Unit staff is supervising all construc-
tion. Preparation of bid documents for furniture and equipment for the eight
project institutions has been completed and bidding is anticipated shortly.
Following the establishment of the National Basic Training Board, an initial
deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic Training Fund. Disbursements
from the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily. Severe constraints have been
placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to lack of
progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for the
project institutions. The Government is aware of this serious situation and
discussions with bilateral agencies are being held.



ANNEX II
- 30-                         Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart, had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project. The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated and the preparation of the silo
site at Hodeidah has commenced.  Four Yemenis are undergoing undergraduate
training in the USA and two are presently undergoing non-graduate training
in the UK in financial management. Bids for the silo, warehouses and bakeries
are being evaluated. Project implementation remains on schedule. A silo
superintendent and an accountant (both local) have been appointed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project manager and practically all expatriate staff are in the
field together with the Co-Manager and some counterparts. Cost escLlation
was resolved in a meeting of co-financiers in London in October 1977 by reduc-
tion and/or reorientation of some components without changing the project
concept. Government sites for the two dairy farms, two slaughterhouses and
the fattening farm have been secured and quotations received for housing,
equipment and well-drilling. The planning phase for construction of the
project components is about complete and it is expected that the project
will now move into the construction phase.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded for the well drilling program and for
the supply of materials for the water system house connections and sewer
appurtenances. The consultants have completed the project reports for
water supply and sewerage as well as for the laboratory installation. The
draft tender documents for water transmission and distribution mains are
under review. Preparation of the water supply and sewerage feasibility
study for the towns of Ibb and Dhamar was delayed due to the absence of
base mapping which is now being provided by the consultants. Completion
of the draft study, however, is still scheduled for September 1978. Award
of the contract for the construction industry study was delayed because
the Government requested additional proposals from consultant firms.
These are now under review.



- 31-                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 17, 1978; Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
The Port Engineer and the engineering consultants have been appointed.
The engineering and soil studies on berth No. 5 have started and are expected
to be completed in the latter part of 1978.



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by YAR to prepare the project:  16 months
May 1976-September 1977
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project: Yemen Textiles Corporation
assisted by Con ultants and
IDA
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:            February 1976
(d) Date of first IDA mission to consider
the project:                                  May 1976
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    December 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:           May 18, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                November 1, 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA: None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit include:
(i) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the Corporation to govern the onlending
terms and conditions of the proceeds of the IDA Credit
(paras. 61 and 72);
(ii) the signing of loan agreement between the Government and
the OPEC Fund for an amount of $1.5 million (paras. 60
and 72); and
(iii)  the signing of a loan agreement between the Government
and the Corporation for an amount of $8.5 million (paras.
61 and 72).
B.   Measures agreed upon include:
1.   that the Government will:



- 33 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i) not implement in the public sector any project
in the textile industry involving investment of
over $1 million beyond the one proposed in this
report without prior consultation with IDA
(para. 47); and
(ii) employ by October 31,1978, consultants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA to carry out
a study of the social, economic, cultural and
educational aspects of increased employment of
women in the textile industry and of possible
measures to increase their employment (para. 45).
2.   that the Corporation will:
(i) employ qualified consultants on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA (paras. 53 and 62);
(ii) submit, by not later than June 30, 1979, a train-
ing program acceptable to IDA, and carry out the
program according to a mutually agreed time
schedule (para. 53);
(iii) submit by not later than June 30, 1980, to IDA
for consultation the consultants' study of the
exact scope, timing and viability of further
modernizing the Sana'a mill (para. 52);
(iv) submit by not later than June 30, 1979 to IDA for
discussion, the consultants' study of marketing
and sales policies and introduce in light of the
study's recommendations such changes in these
policies ;S shall be agreed with the Association
(para. 58); and
(v) not undertake any project or expansion other than
the one proposed involving an expenditure in excess
of $1.0 million until five years from project
completion, without prior presentation to IDA of
evidence satisfactory to IDA that such project or
expansion would not adversely affect the Corpora-
tion's managerial and financial position (para. 64).



