2 3-qt
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 832 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Textile Rehabilitation Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 25, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 832 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1978, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project, with the exception of Part D thereof,
will be carried out by the Yemen Textile Corporation of the
Borrower (hereinafter called the Company) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Company the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from another external
source of finance (hereinafter called the Co-Financier) a loan
(hereinafter called the Co-Financier Loan) in an amount equivalent
to about one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Co-Financier Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Co-
Financier; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Company of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Yemeni Rial" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1988, and ending February 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Company is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Company to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,


﻿-4-
necessary or appropriate to enable the Company to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere wiv:h such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the Company under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to
the Association pursuant to which the Company shall, inter alia:
(i) repay the equivalent in terms of Yemeni Rials of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent (such equivalent to be determined as of
the respective dates of repayment of the proceeds of the Credit so
relent) in equal or approximately equal annual or semiannual
installments over a period of twelve years including a grace
period of four years; and (ii) pay interest at the rate of 7-1/2%
and service charge at the rate of 2-1/2% per annum, on the prin-
cipal amount of the subsidiary loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide the Company, in
the form of a capital contribution, with funds totalling about
38,250,000 Yemeni Rials; such funds to be provided in two install-
ments in the approximate amounts of 10,000,000 and 28,250,000
Yemeni Rials and not later than August 1, 1978 and January 1,
1979, respectively; and (ii) provide the Company, on the terms and
conditions provided under paragraph (b) of this Section, with a
loan in an amount of about 38,250,000 Yemeni Rials; such loan to
be provided in two installments in the approximate amounts of
28,250,000 and 10,000,000 Yemeni Rials and not later than July 1,
1979 and June 30, 1980, respectively.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) employ, not later
than October 31, 1978, consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association, in order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the study provided under Part D of the Project; and (b)


﻿-5-
provide the Association with a copy of said study promptly upon
its completion.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. In order to ensure that any future expansion
in the Borrower's textile industry would not adversely affect the
Company's managerial performance or financial position, the
Borrower undertakes to consult with the Association before author-
izing the implementation of any new textile project involving
investments costing in the aggregate more than the equivalent
of $1,000,000.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes: (a) to enable the
Company to procure its cotton requirements from the most economic
sources; and (b) promptly to provide the Company with all import
licenses and foreign exchange required for the procurement of
such cotton, chemicals, fuel and other inputs as shall be required
for operating the Company's mills.
Section 4.03. The Yemen General Electricity Corporation
(YGEC) of the Borrower is currently implementing, with the assis-
tance of consultants, a study in order to formulate a new tariff
system for YGEC. In recognition of the effect of implementing said
study's recommendations on the financial position of the Company
and in order to enable the Association to exchange views with the
Company on the means most appropriate for securing the Company's
electric needs, the Borrower undertakes to provide the Association
with a copy of said study promptly upon its completion.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall consult with the Associa-
tion, not later than June 30, 1981, on the Company's need, beyond
December 31, 1981, for the continuity of the technical assistance
provided under the Project.
Section 4.05. Without limitations upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, whenever the Company fails
to maintain the ratio, specified under Section 4.04 (a) of the
Project Agreement, of the Company's current assets to current
liabilities so that such ratio drops to a level of less than
1.2:1, the Borrower shall promptly provide the Company with all
funds required to raise such ratio to such level.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Co-Financier Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by December 31, 1978.
(b) The Company shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Company under the Project Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Company will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(d) The Company's Establishment Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Company or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) The Company shall have become unable to pay its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by the Company or by others whereby any of its assets shall
or may be distributed among its creditors.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Co-Financier Loan shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Co-Financier loan Agreement, or


﻿-7-
(B) The Co-financier Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e),
(f) or (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the Company have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and the Company, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action;
(c) the Borrower and the Company have duly concluded an
agreement providing for the loan referred to under Section 3.01


﻿-8-
(d) (ii) of this Agreement and such agreement is in full force
and effect; and
(d) the Co-Financier Loan Agreement has been duly signed on
behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Company, and is legally binding upon the
Company in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Company in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the agreement providing for the loan referred to
under Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Company in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 22, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02, 4.06 and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Central Planning Organization of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a, Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                       Telex:
CENPLAN                             266 YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Yahya Al Mutawakel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Machinery, equip-          4,000,000         100% of foreign
ment and spare                                expenditures
parts
(2) Consultants'               2,200,000          100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(3) Training                     100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  700,000
TOTAL       7,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 may
be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and Replacement of Machinery;
Maintenance and Management
The rehabilitation program will be carried out in two phases:
1.   Phase I - To be implemented by December 31, 1979.
Works under this phase consist of:
(a) replacement of a small number of machines which
cannot be economically or technically reconditioned
or which are excessively labor-intensive;
(b) reconditioning of other machinery through over-
hauling;
(c) improvement of the maintenance services and facili-
ties;
(d) completing the ongoing work for the erection and
putting into operation of about 100 Czech looms;
(e) improvement, through technical assistance and
training, of the Company's operational procedures;
and
(f) the introduction of proper mill planning and
effective administrative and production control.
2.   Phase II - To be implemented during the years 1980 and
1981.
Works under this phase consist of:
(a) replacement or modernization of all the original
spinning equipment;
(b) expanding the weaving capacity through the erection
of about 76 new looms;


﻿- 13 -
(c) rehabilitation of the existing spinning machines
for the production of cotton wool and sewing
thread; and
(d) installation of new yarn dyeing units and replace-
ment- of some of the processing departments'
machines.
Part B:   Buildings, Infrastructures and Utilities
1.   The construction of about 4,200 m2 of buildings in
order to accommodate the new spinning equipment and
looms.
2.   The expansion of the Company's infrastructure and
utilities.
Part C:   Training
On-the-job, local and overseas training for the Company's
staff.
Part D:   Study
The implementation of a study of the social, economical,
cultural and educational aspects of women employment in the
textile industry.
The Project shall be considered to be completed after the
plant has been operated at an average of not less than 90% of its
rated capacity for not less than a twelve-month period. Such
operation is expected to be completed, together with all other
works under the Project, by December 31, 1981.


