Do_mt of
The World Bank
FOR OMC3AL USE ONU
Reput No. P-6147-BY
REORT AND RECONMUD&TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TUE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$120 HELLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
FOR k
RERHAILITATION LOAN
OCTOBER 25, 1993
MI CROGRAPH I CS
RFeport No-. P- 6147 BY
Type: PR
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipieots only n the perfoane of
thei MihAAl dntuie Its contents may not .thwrwise hp ah4oead witbont World Rank anthow,ration-



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Belarussian Ruble
US$1.00 = 4,100 Belarussian Rubles (October 14, 1993)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EBRD -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FSU   -      Former Soviet Union
GDP  -       Gross Domestic Product
GKI  -       State Committee for the Management of State Property
GNP  -       Gross National Product
ICB   -      International Competitive Bidding
IFC    -     International Finance Corporation
IWF   -      International Monetary Fund
MIGA -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBB   -      National Bank of Belarus
PIA    -     Project Implementation Agency
STF   -      Systemic Transformation Facility
VAT  -       Value Added Tax
Project Entity
Project Implementation Agency
Government Fiscal Year
Jsnuuary 1 - December 31



FOX OMCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENIS
PART I. COUNTRY POIICES AND IBRD ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .                               .............. 
I. RecentEEonomicDevelopments  ...................................  I
Bac                          k    g        round .............................................  1
OutuutEdEm ploynentp2 .................................. -  2
Prices and Wages .........................................  2
FiscalDevelopment             ................I ......................  2
Money andC Cdt .........................................  2
Exteral Sector ......................                                                 3
H.   he Govermnent's Enomic Refom Program   ...    ....................  4
A.   The Stabilizaon Program ............................... S
B.      The Structa ReformPogm   ........... ................  6
Pricing, Subsidies and Ditibution Poliis ....................  6
IntenationalTrade ...................................  8
Anti-Monopoly Policy . ...............................   10
Private Secor Development  ............            ................   10
Privatzation of Stat-Owned Entrrie   .......              .............   11
Corporate Govean   of State lpri  ....................   13
Housing Privatization ................................. 14
LandReform .....................................    14
Social Sector Policies  . ...............................   is
M.  Macroeconomic Prpects and External FiinnWgRapemens .............  17
IV.  The Bank Group's Assistance Sategy  ............................   19
A.      Background ad Objectives: Refonms and Uncerinty  ....              .......  19
B.      The Beginning of a Partunhip  ..........................  20
C.      The Lending Program: Suppordng Refoms ...................  21
D.      Implications for the Worldd Bank's Exposure ..................  22
E.      Economic and Sector Work Program  ........................  23
F.      Portfolio M     s_   .................................  24
G.      Other Bank Group Activiies ............................   24
PART It. THE PROPOSED LOAN                 .................          ....................   24
i.     Background amd Rationale fr BRD Involvemen ....................  24
II.    Project Objectives and Description  .............................   25
m.    EnvironmentSa         y  ...........l.            .........................   27
IV.  Project mplemenion.................................. 27
V.      Procurement and  istibuon.................................  28
VI.  Disbursemen. .......................................... 28
VI.   Reporting, Accountg, and Auditing  ...........................   29
Vm.   Areemns Reached .............                        ......... I                      30
IX.    Program Benefits and Risks  ......................   30
PART M.                ......................REI                                  : .........  30
ANNEX 1
ANNEX2
ANNEX 3
ANNEX 4
ANNEX 5
ANNEX 6
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfOlrme nc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciesod without World Bank authoriza itn.
I



REPBLIBUC OF BELARUS - REABllTATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUtJARY
Borrower:          Republic of Belams
Amount:            US$120 millon equivalent
Terms:             Fifteen years' maturity with a five-year grace period at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Objectves
and Description:   lhe objectives of the proposed loan are to: (i) support the Government economic
reform program; (ii) support access of importers to foreign exchange, through
a foreign exchange component; (iii) finance critically needed imported inputs and
esena medicines, to ease the acute shortage of foreign exchange; and
(iv) promote and provide a framework for financial as3istance from other donor
agenies.
Benerits:          The proposed loan would support the Government's economic reform program
and contribute to stemming the decline in output by promoting market-oriented
policy reform and supplying imports for a wide range of sectors. It would also
assist the development of the foreign exchange market. The loan would improve
the balance of payments directly and by catalyzing import support from other
donors. The loan would also finance imports of supplies for environmental
monitoring and health care, which are critically needed for social reasons.
Risks:             The main risk of the proposed loan regards (J) the possibility of policy slippage,
caused by oppor:tion to economic reform that may develop as a result of decline
in employment and living standards. The establishment of a more target-effective
social safety net should reduce this risk. Another significant risk s posed by (ii)
the possibility of insufficient levels of balance of payment support from other
donors. This issue is being addressed through the Consultative Group process
and other donor coordination efforts. Another significant risk is posed by (iii)
the limited capacity to manage the reform process. The Institution Building
Loan, approved in July 1993, is designed to strengthen economic management
and is expected to mitigate this rsk.



Rate o Retur:       Not applicable
Poverty Category:   Poverty-focused opeation
Apprasal Report:   Not applicable
Badbmaed
The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in one trauche upon
effectiveness, which is expecd by November 1993.
Map:               IBRD No. 24768
This documnt has a resticted distribuion and may be used by reipnt oldy in the perfo_mae
of their offidal dutes.  Is contents may not othewise be dilosed wihout Waold Bak



REPORT AND RECOMM1ENDATION
OF T'    PRESIDENT OF THE INERNATIONAL BANK
FOR R]CONSTRUCTON AD DEVELOPMT
TO TOE EXECUlTVE DIRECTORS ON T    OPO   RN WAN
TO TME REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Belarus for the equivalent of US$120 million to provide financial support for the
Govrmen's economic reform program. Tht loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate, with a maturity of 15 years including a grace period of 5 years. Financing for technical assistance
to suppor, a number of measures in the Govement's economic reform program has been obtained in
part from the Institution Building Loan (No. 6093-BY) recendy approved and from other sources.
2.           Formal contas between the World Bank and the Republic of Belarus began in Febnry
1992, and Belar  joined the IBRD, SC, and MIGA during that year. 'Te first Country Economic
Memorandum, enied 'Republic of Belarum: First Steps in Transition to a Market Economy' (Report
No.11349-BY), was distributed to the Board in May 1993.
PART L  COUNTRY POLICIES AND IB1M  ASSIS1ANCE SIRATEGY
1. Recent Economic Devdopments
3.           Belarus has a population of about 10.3 million, and occupies an area of 207,595 square
kilomeers. It is landlocked, and has borders with the Russian Federation, Ukaine, Poland, Lihaa,
nud Latvia. Belarus has limitd n l resourc, but its populton is highly educated and GNP the per
capita is one of the highest in he former Soviet Union (FSU), estimated at US$2,920 in 1992.'
4.           The economy is oriented toward industria production, which reprent neady 40% of
GDP and is concentrtd mosdy in machiney and metallurgy, with a large component of military
industries. As regards tade, Belartus is highly intgr    both within the FSU and witi Easte  Europe.
Prior to the breakdown of the FSU, Belarus ewpored about 40% of its industial output to other republics
of the FSU, and imported from them 90% of its primary energy and 70% of its raw materiaLt.
5.           The dissolution of the FSU was a major shock to the economy. Begining in 1991, the
demand for military pMducts and investment goods was sharply curtailed, and supplies of mworted
enry and raw mateis declined. At the same time the prices of l -.;e commodities increased
subsantially, though they remained well below world levels.
I     Atlas methodology; estimates for economies of the FSU are subjec to more than the usual range
of uncerainty and should be regarded as very preliminary.



2
Output and Employment
6.           The Government's initial response to the terms of trade shock and the loss of export
markets was to rely on existing administrative structures to regulate production and prices, and to remain
in the ruble area to minimize trade disuption. These policies limited the decline In output to about 2%
in 1991, by posponing the necessary structural adjustment to the external shocks. The situation began
to deteriorate in early 1992, when the decline in inter-republic trade affected both the agricultural and
the industrial sectors. It is estimated that in 1992 GDP dedined by about 10%, and an additional decline
of 15% is expected in 1993.
7.          In spite of the drop in GDP, open unemployment has increased slowly w rech about 2
percent of the labor force, but unpaid leave and short work weeks are reported to be increasing. The
progressive hardening of the budget constraint faced by state-owned enterprises and the acceleration of
privaization are however expected to lead to an increase in unemployment starting in the latter part of
the year.
Ptice and NAMs
8.           Following price liberalization in Russia, inflation spilled over to Belarus starting in early
1992. It is esmated that inflation averaged about 1,000% during 1992, and remained very high, at about
25% per month, during the first nine months of 1993. While high inflation was accompanied by high
rates of credit expansion in mid-1992, large price increases in 1993 reflected also further price
liberalization and the adjustment of administered prices.
9.           Real wages fell substantially in 1992. The average real wage is estimated to have
declined by a cumulative 26% during 1991-92. Preliminary estimates for the first seven months of 1993
show an approximaly constant real wage, in average tem.
10.         The Government has followed relatively conservative fiscal policies. The consolidated
Government budget - including republican and local governments - was in surplus until 1992, when a
deficit of about 2% of GDP was recorded. The social funds remained in surplus through end-1992.
Fiscal revenues - including contributions to the socW funds - were maintined at about 40% of GDP,
to support the high level of budgetary expenditures required by extensive subsidies to agriculture and food
processing, and by the assumption of expenditures previously borne by the FSU budget (esecially
military expendiures and relocation and health programs for Chernoby: victims).
11.          The consolidated Govement deficit is expected to increase in 1993 to about 6% of GDP,
a spite of the recent reduction in subsidies to food processing, agriculture and energy, as a result of
declining fiscal revenues following the drop in economic activity. In addition, a deficit of about 3% is
expected to emerge in the social funds.
MM", and Ca&di
12.          Starting in mid-1992, monetary arrangements in the ruble area were complicated by the
introduction and coexitence of different means of payment. In May 1992, a shortage of ruble notes in
Belarus led to the introduction of a parallel currency, the rubel, with a fixed conversion rate of 10 rubles
to 1 rubel, which by end-1992 accounted for 80% of the currency in circulation. Stardig in November
1992, non-cash transactions were denominated in separate units of account, ditinguished by country and



3
with a flexible exchange rate dmined in the "soft currency" auction market. The exchange rate of
the non-cash Belarussian ruble has since steadily depreciated vis-&-vis the Russian ruble, from 1:1 in
November 1992 to 3:1 in October.
13.          These arrangements gradually brougnt Belarus closer to having a n4tional currency. The
process toward a defacto national currency was accelerated by the recent "curency reform" in Russia,
which led to the withdrawal of all pre-1993 ruble notes by the Cntal Bank of Russia; as a result, the
National Bank of Belarus (NBB) also withdrew all pre-1993 ruble notes. Thbis trend progressively
afforded the NBB stronger control over monetary and credit aggregates.
14.          In September 1993 Belarus signed an agreement with Russia and four other former Soviet
republics to establish a new economic and monetary union. The C;overnment of Belarus has indicated
that the objective of this union is to facilitatw economic stabilization and recovery. Within the framework
of this multilateral agreement, and a subsequent bilateral agreement with Russia, Belarus would
harmonize economic legislation and economic policies with those of Russia, as a precondition, to a
monetary union in which the Central Bank of Russia would have the lead role. The agreed schediie of
implementation is very rapid, envisaging the establishment of the monetary union by the begting of
1994. While the Goverment of Belarus has indicated its intention to proceed to an economic and
monetary union as agreed, uncertinties remain on the modxities and on the time frame of the process.
The task of hanwaizing economic legislation is in fact formidable and is likely to require a much longer
time, a: it is supposed to cover issues such as taxation, enterprise activities, financial sector, domestic
and inteational trade. In addition, policy convergence is also expected to be difficult, in particular in
the area of fiscal policy. The benefits of the relatively better fiscal performance of Belarus would in fact
be dissipated unless comparable progress were achieved by Russia.
15.          The framework for credit policy was improved in 1993. A ceiling of 5% of GDP was
imposed on NBB credit to the budget; commercial banks were not allowed to lend to the Government.
Credit auctions were established, to channel a small proportion (approimately 10%) of new NBB lending
at market-determined rates; however, interest rates remaired highly negative in real ex-post tems.
16.          Domestic credit increased substantially in mid-1992, as a result of the replenishment of
working capital of state enterprses and the clearng of imter-enterprise arras that were undertaken as
the inter-republic settlement system was disineng. S ing from the last quarter of 1992, monetary
and credit aggregates grew at a lower rate than retail price inflation, which resulted in a significant
decline in re  terms. In July 1993, the NBB announced that no further generalized settlement of inter-
enterprise arrears and no generalized indexation of working capital of enterprises would be supported by
credit expansion.
17.          The economy remains highly intgrated in the PSU, importing energy and raw materials
and exporting manufactured industrial and consumer goods. While it was traditionally a net exporter,
startLng in 1992 Belarus has rezorded a deficit in the balance of trade with the rest of the FSU, as a resut
of increases in the price of oil and raw material imports and the decline in demand for its exports. In
an effort to support inter-republic trade and to secure supplies of raw materias, the Government entered
into bilateral trade agrement with other countries of the FSU, most importantly with Russia for the
supply of crude oil. These steps have moderated the deterioration of the trade balance with the FSU.
18.          The trade balance with the rest of the world, which historically registered small deficits,
hnproved stg   in 1992, and has since recorded modest surpluses. Tlhe devaluaton of the excmge



4
rate - from 134 at end-1991, to 511 at end-l992, to 4100 in mid-October -has contributed to this trend.
Trade outside the FSU is also amsatvey reglated. Exports are subject to licensing and quotas,
and are heavily taxed: a flat 10% tax is imposed on "hard" currency receipts, and surrender of 20% of
hard curency and Russian ruble recipts at a discount from the market exchange rate is requred for
cerain exports. Additional taxes are imposed in local curreny on exports of raw mateials and
intermediate inputs. Most imports are unrestricted, import tax rat range between zero and 20 percent,
with limited exceptions, in the form of higher rates. Domestic production is, however, protected by the
underauation of the exchange rate in purchasing power parity terms.
19.          Belarus has been proessing toward a unified, market-based exchange rate system. In
November 1992, soft currenc auctions were introduced, where the exchange rate of the non-cas1
Belarussian ruble was determined. In January 1993, the previous multiple exchange rate system for non-
FSU currencies was rationalized, with the introduction of two official exchange rates: the "unified" rate,
determu-I as the weighted average of the exchange rates in the inter-bank market, and the "investment"
rate, set by the National Bank and applied to foreign direct investment transactions and surrender
requiremens of export proceeds. In July 1993, the "invesmn" rate was abolished, and the exchange
rate was temporarily unified, though slrrender requiremns of export proceeds from contracts signe
prior to the abolition of the "investme'w rate continued to take place at a discount from the unified rate.
In response to an acute shortage of foreign currency and Russian rubles, due in part to the disruption
cmsed by the withdrawal of all pre-1993 ruble notes by the Cental Bank of Russa, multiple exchage
rates were temrarily re-introduced in August, both for non-FSU currencies and for the Russian ruble.
The official exchange rates announced by th NBB have since been brought in line with the development
in the foreign currency auction markets, and most adminisative interfrences in the exchage system
have been eliminated.
20.          Belarus is only beginning to accumlate exte    debt. Following an agreement with
Russia in July 1992, the latter assumed Belaus' share of ee    assets and liabilities of the FSU (the
"zero option"). In 1992, external debt contracted with non-FSU sources is estimated at approely
US$160 milion; additonal net dibu n   esmed at US$150 mfllion have taken place in the first
half of ;993. With regard to the FSU, technical credits" from the Central Bank of Russia for Rb.115
billion in 1992 and Rb.75 billion in the first half of 1993 have been recently converted into an inter-
government loan, deminated in US dollars, amounng to US$385 million. According to the agreed
terms, the loan has a 7 year grae period and 15 year final maturity, at zero interest An additioni loan,
for Rb.70 billion, was agreed for the second half of 1993. In aggregate, Belarus has modest positive
balaces in its "technical credits" with FSU countries other than Russia.
H. The Governuent's Em ic Refom Program
21.          Belarus inidated gradually the transfomation of the economy from a centrally planned
system to a maket economy. The first step was the adoption of the Program for Tramition to Market
Economy by the Supreme Soviet in October 1990. Since then, the Government has put in place basic
legislative and institutional infiructu, while much of the economy has remained centrally managed.
The Government has delibertely followed this gradual approach with the objective of avoiding disruption
in supplies, in pardtular of foodst  and energy, and socia unrest.
22.          The pace of reform has substatly accelerated since early 1993. he recent acceleration
of refrm has been as deliberate as its slow start. Tree facors appear to have led to this acceleration:
first, the realization hat te ex al shocks foilowing the dissolution of the FSU could not be reversed,



5
and thus required a deep reorientation of the productive structure; second, the recognition that such
reOrientation could not be achieved with only "tecical adjustments," but required the establishment of
4n incentive framework supportive of efficiency; and third, the completion of the basic reform of the
institutional and legislative framework, which allowed the reduction of direct management of the economy
by the Government.
23.          The Government is committed to restoring macroeconomic stability and to sustaining the
pace of structural reform, and has developed, in cooperation with the international financial institutions,
a program for stabilization and structura reforms to lead the next stage of the transition. The program
focuses on monetary and fiscal po:icies, in order to achieve .i reduction of inflation and external
imbalances, and on structural reforms to support an economic recovery based on a more efficint
allocation of resources, by increasing competition, encouraging private sector development, and reducing
the scope and the size of the public s'-ctor in the economy. The Gover- ent's Memorandum of
Economic Reform Policies (Annex 3) outlines the main measures that the k jvernment intends to take,
over the next 12 to 18 months, to fiurher liberalize domestic prices and international trade, to promote
competition through enty and demonopolization, to improve corporate governance, to accelerate the
privatization of state enterprises and housing. and to begin the privaiaton of land. The Memorandum
also oudines the measures that the Government intends to take to protect the most vulnerable groups and
to faciliate the reallocation of labor during the tranmition.
24.          While important sectal policy issues are addressed through measures aimed at reducing
cross-subsidies and liberalizing domestic and international trade, the Memorandum does not include
sector-specific policis. The Government recognizes that financial sector reform, restructuring of the
industrial sector, and agricultural reform are also critical components of the transformation of the
economy. Measures to address these issues are under preparation, and the Government intds to
continue to work in close cooperation with the international financial institutions, including the World
Bank, to develop comprehensive reform programs for these sectors.
A.    The Sta izaion Program
25.          The Government is committed to restoring macroeconomic stability, and in te first place
aims at reducing the rate of inflation and containing the current account deficit to a level that could be
financed without relying on import rationing. To this end, a stabilization program including monetary
and fiscal measures was formulated in consultation with the International Monetary Fund, and received
support under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF), approved by the IMF Board on July 28, 1993.
26.          The program builds on the strengthening of the framework for credit policy that was
achieved earlier in 1993, and relies on conrol of credit expansion and on achievement of a more realistic
interest rate as main instument of monetary policy. The program enwages a further reduction of the
share of directed credit in total NBB crtit to commercial banks. the target set under the STF is a
reduction of this share fmm 90% in the first half of 1993 to 30% by the end of the year, to be
accomplished by increasing the share of NBB credit allocated through auctions, and by establishing a
rediscount window through which credit will be made available to banks at the refinance rate, up to a
level based on the bank's capitalization. With regard to interest rate policy, while interest rates were kept
at a lower level than in Russia in the first half of 1993, the National Bank is committed to adjusting its
refinane rate in line with the Central Bank of Russia. As a result, the NBB refice rate was increased
from 100% in June to 140% in July, to 180% in October.



6
27.           In order to maintain the government deficit, including the balances of the social funds,
at a level consistent with the monewtary targets and sustainable external debt accumulation, the stabilization
program aims at limiting government expenditures by cutting consumer and producer subsidies, by
containing the growth ox nominal public sector wages to no more than 70% of retail price inflation, and
by maintaining the outlays of the social funds within the existing revenue base. Difficult measures to
limit govemment expenditures have been introduced. All subsidies previously paid at the food processing
stage (for meat, milk, and milk products) have been eliminated, with the exception of the subsidy on
bread. Consumer subsidies on rents, electricity, and other communal services have been reduced, with
tht increase of corresponding tariffs between three and five times in June, and between two and ten times
in October.
28.          The Government is also committed to achieving full current account convertibility. The
Government is committed to full unification of the exchange system on a market basis by the end of 1993,
and has reently taken steps In that direction, including the adjustment of the official exchange rate
announced by the NBB to the level determined in the foreign exchange auction market (see para. 19
above).
B.    The Structural Reform Program
29.          The Government is comnitted to the implementation of fte reform program, and has
subsantially accelerated the pace of structural reform since early 1993, in order to lay the foundation for
an economic recovery based on a more efficient allocation of resources. The Government, in cooperation
with the inernational financial institutions, has formulated a program of structural reforms to lead the
next phase of the transition to a market economy. The program, which includes priority actions to be
implemented during the next 12 to 18 months, focuses on measures to (i) promote competition, in order
to facilitate an economic recovery based on more efficient allocation of resources, (ii) support the
development of the private sector, with the objective of stimulating the restructuring of the productive
sector, and (iii) provide a financially sustainable and incentive-compatible social safety net, in order to
protect vulnerable groups during the transition. The principal elements of this program, their
implementation status, and future actions, are outlined below and in the attached Memorandum of
Economic Reform Policies.
PriciEg. Subsidies and Distribution Policies
30.          The Government intends to eliminate gradually the remaining price restrictions, with the
exception of administered prices for a limited group of necessities, energy products and communal
services, and profit ceilings for a short list of natural monopolies and public utilities. To this end, the
Government has taken several difficult measures in recent monts, including the liberalization of the price
of meat, the reduction of subsidies on foodstuffs and communal services, and the reduction of cross-
subsidies on energy products that benefit agricultural users and households.
31.          The Government has liberalized the majority of prices, with the exception of basic
foodstuffs (bread, milk, and milk products), communal services (public housing rents; electricity, water,
sewage, heat, hot water, radio, telephone, television, gas); public tansportaton; and energy products
(electricity and fuels). As of mid-1993, these goods and services representd only 8% of the value of
the basket of the Retail Price Index; their share in family budgets is however expected to rise substantially
with the recent and projected increases of administered prices to reduce subsidies.



7
32.           Regarding foodstuffs, only bread remains subsidized. As is indic& d, subsidies on meat
were eliminated in June, when fte price was liberalized; subsidies on milk and mik products were
eliminated in July, and the Government intends to continue to adjust their prices in line with costs.
Communal services remain heavily subsidized, in spite of recent price increases: cost recovery was
raisr4 from about 5% Vi the first 9 months of the year to about 20% as of October 1, 1993. With regard
to energy products, although there exist extensive cross-subhidies, both for electricity and fuels, there is
no explicit subsidy. However, in the first half of 1993 implicit subsidies on petroleum products resulted
whtom domestic prices insufficient to cover the procurement of the goods delivered to Russia under the
terms of the barter agreement for crude oil; they were financed with delays in deliveries to Russia. These
implicit subsidies were eliminated in mid-1993.
33.           The Government is committed to further reducing the subsidy on bread, and to adjusting
the administered prices of milk and milk products in line with costs, in order to maintain no subsidies
on these products. In addition, the Government will raise public housing rents and tariffs of communal
services to a level sufficient to increase cost recovery from tLe current level of about 20% to at least 30%
of cost by end-1993. Regarding energy products, the Government is committed to pass through the full
extent of future increases in the cost of energy to domestic usas.
34.           Cross-subsidies on electricity have benefited agricutural users, households, and
governent agencies at the expense of industrial users. As of July 1993, electricity tariffs paid by
agricultural users amounted to less than 1% of production cost, tariffs paid by households amounted to
about 20% of cost, and tariffs paid by government agencies amounted to about 50% of cost; to maintain
no subsidies in aggregate on electricity consumption, tariffs paid by industrial users were equal to almost
twice the cost. Between August and October, electricity tariffs were raised some 150 times for
agricultural users, 3 times for households, and 3 times for goverwnent agencies, so as to recover 40%
of costs for agricultural users and households, and the full production cost for government agencies.
Electricity tariffs charged to other users have been adjusted to a level sufficient to maitain in aggegate
no subsidies on electricity consumption.
35.           Further increases in electricity tariffs will bring cost re. :ery to at least 50% for
households and 60% for agricultural users, by end-1993. Cross-subsidies will be fully eliminated by mid-
1994 except for households, whose electricity tar.ffs will recover at least 70% of cost.
36.           Agricultural users and households also benefit from lower fuel prices than those for other
users. In the first half of 1993, these "priority" users have received diesel and fuel oil rations and
gasoline rations, respectively, at prices that are approximately 60% of those charged to other users. The
Government intends to gradually reduce cross-subsidies on fuels, with proportionately higher increases
in the ration prices than in the other prices, and is committed to eliminating them fully by end-1993.
37.           Producer prices were liberalized in 1991, and remaining price restrictions are limited to
trading enterprises and to 'monopolistic" entrprises, (i.e., enterprises with a share of the domestic
market in excess of 40% for intermediate industri goods, and in excess of 30% for all other produts).
These enterprises are currendy subject to ceilings on their profit margins,2 and are required to notit, ste
Government in advance of price increases.
38.           The Government intends to eliminate gradually all price restrictions on traders, as the
process of the break-up and privatization of public trading enterprises progresses and as new private
2 Profit margins are defined as the mark-up on totl costs, in propordton to either total revemnes
(for traders) or total costs (for producers).



8
enterprises enter the distribution system. To this end, the Government will eliminate ceilings on
distribution and profit margins on all retailers, as of January 1994, and has issued a decree to that effect.
By mid-1994, the Government will eliminate the ceilings on wholesalers, with the exemption of those
retaining a dominant market position. In addition, to increase competition in wholesale trade and
eventually remove all controls on profit margins in trade, by mid-1994 the Govenmment will develop and
implement an action plan to facilitate entry in wholesale and retail trade, including the simplification of
registration and licensing, and the sale and lease of commer'-ial space and transport, and will
demonopolize and privatize on an accelerated basis wholesale and retail businesses (see paras. 50 and 56
below).
39.          As the process of demonopolization of the economy progresses, the Government intends
to eliminate gradually all price restrictions on producers, with the exception of natural monopolies and
public utilities. The Government is committed to reducing the number of enterprises subject to these
"monopoly' profit margin contols by 50% by end-1993, and to further reducing the list of "monopoly"
enterprises, with the objective of including only enterprises with large economies  scale and without
import competition, and public utilities, by end-1994.
40.          Local authorities set administered prices for local utilities, local passenger transport, and
solid fuels (coal, wood, peat) for household use, and determine the ceiling imposed on profits of local
services. The Government will eliminate all profit restrictions that are currently administered by local
authorities, and will phase out subsidies and cross-subsidies on tariffs of local utilities, local passenger
transport and solid fuels for household use, ob the same schedule as for price restrictions imposed by the
central government.
41.          In order to reduce the direct role of the Government in the allocation of resources, to
promote the development of domestic markets, and to reduce effective restrictions on exports, state orders
for industrial products were reduced in 1993 to 17% of corresponding domestic output, from 30% in
1992. The Government intends to fully eliminate by end-1993 state orders that are not related to bilateral
trade agreements or to the Government's procurement for own needs. In addition, the Government will
submit legislation to the Supreme Soviet on public procurement, introducing standard contracts, with the
objective of establishing a competitive and transparent public procurement system. The proposed
legislation will replace the current negotiated pricing practices with competitive practices, including public
notification of procurement plans, invitation to bid, evaluation of at least two bids, etc.
hternational Trade
42.          Belarus is a relatively small country with a limited domestic market and lacks raw
materials and energy sources. Consequently, international trade plays a crucial role. The Government
intends to establish a transparent and neutral trade regime, in order to promote efficiency in resource
allocation and improve inrnational competitiveness.
43.          The trade regime is characterized by high barriers to ex4xrts and virtually no
administrative controls on imports, and reflects the shortage psychology that was brought about by the
dissolution of the FSU. This regime is reinforced by the domestic tax system, in which exports are
subject to value added tax (VAI) while imports are exempt.3 The current regime, combined with the
rductance of exporters to convert hard currency earnings into local currency owing to the absence of
3     This follows from the fact that the VAT uses origin as the principle for tretm   of international
trade, instead of desination, as is commonly used.



9
alternative stores of value in an inflationary environment, has reinforced the undervaluation of the
excange rate.
44.          Exports are subject to a variety of restrictions: quotas, in the form of both minimum
deliveries under state orders and maximum quantities available for exports outside state channels; export
taxes levied in local currency, in the range of 2 to 15%, imposed to prevent the export of goods imported
through bilateral trade agreements; export taxes on foreign currency earnings, levied at a flat rate of 10%;
surrender requirements of 20% of foreign currency earnings, compensated at a below-market exchange
rate (see para. 18).
45.          Imports are subject to very limited quantitative restrictions for health and safety reasons,
in the form of a short list of prohibited and licensed imports (mostly toxic substances, drugs, and
pesticides). Foreign currency can be bought by importers through their commercial banks, upon
presentation of an import contract; no additional authorization is required. Until recently, import taxes
with rates varying between 3% and 80% were imposed on a wide range of goods, for protection of
domestic industries (e.g. tractors, refrigerators, clocks, and watches).' Import subsidies are limited to
imports of grains and pharmaceuticals, and are financed with part of the revenues from the 10% foreign
currency tax and the 20% surrender requirement on export proceeds.
46.          As an initial step toward reforming its international trade policy, the 3overnment intends
to eliminate administrative restrictions on exports, limit export taxes to those goods whose prices remain
controlled, maintain administrative restrictions on imports only for health and safety reasons, and limit
import taxes to a simple, broad-based import tax schedule.
47.          The Government has atready taken important measures in this area since mid-1993. The
requirement that entrprises engaged in international trade obtain a license from the State Committee on
Foreign Economic Relations was abolished in June; currently, any registered business whose charter
specifies the intention to engage in international trade does not require additional authorization. Import
and export controls Qicenses, quotas, and taxes) for FSU and non-FSU transactions were unified in July;
their implementation is however limited, as customs do not yet exist on FSU borders. The Government
recently introduced a new import tax schedule, which consists of four rates, including a zero rate and a
maximum rate of 20%. The import tax schedule has a limited number of exceptions, in the form of
higher tax rates, for the following goods: luxury goods (e.g. jewelry); goods subject to excise taxes when
produced domestically (mostly "sin' products); passenger automobiles 7 year or older; and watches.
48.          In addition to the measures already taken, the Government is committed to elimnating
by end-1993 all quantitative export quotas and licenses, the 10% foreign exchange tax on export
proceeds, and export taxes on all goods with free domestic prices. The Government will not impose
quanitative restrictions on imports in addition to the existing ones, and will not intensify existig
regulation of imports. The Government will submit for approval to the Supreme Soviet a draft Customs
Code, which will include the elimination of current exceptions in the import tax schedule, and the
proposal to eliminate all non-tariff import dues, currently levied at the rate of 0.15%. Finally, import
subsidies will be eliminated at the same time as the 10% foreign exchange tax on export proceeds, with
the exception of subsidies on pharmaceuticals.
4     Import taxes are also levied on selected luxury and "sin" products (e.g., alcoholic beverages),
which are subject to high excise taxes when produced domestically.



10
Ani-MoN oy Policy
49.          The economy is characterized by a high degree of concentration, both in production and
distribution, which resulted from the previous centrally planned system. Breaking up existing monopolies
and large vertically integrated enterprises will be a difficult process, but is of critical importance not only
to promote competition, but also to encourage entry by new businesses and to facilitate privatization.
50.          To this end, the State Anti-Monopoly Committee was established in 1991 and in 1992-93
enabling legislation and administrative regulations were approved. The responsibilities of the State Anti-
Monopoly Committee include monitoring and regulating Imonopolistic" enterprises (defined on the basis
of their market share, see para. 37), and taking action to demonopolize highly concentrated sectors. In
practice, until recently the State Anti-Monopoly Committee has undertaken only the former function,
although plans to break up 23 enterprises are under preparation, and some 40 trading conglomerates have
been identified for priority demonopolization.
51.          As a first step toward the implementation of a comprehensive demonopolization program,
and to test the adequacy of the existing legislative and administrative framework, the State Anti-Monopoly
Committee has begur to break up a major trading conglomerate, which includes processing, transport,
and distribution activities, and accounts for some 65% of wholesale activities in the region of Gomel.
The demonopolization plan was approved jointly by the State Anti-Monopoly Committee, the GKI, the
Ministry of Domestic Trade, and the Executive Committee of the Oblast of Gomel, in addition to the
conglomerate itself. As a result, the conglomerate has been re-organized into 35 functionally separate
units, which are allowed to compete with each other by expanding their established line of business to
other sectois. To complete the break up of the conglomerate, following measures will include the
establishment of separate legal entities and their privatization. On the basis of this experience, the State
Anti-Monopoly Committee is committed to preparing a demonopolization program, including a timetable
for implementaton, for other major trade and distribution conglomerates and highly concentrated
production branches.
52.          The criteria currently used for the identification of "monopolistic" enterprises rely on
narrow product definition and overlook domestic substitutes as well as import competition. As a result,
the number of nmonopolistice enterprises is over-estimated. The task ahead is, however, formidable.
The Government is committed to targeting trading conglomerates for priority action, because of their
importance in the development of a competitive and efficient distribution system, and because of the
limited relevance of technological constraints in their breaking up, which allows more rapid
implementation of demonopolization.
Private Sector Development
53.          The institutional framework for private sector activities has been considerably developed,
and most administrative barriers to entry have been eliminated. Several laws - on property, enterprises,
bankruptcy, forei-a invemtment, labor, and companies - have been enacted. Although some legislation
suffers from having been formulated rapidly and some gaps and inconsistencies remain, the existng
framework is substantially adequate to support private sector activities in the next stage of their
development.
54.          Private sector activity has been steadily growing, though from a very low base.
According to official estimates,5 non-agricultural private businesses account for 16.4% of enterprises,
5     Data from the State Committee for Statistics, as of April 1993.



11
3.5% of employment, and 9.2% of output in the non-agricultural sector. Estimates from other sources
vary greatly.
55.          Private sector businesses include an increasing number of joint ventures with foreign
investors, since the framework for foreign economic activity was substantially liberalized in 1991. It is
estimated that some 700 joint ventures have been established, mostly small businesses in trade and
services, with a total paid-in capital of about US$100 million and employing 8,000 workers.
56.          In spite of this progress, the private sector is still in its infancy, and new businesses face
substantial obstacles. The Government has recently established a unit in the State Anti-Monopoly
Committee with the mandate to work closely with the emerging private sector to promote private sector
development. The Government also simplified licensing and registration procedures in June 1993,
including the elimination of the requirement that a separate license be obtained for engaging in foreign
trade activities (see para. 47). Future actions will concentrate on strengthening the legislative and
administrative framework for private sector activities, improving labor market regulations, and facilitating
access to commercial real estate, which is understood to remain the main constraint to the establishment
of new businesses.
57.          To strengthen the institutional and legal framework, the Government intends to introduce
amendments to the Company Law, to allow for alternative forms of business association, and to enhance
requiremnents for accounting, auditing, and reporting. In addition, the Government intends to further
-eview registration procedures to facilitate entry, eliminate arbitrariness, and shorten the processing
period. On the bases of the review, remedial actions will be taken, including the introduction of
automatic registration of new businesses, the reduction of the list of the activities subject to licensing, and
the reduction of registration fees.
58.          Labor regulations have been substantially liberalized since 1992 with the removal of
restrictions on wage determination in the private sector other than the minimum wage. To further
improve labor regulations, increase flexibility in hiring and firing practices and contractal arrangements,
eliminate impediments to labor mobility, and develop incentives for labor productivity, a comprehensive
labor code is being drafted. This would increase flexibility in the labor market by: (i) extending the
duration of the probation period to at least six months for all categories of workers, (ii) eliminating
restrictions on use of fixed-term contracts, (iii) eliminating special guarantees against layoffs for youths
and women with children, and (iv) eliminating the resident permit requiirement (propiska) for the
accepnce of labor contcs. The Government intends to submit the labor code to the Supreme Soviet
for approval in the first half of 1994.
59.          The limited availability of commercial real estate remains an important constraint to
private sector development. In order to ameliorate this problem, the State Committee for the
Management of State Property (GKI) has prepared, together with the State Committee for Statistics, an
inventory of state-owned unfinished constuction behind completion schedule, and has begun its
privatization on a priority basis. In addition, the Government is committed to removing existing
disincentives and administrative regulations (e.g., tax on receipts from leasing and ceilings on leases) that
discourage the lease of commercial real estate.
Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises
60.          Belarus has implemented significant reforms in the institutional framework for the
privatization of state-owned enterprises. In 1991 the GKI was established, with responsibility for
managing and disposing of public enerprises owned by the central government, and assistng in the



12
management and disposal of public enterprises owned by local governments. Privatization of state
enterprises through management/workers buyouts has been taking place since 1991. on the basis of FSU
legislation. Under this law, 272 enterprises employing some 60,000 workers were privatized in 1991-92.
In 1993, the Law on Privatization of State Property and the Law on Privatization Vouchers were
approved. According to the legislation, two-thirds of state assets will be privatized by 1997, on the basis
of annual programs approved by the Supreme Soviet; one half of these assets will be privatized by the
distribution of vouchers to the general population. In order not to delay privatization until the
introduction of the voucher progran (which is scheduled for mid-1994), the GKI has approved interim
guidelines for privatization prior to the implementation of the voucher program, allowing small businesses
to be fully privatized by auctions and tenders prior to the distribution of vouchers.
61.          Privatization of state enterprises under the new law has begun, following the approval of
the 1993 State Program for Privatization in June 1993, which envisages the privatization of 10% of the
total state assets subject to privatization. Under the program, some 250 enterprises and other fixed
assets' owned by the central government and an additional 450 owned by municipal and regional
governments were identified for privatization by the end of 1993. Of these, about 300 are expected to
be buyouts by associations of workers, and the remaining to be auctions, tenders, and transformation into
joint-stock companies with shares offered for sale in the local stock exchange. As of ;ctober 1, 1993,
87 enterprises and other fixed assets had been privatized (30 republican units and 57 municipal); of these,
39 were privatized by auctions and tenders. In addition, the OKI has initiated the corporatiation and
preparation for the sale of 3 large enterprises, with technical assistance from EBRD.
62.          Small scale privatization has been given priority by the 1993 State Program for
Privaization. Most small businesses are owned at the local level, and their privatization is controlled by
the local authorities,7 although the GKI is responsible for providing technical support. As a result, the
status of local privatization varies greatly. Forty-eight out of 158 municipalities and four out of seven
regions (oblast) had approved privatization plans, as of October 1993. Of these, the city of Minsk,
reportedly the most active in privatization to date, has already privatized 80 small businesses, and plans
to privatize an additional 180 in 1993, mostly retail outlets. A pilot program for the privatiaon of
small businesses by auction is under way in the city of Brest, with technical assistance provided by lFC.
in two additional regions - Mogilev and Gomel - privaization by auctions and tenders is under way.
63.          The Government intends to develop the institutional ftmework for mass privaizaton by
vouchers, as mandated by the Law on Privatization Vouchers which was approved in July 1993, by
establishing mechanisms for rapid, equitable, and incentive-compatible distribution to the general
population. By the end of the year, the GKI will prepare implementing regulations, including provisions
to allow for adequate flexibility in the application of the requirement that 50% of assets be privatized by
vouchers, will specify terms and buyout price for leases, and will establish trading arrangements for the
vouchers. The distribution of vouchers to the population will be completed by mid-1994.
64.          According to current targets, set by the Supreme Soviet, the process of privatization of
state-owned enterprises is expected to be completed by 1997. This target is ambitious, given that most
public enterprises owned by the central government are large, and given the experience with privatization
in other countries. Achieving the Government's objective will require that, over the next four years,
6     These include buildings, unfinished construction, military installations to be converted to civilian
uses.
X     Responsibilities for local privatization are allocated to regional and municipal soviets and their
executive committees, in a manner similar to their allocation to the Supreme Soviet and GKI at the central
level.



13
annual programs for the privatization of enterprises set - and implement - higher targets than the 1993
program. To be able to implement privatization rapidly, the Government has undertaken an extensive
program of institution building for its privatization agency, which has been financed in part by the World
Bank's Technical Cooperation Program, and is currently supported in part by a grant from the World
Bank's Institutional Demelopment Fund and the Institution Building Loan, approved earlier in 1993.
Corporate Governance of State Enterprises
65.          Since the process of privatization of state enterprises will require time, and since some
activities, such as public utilities, will remain under state ownership in the medium term, imposing a hard
budget constraint on state-owned enterprises and improving their autonomy and accountability will be
crucial to stabilization and to economic restructuring. Those policies are also important for private sector
development and privatization, to prevent unfair competition by state enteprises facing softer constraints,
and to reveal profitability to prospective investors.
66.          The establishment of an adequate corporate governance system is meaningfil only if
accompanied by the imposition of financial discipline. Under the new monetary policy guidelines, as
discussed above (para. 15-16), measures are being taken to promote the allocation of credit to the most
productive uses and to reduce credit subsidies. As a result of these measures, state enterprises will be
forced to become more self-reliant in mobilizing financial resources on competitive terms. In addition,
existing tax exemptions and privileges, both legislated and granted on an ad hoc basis, will be phased out.
67.          The Government recognizes the importance of allocang and monitoring closely transfers
to public enterprises, to ensure that the costs of subsidizing activities or enterprises are transparent and
that Government transfers to activities or enterprise are consistent with restructuring and downsizing.
To this end, the Ministry of Finance will establish a system to allocate and monitor subsidies, current and
capital transfers, tax breaks, tax arrears, and credit subsidies from the Government to state enterprises.
68.          In introducing measures to stegthen autonomy and accountability, the Government
intends to give priority to large state entrprise, which are the ones most likely to require close
monitoring and substntial restructuring, both to avoid budgetary pressures and to facilitate their
privatization. At the same time, the Government recognizes the need to refrain from corporatizing
associations, amalgamations, or conglomerates, which will be broken up prior to corporatization, in order
to facilitate demonopolization and privatization.
69.          To accelerate the transfoaion of large state enterprises into open joint-stock companies
and to strengthen their corporate governance systems, the Government has approved in August-September
1993 a standard charter for the corporatization of state enterprises and accompanying regulations, which
specify the procedures for the appointment of the board of directors and the manager and their respective
responsibilities. On the basis of this charter and enabling regulations, the board of directors is invested
with the responsibility of maximizing profits; the board is also invested with the authority to hire and fire
the manager and to dispose of productive and other assets of the enterprise, without GKI approval up to
an indexed limit, set equal to 500 minimum wages. This measure is expected to contribute substantially
to managerial autonomy, as it removes the power of branch ministries and "associations' to hire and fire
managers. In addition, it is also expected to facilitate divestiture of subsidiary activities and sale of idle
real estate, by limiting the involvement of the GKI to authorizing only the disposal of assets in excess of
the specified limit.
70.          On the basis of the approved standard charter, the GKI will transform the 10 largest state-
owned corporations and 10 additional voluneers into open joint-stock companies, and will appoint board



14
members, including professionals from outside the Government, by mid-1994. A list of poteial board
members, from which appointments can be made and including qualified non-government professionals,
is being prepared by the GlI.
71.          To strengthen monitoring and performance of state enterprises while avoiding the re-
introduction of the previous regine of direct involvement by the Government in management decisions,
a unit will be established in one of the core ministries - the Ministry of Finance or the GKI - to set
performance targets and the monitor financial performance of corporatized state enterprises. Current
statistical reporting requirements will be reviewed, to simplify reporting and develop management
information tools - such as cash flow, cost accounting by product, etc.- within the context of current
accounting practices. Uniform accounting and auditing standards will be introduced for public and private
enterprises to avoid the coexistence multiple accounting standards in the economy.
Housing Privatization
72.          Legislation on housing privatization was approved in 1992. Prior to the introduction of
this legislation, most housing units in rural areas were already privately owned. Since 1992, some
180,000 units have been privatized, corresponding to 11% of total public housing units. In addition,
about 12% of total households, which did not occupy a separate unit but were on the waiting list for
public housing, or which did not have the right to buy the housing unit they occupied (e.g., households
living in military bases), received housing privatization vouchers, which tLey can redeem against new
housing.
73.          One important factor contributing to the slow process of housing privatization has been
the lack of incentives for households to buy their apartments. Purchase requires on average the payment
of 58% of the assessed value of the apartment, which is extremely low as assessed values are maintained
at their nominal 1991 levels.8 In addition, the payment of a "privatization" fee, set at Rb.1,500 as of
August 1993,9 is required. In spite of these extremely favorable purchase terms, rents have remained
comparatively lower, and renters cannot be displaced by privatization if they choose not to buy their
apartment. The recent and prospective increases in rents should lead to an increase in applications for
housing privatization. Some additional delay has also been caused by the length of the admir-strative
process, which by law should be completed within two months but is reported to actually require three
to four months.
74.          In order to accelerate the privatization of housing, the Government intends to introduce
amendments to the legislation to eliminate remaining restrictions on housing privatization (e.g., veto
power of state farms and collectives) and on re-sale of privatized housing (e.g., prohibition on resale
within 3 years of privatization).
Land Reform
75.          A land reform law, envisaging full-scale privatization of agricultural and urban land, was
introduced for consideration by the Supreme Soviet in 1992, but was subsequently dropped. In its place,
the Law on Land Ownership was approved in June 1993, with more limited scope. This law permits
8     On average, the assessed value was Rb.490 per square meter. Given an average size of 63 square
meters per housing unit, the average assessed value per housing unit is Rb.3 1,000, of which the average
payment is estimated as about Rb.18,000. The payment can be effected in installments over a 40-year
period.
9     At that time, Rb.1,500 was equivalent to about one weekly minimum wage.



15
private ownership by small holders on some 2 million hectares (20% of arable land) and by individual
homeowners on an additional 500,000 hectares. The law doubles the amount of land which is currendy
used, under lease arrangements, for subsidiary agriculture and individual homes; however, it maintains
the limit of individual plots at 1 hectare for agricultural use, and at 0.25 hectare for individual homes.
The law does not address the issue of land used by state and collective farms, which emcupy most arable
land. In addition, the law does not modify the regulations on private farms, which illow individual
farmers to lease up to 50 hectares, with the right to bequeath the lease or to transfer it to close relatives,
but not to transfer it to a third party without the authorization of the local government. Under these
regulations, some 58,000 hectares of arable land are leased by 2,600 private farms.
76.          The Government is preparing implementing regulations for the new law, including
measures to ensure the transferability of lease rights, and has initiated the preparation of a cadastre for
registration of land tenure and mortgages. The Government intends to strengthen the existing institutional
framework for land reform by introducing amendments to the Law on Land Ownership to eliminate
restrictions on resale, lease, and use of small plots under private ownership.
77.          While they are necessary to improve the legislative framework for land use, these
measures will not be sufficient to promote the restructuring and privatization of agriculura enterprises,
which will require the establishment of clear, secure, and tradeable tenure rights for agricultural land,
and the development of an active, transparent, and competitive land market. The Government recognizes
that the new Law on Land Ownership is only a first step, and that a comprehensive land reform will be
necessary to achieve these objectives. The Government, however, intends to introduce gradually a
program of privatization of agricultural land.
78.    The Government intends to submit to the Supreme Soviet a law on the privatization of urban
land, including the land currently occupied by enterprises and residential housing other than individual
houses, for consideration in the faIl 1993 session, and has prepared a draft law.
Social Str Policies
79.          Price liberalization, removal of subsidies, enterprise rtruc , and other labor market
adjustments will undoubtedly affect the living standards of the population during the transition. Some
population groups, especially the unemployed, the elderly, and families with nmnerous children, are
likely to suffer most during this period. The erosion of savings owing to inflation, and the small size of
the informal sector, give these groups few opporatities to protect themselves against significant drops
in their real income. The establishment of an effective social safety net is clearly necessary to minmize
the social costs of adjustment, and is an essential part of the Government's economic program.
80.          Ensuring that the most vulnerable are protected during the transition requires significant
reforms in the existing social protection systm. First, the drop in real incomes and the rising trend in
unemployment are creaing new demands that require both significant resources and the design and
implementtin of new policies. Second, the financing of the existing system is facing increasing
difficulties, owing in particular to the decline in the tax base and revenues. Third, sustainability and
efficiency considerations have not been taken into account in the design of some of the current social
security and welfare programs, which are ill-adapted to the functioning of a market economy. Thus,
ensuring the financial sustainability of an effective social safety net requires both the restructuring of the
existing social protection system and better targeting of benefits toward the most needy. The Government
recognizes these issues and has already taken several measures in this direction.



16
81.          To provide income support to the unemployed, an unemployment benefit scheme was
introduced in 1991. The period during which unemployed are covered is limited to six months and the
level of benefits cannot exceed two minimum wages, so as to avoid work d.sincentive effects. Benefits
are financed through an Employment Fund which derives its revenues from ai 1% payroll tax. 'he fuid
is currently in surplus and only 10% of its revenues are spent on unemployment benefits. Although it
is difficult to predict the growth of unemployment, a fivefold increase in the number of unemployed could
occur by mid-1994. To contain expenditures within available resources, the Government intends to
tighten fiuther eligibility conditions and to implement flat-rate unemployment benefits, as soon as 50%
of the fund's resources are spent on unemployment benefits. In particular, s1igibility criteria will exclude
new labor market entrants and re-entrants, and will extend the required mnimum employment period.
82.          The Government is committed to implementing policies that facilitate the process of labor
force reallocation, by lowering the costs of job search for the unemployed and by improving their work
opportunities. Employment services were established in 1991, and are providing job placement services
and carrying out retraining programs. They are also administering public works programs. The 1993
program, currently under implementation, includes further strengthening of active labor market programs,
in particular retraining. The Government now intnds to evaluate the effectiveness of these rraining
programs, and will design and implement a monitoring system by mid-1994. The Government will also
specify the level of financing of active measures from resources of the Employment Fund, to avoid a
possible crowding-out of these programs by increasing expenditures on unemployment benefits.
83.          The Government recognizes the need to monitor closely the expenditures of the social
prtection system, which amounted to 12% of GDP in 1992 and are curently funded by a 42% payroll
tax10 To facilitate financial management and cost containment, separate financial accounts will be
established, by the end of 1993, for each major progrm and risk (old age and survivors, occupational
injuries, disability, sickness, and family allowances). In addition, to reduce the financial pressures on
the pension system, the Government will modify the indexation mechanisms for pensions and impose
ceilings on higher level pensions. The Government will abstain from fuirther increases in social security
contributions, in light of the high level already in place.
84.          In addition to these short-term measures, aimed at managing the pension system during
the transition, the Government is committed to preparing a comprehensive pension system reform based
on full costing of options under altenaive economic and demographic scenarios. By December 1993,
a policy unit will be established within the Ministry of Social Security to prepare the reform. With the
objective of ensuring financial sustainability, the following _msures will be considered: revision of
indexation mechanisms, lengthening of the period considered for the calculation of pensionable wage,
increase in required working tume and elimination of exemptions, lowering of reduction replacement rates,
of the gap between maximum and minimum pensions, and provision of incentives for delaying retirement.
85.          Given resource constraints, social assistance policies will only be effective if properly
targeted toward the most needy. To free resources, the Government has started to reduce the number
of families receiving allowances for children aged 3 to 16. Means testing was introduced in 1991 and
led to a 42% reduction in the number of families eligible for benefits. A further tightening of eligibility
criteria, restricting allowances for children aged 3 to 16 to families with a per capita income not
exceeding 2 minimum wages, was submitted for the approval to the Supreme Soviet in October 1993.
In addition, the Government has just completed a review of in-kind benefits and special privileges granted
to particular groups, with the objective of monitoring their costs. It is also undertaking an analysis the
10    In addition to payroll taxes for social protection amounting to 42%, a 16% payroll tax is levied
to fund Chernobyl-related expenditures.



17
of living conditions of the population to identify the characteristics of the poorest socioeconomic groups
and to assess the incidence of poverty. On the basis of this analysis and the level of available resources,
social assistance programs will be redesigned and new targeting criteria and delivery methods will be
introduced by the end of 1994.
m.  Macoeconomic Prospecs and Extemal Financing Requirements
86.            Owing to the uncertainty concerning output and trade developments in the rest of the
FSU, the speed of adjustment of the import price of oil to world levels, the possible re-establishment of
an economic and monetary union with Russia, and the reliability of statistical data, medium-term
macroeconomic prospects can be quantified only on an indicative basis.
87.            The most crucial external assumptions concem the level of economic activity and inflation
in the FSU, in particular in Russia, and the speed of adjustment of the import price of oil to world levels.
In the scenario presented below, it is assumed that Russian output continues to decline, though at lower
rates, through 1995, and that ruble zone inflation averages 850 percent in 1993 but decreases rapidly
(reaching single-digit annual levels by 1997). The price of imported oil is estimated to average about 60
percent of the world price in 1993, and to reach world levels subsequently.
Table 1: Main Assumptions
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__--------------------------
1992     1993      1994     1995      1996          2000
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------------
GDP Growth Rate in Russia                   -191     -15S       -8X      -1X        2X            51
GDP Deflator Inflation in Russia           1354X     8501      100X      301       15X            51
IMport Price of Oil (Rb. per ton)          4700    67236   135120   178578   187928          198212
World Oil Price (US$ per ton)                17       16        17       17        18            21
Ratio of lmport Price to World Price         25X      601      1001     1001      1001          1001
World Trade Growth Rate                     4.5S     5.61      5.8X     5.81      5.8X          5.81
MUV Inflation Rate                          5.1%     1.31      2.2X     2.81      2.81          2.81
LIBO  (six-month US$)                       3.81     3.31      3.81     4.51      5.01          6.01
88.            The macroeconomic outlook presented below is derived on the basis of these eivnal
assumptions and a policy framework consistent with successful but gradual implementation of the
Govermnent's reform program. The establishment of competitive markets, the shift of resources toward
the tradeable sector, and the introduction of energy conservation measures will be necessary components
of this policy framework.
89.            Quantifying economic outcomes in this policy framework is particularly difficult, as it
envisages deep structural changes taking place in response to the re-alignment of relative prices and the
liberaization of domestic markets. Despite these uncertainties, however, some basic elements of an
indicative medium-term scenario can be identified. A gradual reform path is expected to lead to a gradual
decline in economic activity, followed by a moderate recovery, starting in 1996. This would be
accompanied by a gradual shift in the composition and the direction of trade, away from Belams'
traditional FSU markets. Continuing dependence on energy imported from Russia would however result
in persistent, sizeable deficit with that country.



18
90.             In the short run, economic prospects and in particular foreign trade would continue to be
dominated by the evolution of import prices of energy products. Over the medium period, however, the
requirements of restructuring enterprises and their ability to compete internationally are expected to be
the main factors determining the strength of the economic recovery and the external balances. While the
comparative advantage of Belarus at international prices remains to be established, it is expected that the
current balance between agricultural and industrial production will continue, although substantial re-
allocation within these two sectors - away from resource-intensive animal husbandry and capital-intensive
heavy industry - will be necessary.
91.             This illustrative scenario is quantified in table 2 below. Relatively optimistic assumptions
on availability of external financing - gross disbursements from the rest of the world averaging US$500
million per annum, and modest inflows of direct foreign investment rising toward the end of the
projection period - and relatively conservative assumptions on export performance and on terms of
foreign loans, would still leave unidentified financing requirements averaging US$400 million per annum
between 1995 and 2000.
Table 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
_----------------------------------------------------__-----------------------__--------------------
1991    1992   1903   1994    1995    1996         2000
--__-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Real Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                    -10.0  -15.O  -7.01    O.O    1.51        5.01
Real per Capita Growth Ra es:
Private Consumption                             -49.92   -3.6X  -2.9X   1.4S    0.77         5.41
Debt end Debt Service CLT+nMF+ST):
Total DOD (US$ m)                                401    1128   2036    2888    3718         6312
Debt Service (USS m)                               0       58    183    314      460        1230
Debt Service/Exports                             O.O    1.61    3.62    5.22    6.41       11.61
Gross Investment/GDP                       32.31  33.71   27.01   23.02   21.01   21.9X       23.21
Domestic Savin8s/GDP                       36.51   34.92   18.72   18.01   16.41   18.61      21.51
BoP Resource Balance/GDP                    4.22    1.21   -8.31   -5.01   -4.61   -3.31      -1.71
Public Sector Deficit (-) or Surplus/GDP j/ 4.22  -2.41   -9.21  -11.81   -8.0X   -6.01       -3.5Z
GDP Deflator (2 erowtb rate)               81.81 1450.02 1000.01  100.01   30.02   15.01       5.02
Real Exchange Rate (1992-100)                     100.01   58.52  33.91   31.81   28.4Z       25.41
Tenns of Trade Index (1992-100)           151.82  100.02  76.81   76.91   78.22   83.62       90.51
Exporta (GNFS) Volme Growth Rate                  -28.61  -13.12  -5.31    9.61    7.02        7.42
Imports (GMPS) Volume Growth Rate                -49.21  -17.81   -9.91    9.12   10.72        8.32
DoP Resource Balance                       1703      72   -747    -744   -739    -619         -474
Financing Gap                                              142    528      508    584          617
I/ Including the social funds.
92.             With regard to the mobilization of exernal financing, the IMP's Systemic Transformation
Facility provides for a second purchase of US$100 million, which could be drawn in 1994. Additional
multilatera and bilateral resources would have to be sought, including from Russia. If the gap is
financed with non-eoncessional official loans and commercial credits, it would result in an accumulation
of external debt of about US$6 billion, or about 22 of GDP, by the year 2000. During the same period,
foreign curency reserves would increase to about US$1 billion or about 5 weeks of imports (up from
about one week of imports), providing substtial comfort for creditworthiness concerns.  In this
perspective, the development of a solid export base will be necessary, but not sufficient, to maintain



19
creditworthiness. To this end, the mobilization of alternative, non-debt, forms of external financing could
play an important role. Such a strategy would however require the development of an adequate financial
infrastructure to mobilize and allocate non-debt financial resources, as well as the establishment of some
measure of convertibility.
93.          Macroeconomic prospects and financing requirements could be substantially affected by
a different path to structural reform. More rapid reform would lead to deeper decline and more buoyant
recovery than projected in this scenario, and presumably to larger financing needs; these could be
sustainable as medium-term prospects would be strngthened. Similarly, lack of moveirLent or reversal
of reform would be expected to result in a more protracted decline in economic activity, and endanger
creditworthiness over the medium term.
IV. The Bank Group's Ass_itae Shatg
A.    Background and Objectives: Reforms and Uncertainty
94.          The World Bank's assistance strategy aims at supporting Belarus' transition to a private
sector led market economy. The strategy balances support for the implementation of rapid reforms,
inherited conditions that constrain the pace of adjustment, and the recognition that fundamental choices
which will bear on the country's development have not yet been made. This is a preliminary strategy
which will be reevaluated as our understanding of the economy deepens and the World Bank's
relationship with Besarus develops. The Government and the World Bank have discussed the strategy
in broad terms.
95.          TheIMF's recently-approved Systemic Transformation Facility andtheprogram supported
by the Rehabilitation Loan demonstrate the willingness of the authorities to proceed with market-bsed
reforms. These agreemen  represent a commitment to achieve macroecouiomic stabilization, promote
competition, provide a leading role to the private sector, and ensure effective and affordable social
protection, but the debate in the Government on the pace of reforms contines. This has resulted in the
adoption of a cautious and gradual approach, in particular in the promotion of the role of the private
sector. The World Bank's strategy aims at consolidating the commitment to reforms and supporting their
progress at a pace that would provide the best chance for their success.
96.          The proposed strategy takes into account realities that constrain Belarus' development
options. Insttutional arrangements within Belarus are not yet adapted to the needs of a private market
economy. Existing production patters are extremely resource-intensive, reflecting investment decisions
of planners who perceived energy, raw materials and other resources as cheap and readily available. As
a result, competitiveness on world markets remains limited. For instance, energy resources are almost
entirely imported, yet in 1991 Belarus consumed about 70 percent more energy than countries with
similar per capita incomes. Transport infrastructure is geared to trade with the rest of the PSU and is
not well adapted to a more diversified trade pattern. Environmental conditions reveal the low price which
planners attached to water and air resources. The constraints imposed by the structure of production
inherited from the previous centrally-planned system cannot generally be dealt with in the most expedient
manner as their removal has nWor social consequences. The World Bank's initial interventions and
proposed strategy would help the Government to develop meamures and actions to deal with these
constaints in the context of steady progress in the transition.



20
97.          Belarus has just recently emerged as an independent country and is only beginning to
grope with the task of defining its strategic development agenda. This has to be done while the country
fas unusual uncertainties and during a time when political Institutions and decision-making processes
are still evolving. It has also to decide on the nature of its relations with neighbc-ing countries. For
example, Belarus has traditionally had close ties with Russia, and conditions in that country will continue
to have a substantial impact on Belarus in the future.
B.    The Begnning of a Partnerdlp
98.          During the year and a half of association with Belars, the World Bank has developed
policy analysis and advice, provided technical assistance, and contributed to the introduction of Belarus
to the international community. Responding to requests of the authorities, the World Bank began an
extensive program of analysis of the economy, inidally through the Technical Cooperation Program and
more recently through the economic and sector work program. The economic reform program supported
by the proposed Rehabilitadon Loan draws extensively from the economic work conducted over this
period. As part of this work, the World Bank prepared the first Belarus Country Economic
Memorandum, which was distributed to the Board in May 1993. Assistance was provided to the
development of the privatzation program, social sector policy reform, and environmental programs.
Sector work has been undertaken in agriculture, labor market, health, and enviromnental issues, and first
drafts of reports in these areas have been prepared. A conference on environmental issues in Belarus was
held in September 1993, at which the Government's environmental strategy, prepared in cooperation with
the World Bank, was presented.
99.          Technical aistance and other institution building activities in support of high priority
needs have also been conducted during this initial period. A grant was recenty approved from the
Institutional Development Fund to support the development of the legal and methodological framework
for privatization and demonopolization, and for the adoption of new accounting systems in the banking
sector. With the objective of building local capacity to design and implement market reforms, the World
Bank conduicted seminars in Belarus on social safety net issues, aounting, and procurement. In July
1993 the World Bank approved its first lending operation to Belarus, an Institution Building Loan of
US$8.3 million. That project focuses on strengthening economic management in sectors that are essenti
to build the foundation for further reform: (f) resource mobilization, (ii) enterprise reform, (iii) the
bankdng sector, and (iv) social sector reform. In addition, in the area of natural resource management,
a grant has been approved under the Global Environment Facility to assist the protection of forest
bio-diversity, and implementation of that program is underway.
100.         At the request of the Government of Belarus, the World Bank has decided to establish
a Resident Mission in Minsk. The Resident Mission, which will be opened by mid-1994, will contribute
greatly toward mainaiing an effective workine relationship between the Govemment and the World
Bank and will assist the implementation and supervision of World Bank projects, and monitor and report
on Belarus' economic and financial station and developments. A key responsibility of the Resident
Mission wi;l be to assist aid coordination efforts of the Government, including assistance to identification
of external aid and borrowing priorities.
101.         With the objective of introducing Belarus to the international community and mobilizing
resources to support its efforts to reform and strengthe i institutions, the World Bank organized the
pre-Consultative Group meeting, which was held on May 24, 1993. This framework provided an
oppornity for coordination of technical assistmce activities by several donors and for mobilizing
financing for the Government's instituion building program. A Consultative Group meeting is scheduled



21
for October 27, 1993, to coordinate the international effort to fund the external resource needs of the
transition process.
C.    The Lending Progran: Supportng Reforms
102.         Depending on te breadth and pace of the stabilization and structural programs, the leve!
of World Bank assistance to BeJarus could be envisioned according to three possible scenarios.
Mauroeconomic adjusunent and implementation of sectoral reforms would call for substantial financial
support from the World Bank. A higher level of lending could be envisioned to support significant and
comprehensive implementation of reform measures. The absence of a stabilization program or a
diminished structural reform effort would lead to more limited lending, focusing on investment and
institution building support.
103.         A program associated with the adoption of a macroeconomic stabilization program
supported by the IMP and prtial structural reforms would call for a sector-argeted c.proach for World
Bank project interventions. If Belarus were to follow this path, the World Bank's financial support would
be around US$450 million over FY95-97, including two sector-focused adjustment operations and four
to six investment operations. This program would facilitate the mobilization of resources from the
international financial community through cofinancing of the sector adjustment and investment operations
and would also provide the basis for the Consultative Group process.
104.         Under this scenario World Bank sector operations would be directed toward t"ose sectors
where reform implementation would be achievable and would be based on an assessment as to where the
reform agenda could be encouraged most and which sectors would benefit most from this approach. At
the present time it could be expected that the first of these would address the nexus of reform needs
within the enterprise and financial sectors. This operation would promote privatization of small, medium
and large-scale enterprises, restructuring of large enterprises and major sub-sectors, demonopolization,
private sector development and foreign investment. In addition, it would support policy reform and
msutional stengthening of the banking sector. The second sector adjustment operation could be
expected to support the transition to a market economy through assisting the Government to address the
social cost of adjustment. The operation would assist in reforming the social security and welfare
system, protecting vulnerable groups and instituing appropriate human resource strategies and programs.
105.        Investment projects would complement the efforts undertaken at the macroeconomic and
sectoral levels to promote efficiency and restore gwwth and would begin to address the constraints to
development within Belarus which have been identified. In addition to supporting restructuing and
institution-building at the microeconomic level, these operations would also provide needed foreign
savings and mobilize cofinancing. Project preparation would involve other members of the intrnational
finacial community early in the process as a means of catalyzing additional flows of official and pnvate
resources.
106.        Investment projects are presently being prepared in forestry, flood reconstruction and
energy. The forestry project, which is designed to improve management and develop export potential,
is currendy being appraised, and a possible flood reconstruction project to be prepared on an emergency
basis is unt.-r consideration. A private enterprise development project, responding to an urgent request
of fte Governmen to provide invetment support for the emerging private sector and newly privatized
enterprises, is under consideration. Further investment interventions could be developed in energy
conservation, agriculture, and social services.



22
107.        If the Government were to follow an accelerated and more comprehensive program of
stucua  reform, this would lead to a significantly larger level of World Bank assistance to Belarus.
Such a program would require the pursuit of a strong stabilization program, rapid economic liberalization
promoting the emergence of a competitive and efficient market ecoaomy, fast progress in giving the
leading role to the private sector in the country's development, and a quick move to establish a social
protection system that is targeted to the most critical needs. Broad support within Belarus for a program
along these lines, particularly with respect to implementation of privatization, elimination of state orders,
and trade liberalization, would allow the World Bank to provide financial support on the order of US$600
million over a three-year period. It would also facilitate even greater mobilization of resources from the
international financial community notably in the context of the Consultative Group process.
108.        If Belarus were to proceed according to this scenario, World Bank financial support would
take the form of economy-wide and sectoral adjustment operations and investment lending in a number
of sectors. An Economic Reform Support Loan would follow the Rehabilitation Loan and assist progress
on structural reform across a broad front. It would be supported by two sector adjustment operations.
As in the intermediate-case scenario, at present it might be expected that the sector operations would be
directed toward enterprise and financial reform and development of more appropriate social sector
policies.
109.         Under the strong reform scenario, there could be six to eight investment projects over
the three year period. Investment projects would address constraints across a broad spectrum within the
Belarus economy, including private enterprise development, forestry, energy conservation, agriculture
development, flood reconstruction, reconstruction oftransport facilities and other infastructure, municipal
services and social services upgrading. World Bank sector work on the environment could also lead to
an operation in this area.
110.         Limited reform implementation would result in a severely curtailed World Bank lending
program. Limited reform would be reflected in either a diminished stabilization effort or in slow or no
structural reform in key areas such as pricing and subsidies, internal and external trade, privatization, and
private sector development. In this case there would be no adjustment lending and only limited
investment and institution building activities. The World Bank would still maintain a presence in selected
sectors through investment projects which would aim to maintain basic service levels and prevent the
collapse of key infrastructure (e.g., roads, social services) where postponement of rehabilitation would
increase future costs inordinately. If Belarus were to implement only limited reform, the World Bank's
financial support would be in the range of US$200 million over a three year period, including three to
five operations.
D.    Jmplicaons for the World Bank's Exposue
111.         The implications for macroeconomic performance of a gradual structural reform path,
accompanied by a stabilization program that could be supported by the IMF, are illustrated in Section m
above. This scenario is characterized by continuing moderate decline in economic activity until 1995 and
a modest recovery starting in 1996. Sizeable financing requirements would be expected to emerge in the
short term, owing to the rise in imported energy prices during 1993-94. In the medium term, financing
needs would be expected to decline, as a share of GDP and exports, owing to internal adjustment and the
development of a new tradeables sector. In this illustrative scenario, by the year 2000 Belarus would
have accumulated US$6 billion in external debt - including an esfimated US$500 nAillion in debt to
Russia, accumulated in 1992-93 - or about 60% of projected exports. Resulting debt service would
remain at manageable levels, reaching about  1I % of exports by the end of the period. Ihe composition



23
of export receipts - as well as external debt -- between convertible and non-convertible currencies will
however be an important factor in determining overall creditworthiness prospects.
112.            As in 1992-93, Belarus is expected to continue to receive external funds mostly in the
form of export credits and non-concessional bilateral loans. World Bank's financing, consistent with the
lending program outlined above as a partial structural reform scenario, would contribute approximately
one-tenth of overall financing requirements during the same period, and would lead to IBRD exposure
reaching about US$700 million by the year 2000. IBRD exposure indicators, quantified on a very
tentative basis, are presented in Table 3 below.
Table 3:  Creditworthiness Indicators
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-_------------------------
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996          2000
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-----------___----__------
Total DOD/Total Exports GNFS                11.01    31.31    40.3X    48.2X    52.1Z             59.32
IBRD DOD/Total Exports GNFS                  0.0      0.0X     1.92      4.61      5.6X           6.62
IBRD DOD/Total DOD                           0.01     0.0X      4.72      9.61    10.81           11.2X
IBiD Debt Service/Total Debt Service         0.01      0.0X     1.62      2.21      4.6Z           6.32
Total Debt Service/Total Exports GDFS        0.0      1.61     3.6X      5.21      6.41          11.81
IBiD Debt Service/Total Exports GYPS         0.01     0.01      0.12      0.11      0.31           0.72
IBRD Debt Service/non-FSU Exports 0NFS       0.0X 1    0.01     0.22      0.51      1.31           3.0X
113.            In the proposed scenario, the main source of concern for Belarus' creditworthiness would
be the risk that insufficient funding may be available for the large unidentified the balance of payments
needs, especially in the earlier years of the trnsition. In that event, deeper adjustment may be required.
Further large and protracted income losses may, in turn, weaken the support for reform. This concern
is being addressed in the framework of the Consultative Group for Belarus, as well as through active
consultation with bilateral and multilateral agencies.
114.            The adoption of a stronger stabilization program and a more comprehensive structural
reform program would be expected to result in a more rapid decline in economic activity in 1994-95, and
a more rapid recovery in the following years. In such a scenario, creditworthiness indicators may be
worse in the short term and substantially improved in the medium term, compared with the scenario
presented above.
E.   Economi and Sector Work Proranm
115.            The World Baok's economic and sector work program with Belarus supports the country
assistance strategy's focus on planning and implementing the structural reform  program and moving
Belarus to a market-based economy. The economic and sector work program provides important
analytical means for advising the Government on appropriate policy and investment strategies and is key
to the development of World Bank lending operations.
116.            Buildiu-  on the Country Economic Memorandum  and the ongoing sector work on
agriculture, the labor market, the health sector, and the environment, further economic work will
concentrate on a series of cross-sectoral issues. The first study to be undertaken during FY94 will focus
on the reform of public finances. Ihe objective of this work will be to recommend to the Government



24
a public finance and expenditure restructuring strategy which would be consistent with promoting
macroeconomic stability, protecting vulnerable groups and taking steps toward public administration
reform. It would focus on tax reform conducive to private sector development and needed resource
mobilization. During FY95 further work will be initiated on Belarus' trade and export development
policies which will provide recommendations on specific ways to facilitate and diversify exports and
export markets. A fiurther study will be undertaken on the appropriate foreign borrowing and externa
debt management strategy of the Government.
117.         Sector reviews will not only provide specific recommendations on programs of sector
reform but will also provide the needed basis for designing sector and investment lending operations.
Substantial analytical work will be undertaken in the enterprise and financial sectors in preparation for
the sector adjustment operation planned to support privatization and policy reform in these areas. This
work is being initiated during FY94. In addition, studies are about to be initiated on the energy sector
and poverty monitoring and later will be carried out on education, transport, and other infastructure
issues.
F.    Portfolio Mnagement
118.         The World Bank's strategy of portfolio management will be based on the lessons learned
from the implementation experience of other FSU countries and Eastern Europe with the objective of
minimi2ing implementation problems. At the project design stage, strong emphasis will be given to
building up the instiutional capacities to manage and implement projects and the reform programs being
put into place. Under the various projects, training needs for local staff in procurement, disbursement,
and financial management will be given particular attention. As the portfolio develops, implementation
issues will be closely examined with a view to facilitating the design of future operations. All loans will
be supervised intensively by World Bank staff.
G.    Other Bank Group Activities
119.         Belarus is a member of the IFC and MIGA. Several IFC missions have visited Belarus,
and the IFC has initiated assistance to the Govermment and the city of Brest with a pilot project to
privatize small enterprises. The first of the IFC-supported enterprise auctions in Brest was held in early
October 1993, and further auctions are planned for later this year. In addition, the Government and the
IFC have begun discussing possible investments and other support which might be forthecoming. Belarus
has also taken advantage of training seminars offered by EDI. Govemment officials have attended a
number of courses on market economics and project analysis and EDI's orientation seminar on the World
Bank for senior-level officials.
PART E. THE PROPOSED LOAN
L. Background and Rationale for IBRD Involvement
120.         The economy of Belarus is undergoing the transition to a market economy while
experiencing a substantial terms of trade shock and disruptions in supplies notably of energy and raw



25
materials. Belarus continues to experience a decline in demand for its traditional production, as the
economies of its major trading partners in the FSU contract. The proposed loan would support the
beginning of the country's transition to the market. The proceeds from this loan would assist Belarus to
stem the decline in output and develop its foreign exchange market while allowing time for reforms to
be implemented and structural adjustment to begin to take place.
121.         The Government's program of structural reform to be supported by this Rehabilitation
Loan Is outlined in Part !, above, and in the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies. This
program is complement  by a macrecnomic stabilization program which is being supported by the
IMP under the Systemic Transformation Facility (in the amount of SDR 140.2 million).
II. Project Objectives and Desciption
122.         This operation sustains the implementation of economic reforms introduced recently (see
Annex 4) and the program adopted by the Govermnent and outlined in the Memorandum of Economic
Reform Policies (see Annex 3). The Memorandum defines policy actions which will be undertaken over
the coming 18 months. It also defines actions that will serve as the basis for the World Bank's future
lending program and for a detminaton of its magnitude. Further objectives of the proposed loan are
to support development of a market-based foreign exchange allocation system, finance critically needed
imported inputs and provide a framework for financial assistance from other donor agencies.
123.         The proceeds of the loan would help to achieve the project's objectives by financing the
fireign exchange costs of imports in accordance with (i) a foreign exchange component in the amount
of US$42.5 million, (ii) direct imports of critically needed goods in an amount of US$77 million, and
(iii) expert assistance in project implementation in the amount of US$0.5 million.
124.         The proceeds of the loan are expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1995, the closing
date of the loan.
125.         Foreign Exchange Cmpnnt. As a part of the actions supported under the Systemic
Transformation Facility of the IMP, Belarus has introduced a single, unified exchange rate for all official
and commercial foreign exchange transactions. This exchange rate is determined in a newly established
inter-bank auction market, administered by the National Bank of Belarus. The new inter-bank auction
system was inaugurated on July 26, 1993, and auctions are currently held twice a week. Nineteen banks
in Belarus are registered to participate in the auction. To date the volume of transactions has been
limited, but the National Bank expects that transactions will reach US$10-12 million per week within the
near future.
126.         Both the emerging private sector as well as existing state-owned productive enterprises
will benefit from this component of the loan. Currently, public and private commercial enterprises have
equal access to the foreign exchange market through their commercial banks and the inter-bank foreign
exhange auction. As discussed in Part I of this report, the policy program supported by the
Rehabilitation Loan and the Systemic Transformation Facility will reduce the ability of existing public
enterprises to gain preferential access to credit. Measures agreed under the stabilization and strucura
reform programs will widen market-based credit allocation through credit auctions, reduce over time the
availability of preferential credit, and subject stateowned enterprises to greater financial discipline.



26
127.         On this basis, part of the proceeds of thbis loan will be provided through a market-oriented
foreign exchange component. This component would reimburse up to the gross monthly sales of foreign
axchange by the National Bank on the inter-bank auction, based on evidence that imports of eligible goods
have taken place during the period. Non-ligible Imports would comprise only those goods on the World
Bank's standard negative list. As agreed with the Government, the amounts reimbursed through this
component would be paid to the account of the Ministry of Finance, whereupon they would be
immediately sold to the National Bank for local currency at the market exchange rate.
128.         Direct Import Component. The second part of the loan would finance imports for energy,
essential medicines, agriculture and the environment; the aggregative amounts for each category are
shown below. This component would support pre-identified imports of socially required goods, goods
which will not directly affect production decision-making, and goods requiring substantial oversight with
respect to the procurement process. Given the low capacity utilization in the economy at present and the
early stage in the reform process, capital equipment will not be supported under this component. Detailed
lists of the imports have been agreed with the Government, and World Bank staff will review the
specifications of the imports as part of the procurement process. A tentative procurement plan has been
prepared (Annex 5). The overall allocation among sectors and the content of the specific import lists
would be reviewed as required during supervision of the project and may be modified in agreement with
the World Bank based on actual disbursement performance and needs and in accordance with the
objectives of the program. It has been agreed with the Government that any reallocation which might
take place would follow the same selection criteria.
129.        Items proposed for fimancing comprise the following:
a.    Ewn: crude oil and adxiliary inputs (US$35 million). The Government has requested
substantial support in this area as Belarus has virtuatly no domestic sources of petroleum
while at the same time has significant energy needs. Crude oil imports alone are
estinated to be 12 million tons in 1993, equivalent to US$1.5 billion at current world
prices. Crude oil supplies from Russia are moving toward world price levels, and the
support under this loan would help ease this transition. A small amount of auxiliary
inputs (e.g., transformer oils) are also required and would be financed by the loan.
b.    Esential medicn  and medil eipe  (US$20 million). he present health situation
is fagile, at least in part due to drug shortages which are widespread at every level of
health care but which particularly affect the poor, elderly and young populations. The
continuing impact of Chernobyl and recent flooding in the south of the country also
contribute to the problems associated with shortages. This loan would support the import
of essential medicines and raw materials for the production of medicines included in the
World Health Organization's approved list and a small amount of medical equipment.
c.    Agriculbie:  agro-chemicals, veterinary medicines, and spare parts for harvesting
equipment (US$20.5 million). The loan would finance crop protection agents (e.g.,
herbicides, insecticides and pesticides) as these are critical inputs into Belarus agriculture
and are required to stem crop losses and prevent further yield declines. Veterinary
medicines are included given that the large-scale livestock production systems used within
Belarus leave livestock particularly vulnerable to disease; the medicines to be imported
will help prevent fiuther deterioration in the sitation. Spare parts for harvesting
equipment are required given the poor state of existing machinery due to the difficulty
of getting spares in recent years.



27
d.    Environmental monitoring equipment (US$1.5 million). Given the continuing problems
associated with the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster, the Government has requested
support for the import of equipment which will assist the Government's environmental
monitoring effort.
m. Environmental Safety
130.         As an adjustment operation, this project has been assigned to Category U for the purposes
of OD 4.01 on Environment Assessment. The agro-chemicals and industrial chemicals that may be
financed under the loan will be reviewed and will be supported only if found to be acceptable to the
World Bank. The Government has agreed that all such chemicals will be handled, stored, and used in
accordance with local regulations and World Bank requirements. During project implementation,
consultations with appropriate environmental specialists will be sought when agro-chemicals and industrial
chemicals and fuels are procured.
IV. ProjectImplementation
131.         Overall coordination of project activities and general loan administration will be the
responsibility of the Project Implementation Agency (PKA), which will be a separate part of the unit that
is handling implementation arrangements for the Institution Building Loan. This agency has been
established within the Ministry of Finance and, prior to effectiveness of the loan, will be staffed by key
personnel who will work solely on the implementtion of this project. Overall staffing for the PIA will
include a project manager, procurement and disbursement officers, clerical workers, interpreters, and
procurement technical assistance personnel. The PIA will be responsible for working direcdy with the
importing agencies, operating the special account, processing all applications for disbursement of World
Bank funds, maintaining project accounts and arranging for their tinely audit, monitoring overall loan
implementation, preparing monthly progress reports, and preparing the Project Completion Report.
132.         While the PTA will have overall responsibility for ensuring that proper procurement,
disbursement and accounting procedures are followed, specification of the imports and actual importation
of the goods to be financed will be undertaken by the agreed importing agencies." For these purposes,
importing agencies will appoint a procurement liaison officer who will be responsible for working with
the PIA.
133.         The World Bank has conducted a procurement training workshop in Belarus, and
procurement training for PIA staff will also take place under the recently approved Institution Building
Loan. However, as Government officials have had relatively little experience and need time to develop
expertise in project implementation (mcluding competitive procurement and disbursement procedures),
an internationally-recruited procurement expert or firm will be hired by the Government using
Rehabilitation Loan finds. In particular, the project implementation expert assistance will be responsible
for assisting the PIA to detail the procurement plan; set up a project accounting system for loan
management; prepare bidding documents based on the standard bidding document; prepare notification
11    Crude oil and auxiliary inputs (Novopolotsk Refinery); essential medicines (Pharmatsiya);
agricultural imports (Belagrointorg); and environmental monitoring equipment (Goskomekologia).



28
of bidding opportunities; prepare and issue specific bidding docments; conduct bid opening; evaluate
bids, prepare evaluation reports and recommend contract awards; establish procedures for obtaining
special commitments and for disbursement; request reviews, approval and payments by the Bank;d evelop
monitring procedures for managing future procurement of goods and disbursement of funds; and conduct
on-the-job training to assure the transfer of technology and knowledge regarding procurement and
disbursement. Terns of reference for this assistance have been agreed with the Government (Annex 6).
V. Preen and Disbution
134.        Foreign Exchange Component. Under the foreign exchange component, procurement for
all contracts under US$300,000 will be done directy by the importers using established commercial
practices. Contracts for US$300,000 or greater will be subject to the procedures applicable to the direct
import component, and simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) processes and prior review
requirements would be followed. Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized internaional commodities markets or other channels of
competitive procurement.
135.        Direct Imoort Component. To the extent possible, imports to be financed under the direct
inport component of the loan will be packaged into a limited number of contracts to simplify procurement
and disbursement arrangements. All goods and services to be financed under this component will be
procured in accordance with the World Bank's procurement guidelines. Import packages with a value
greater than US$300,000 will be purchased through simplified ICB. For purchases valued at US$300,000
or less, international shopping procedures will be required, under which quotes will be obtained from at
least three suppliers from three different countries. Whenever possible, spare parts will be specified in
a manner which would allow competitive bidding. In some instances proprietary spare parts may be
imported through direct purchase amngements. The minimum import package value under this
component shall be US$50,000. Consultants financed from the proceeds of the loan would be selected
in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency, 1981."
136.        The PIA will use the World Bank's standard bidding document for all bidding packages.
All bidding packages using simplified ICB and direct purchase will be subject to prior review by the
World Bank.
137.        Imports financed under this component of the loan will be distributed to the fwz users
through existing distribution channels. The designated agencies for the purpose of procment will
receive the imported goods and will be responsible for distribution to the final users, including the private
sector. To ensure that the enterprises in both the public and private sectors are aware of the existence
of this program and that imported goods are available to both sectors, the Governmeat intends to
advertise the availability of the goods in local newspapers. It is the Government's policy tl) make inputs
available to all final users at their full cost, that is, the local currency equivalent of the cost of imported
goods calculated at the market exchange rate, plus a margin for the distribution agencies. Upon delivery
to final users, the importing agency will deposit the local currency equivalent of the import cost of the
items sold into a designated account of the Ministry of Finance. The PIA will maintain a record of the
payments made by the importing agencies to the Ministry of Finance for this purpose.



29
VI.
138.         With epect to the frrign     ggmw i iports e_igible for reimbue          will
be subject to the World Baks stadad nativ list. Goods import  afker September 1, 1993, are
eligible for retroactive financing under the loan up to a maximm of US$10 million, equivalent to 8%
of the loan amount, in view of the policy reform actions undertaken to date and given the substantial
balance of payments needs of the economy. The retroactive ficing wiI be provided on the basis of
(i) saems of expenditure, prepared by the PIA in accordance with the Banrs simplified
documenton requirement for adjustment op ons I.e., based on cuom  eadficates) for contra
valued at less than US$300,000, or full d - ocumntion (i.e., contract, supplier's invoice, evidee of
shipment, customs certificate, and evidence of payme)  for conutrats of US$300,000 and above,
respectively; and (ii) a statement by the Govement that the imports presented for World Bank financing
have not been financed by anor loan or gra, or imporotd thtough barte  rangement.
139.         Ihereafr, for the remainder of he funds disbufsed through this component,
disbursemen  would be made to the borrower upon receipt of (i) and (*i) above, as required for the
retoactive fiacing, and (ii) a sttment from the National Bank of montdly sales and puraes of
foreign exchange by the National Bank through the inter-bank auction. The gross amount of foreign
exchange sales by the National Bank on the internk auction will detmine the Omonthly eligible
amount." This represents the maximum amount of eligible imports that the World Bank would reimburse
each month. Any positive difference between the monthly eligible amount' of a given monti and the
amount of eligible imports of that moh for which eim et has been reested from the World
Bank can be carried forward. The customs certificas covered by the   _     of expaedit  will be
retined by the PIA for review by World Bank supervsion missions and by the auditors.
140.         Under the dkmpjor and tdmhnica assitance omonnts the proceeds of the loan will
finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of import from eligible counties and 100 prcent of
the costs (including travel and subsistence expeues) of consultant srvices for project implementation
assistance. To fcilitate dibursement for te consutats and for smaller conas, the Gov n   will
establish a special account in the amount of US$1.0 million in a bank acceptable to the World Bank. All
withdrawal applications will be supported by fll do on.
VII. Rqert, Accountng, and Auditg
141.         The PIA will maintain all project accounts, which will be audited annually by independet
auditors acceptable to the World Bank in accordan  with the World Bank's guidelines on auditing and
financing reportig. Audit reports will be submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year, or the date of final disbursement Separate audit reports will be prepared
for the special account and wfll be submied to the Wodd Bank on the same schedule. The PIA will also
prepare monthly progress reports detailing the status of all pcement transactions, commiments, and
disbursement requests.



30
Vm.  eRd
142.         At negotiations, understandings acceptable to the World Bank were reached on: (i) the
tched Memorandum of Econoimic Reform Policies, outlining the Government's reform program and
its timing; (ii) terms of reference for the procurement technical assistance to be financed under the
projact; (iii) the list of goods to be financed under the proposed loan; (iv) details of the PIA's functions
ad s ,t ; and (v) accounting and auditing arrangements.
143.        Agreement with the Government was also reached on the following conditions for
effectiveness of the proposed loan: (i) key PIA staff in charge of the proposed loan will have been
appointed, and (iH) the offer for sale of public enterprises, including municipally-owned, other than real
estate, retail stores and service outlets, will have taken place through public auctions or tenders, in
numbers and under conditions acceptable to the Bank.
IX. Program Beneits and Risks
144.         The proposed loan would support the Government's economic reform program and
contribute to stemming the decline in output by promoting market-oriented policy reform and supplying
imports for a wide range of sectors. It would also assist the development of the foreign exclange market.
The loan would improve the balance of payments directly and by catalyzing import support from other
donors.
145.         The main risk of the proposed loan regards the possibility of policy slippage, caused by
opposition to economic reform that may develop as a result of a decline in employment and living
standards. lTe establishment of a more target-effective social safety net should reduce this risk. Another
significant risk is posed by the availability of balance of payments support from other donors. Without
substaUtial support of the itenatonal communty, the reform effort in Belarus cod falter, thus
heightening the income decline and prolonging the adjustment period. This issue is being addressed
through the Consultative Group process and other donor coordination efforts. Another significant rik
is posed by the limited capacity to manage the reform process. The Istitution Buldding Loan, approved
in July 1993, is designed to strengthen economic management and is expected to mitigate this risk.
PART Im. RECO1MENDATION
146.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
World Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
October 25, 1993
Atachmens



ANNEX I
hag 1 of 3
IIEPUBUC OF BELARUS -REHABILITATION LOAN
Key Mareoomic Idcators
Table A.1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
191    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996         2000
Real Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)                     -10.0l   -15.01   -7.02    0.0     1.52       5.0S
Gross Domestic Income (GODY)                     -35.21  -27.0X   -7.3X   -0.5    5.21         6.12
Real per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                     -10.51  -15.4X   -7.51   -0.51    1.01         4.51
Total Consumption                                -39.31  -10.91   -8.02    1.02    2.22         5.21
Private Consumption                              -49.91   -3.61   -2.9X    1.4X    0.72         5.41
Debt and Debt Servies (LT+IWF+ST):
Total DOD (US$ m)                                  401    1128    2036    2888    3718         8312
DOD/GDP                                            6.6X   12.51   13.81   17.86   19.7Z        22.31
Debt Service (US$ m)                                 0      58     183      314     460        1230
Debt Service/Exports                               0.01    1.61    3.61    5.2Z    6.4Z        11.61
Debt Service/GDP                                   0.01    0.61    1.21    1.91    2.41         4.3Z
Interest Burden (LT+IHF+ST):
Interest Paid (US$ m)                                0      20      64     119      183         400
Interest/Exports                                   O.O    0.61    1.3X    2.01    2.61         3.61
Interest/GDP                                       O.O    0.2X    0.41    0.71    1.01         1.41
Gross Investment/GDP                        32.31   33.71   27.0X   23.01   21.01   21.91        23.21
Domestic Savings/GDP                        36.51   34.91   18.71   18.01   16.41   18.61        21.51
BoP Resource Balance/GOP                     4.21    1.21   -8.31   -5.01   -4.S6   -3.31        -1.71
National Savings/GOP                        36.51   36.0    19.31   17.91   16.11   18.01       20.32
BoP Current Account Balance/GDP              4.21    2.3Z   -7.71   -5.11   -4.91   -3.9X        -2.91
Government Investment/GDP g/                 3.51    2.21    2.01    2.01    2.01    2.01         2.o0
Governrment Savings/GDP p/                   7.41   -0.22   -8.21  -10.81   -6.51   -4.52        -1.51
Private Investment/GDP  /                   28.81   31.51   25.01   21.01   19.0X   19.91        21.21
Private Savings/GDP JI                      34.51   30.92   26.41   26.81   21.61   21.81        21.3X
Government Revenues/GDP /                   47.31   42.3X   36.8X   36.02   36.81   36.31        35.51
Goverrnmt Expenditures/GOP 3/               43.42   44.72   46.91   46.81   45.31   42.91        39.0X
Public Sector Deficit (-) or Surplus/GDP _/ 4.21   -2.41   -9.21  -11.82   -8.01   -6.01         -3.51
Primary Deficit (-) or Surplus/GDP           4.41   -1.71   -8.91  -1O.1S   -5.11   -3.0X        -1.41
GDP Deflator (X growth rate'                81.81 1450.01 1000.01  100.O2   30.01   15.01         5.O0
Real Exchange Rate (1992-100)                      100.01   58.51   33.91   31.81   28.42        25.42
Terms of Trade Index (1992-100)            151.82  1000.X   76.81   76.91   78.21   63.61        90.5X
Exports (GSF8) Volume Growth Rate                  -28,61  -13.11   -5.31    9.61    7.01         7.4X
Exports (GIFS)/GDP                          44.7X   59.62   40.12   34.21   37.01   37.81        37.62
Imports (GNF8) Volume Growth Rate                  -49.21  -17.81   -9.91    9.12   10.71         8.31
Lmports (GNFS)/GDP                          40.51   58.41   48.4Z   39.32   41.61   41.11        39.3X
BoP Current Account Balance (U8$ m)         1703     138   -689    -758   -801    -742           -825
Gross Reserves (US$ m)                         0       5     III     308      429     637        1140
Gross Reserves (months of imports)             0       0     0.3     0.6      0.8     1.0         1.2
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------
M/ Including republican and local governments.
k/ Including state-owned enterprises.
g/ Including social funds.



ANNEX 1
Table A.Z: Balance of Pymsnta (US$ aillUea)
----_---_---_--_-_---._--_-------------------__-_-_-----__.-_--__._------_-_____----_----_---_------
1961    1092   190M    1994    1995    1996        2000
A. Total Ruport of GMYS                   16330   3641   3010    5051    5987    7140        10644
E port to FSU A/                      16S0    2544   2436   3769   4555   5541            8029
Ruport to RGW kf                       1661    109t    1173    1282   1432   1598         2615
B. Total Iaport of GOUS                   16627   3569   4357   5795    6726    7759         11116
Import from  8SU A/                   14670   2762   3311   44813      245   6016         8273
Import from RoW k/                     19S7    807   1046    1312    1481   1743          2844
C. Resource BalAnee                        1703     72   -747    -744    -739   -619          -474
with FSU A/                           1999   -218   -875   -714    -689    -475          -245
with ROW k/                           -296    290      128    -30     -50    -145        -229
D. Not Factor Income                          0      -6    -22    -64    -112   -172          -401
@/w rnterest Payment.                    0      6      22      68      122    187         405
Z. Net Current Trasfers                       0      72     60      50      50      50          50
F. Current Account Ublsae.                 1703    138   -669    -756    -001   -742          -825
0. Lorg-Term Capital Inflows                  0    614    699    858       922    950          994
1. Forign Direot Investment                0       7      10      36      65    120          350
2. net Long-Term Borrowing                  0     732    539    822    857    830            644
a/v Unidentified                        0      0      142    528     509    584          617
@/w Credit from Russia                        572     165      0       0       0         -53
3. Other Long-Team Inflows                  0   -125    150        0       0       0           0
B. Total Other Item.                      -1703   -747        0       0      0       0           0
*. Change in Not Reserves                    0      -5    -10   -100    -121   -208           -169
1. Net Credit from   F                     0       0      s6      96       0       0         -32
2. Reserves Changes n.e.i.                  0      -S   -106   -196    -121   -208          -137
----------------_-----_--------------------------------------------__-------___---------------------
AV Wormer Soviet Union
5/ Rest of the WorLd



ANNEX I
Table A.3: Pinaning Requirements and 8Ourees (IU$ millIon)
1983         1094       1893-94
Finaneing ReqUiremOnts
1  Cusrent aecount d*ficit                         688           758          1448
2. Eternal Debt Amortization                        38           118           156
3. Chug. in net reserves                            10           100           110
4.  Gross finanoing requirements                   737           977          1713
5.  Fipeline loan diabursmments                    434           413           847
6.  Private capital flow                            10            36            46
7.  Other liabilities and adjustments              150             0           150
8.  Fiuanulng requirements                         142           528           670
Sources of financins
S. Debt recchoeulla8 and deferral
Bilateral                                      0             0             0
Private                                        0             0             0
10. Additional financing required                  142           528           670
11. Total, sources of fintaclug                    142           528           670



ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REABILITATION LOAN
Timetabk of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:            12 months
2.    Project prepared by:              Government of Belarus, with assistance of IBRD staff
and consultants
3.    Identification mission:           November 15-29, 1992
4.    Pre-appraisal mission:            July 20 - August 7, 1993
5.    Apprais mission:                  Not applicable
6.    Negotiations:                     October 1, 1993
7.    Planned Board presentation:       November 16, 1993
8.    Planned effectiveness:            December 1993
9.    Expected program completion:      June 30, 1995
10.   Appraisa Report:                  Not applicable
I     Bank missions visited Belaru  in November 1992 and in July-August 1993, to assist the
Government in the preparation of the loan. The pre-appraisal mission included two teams: the first one
to address policy issues, and the second to deal with the implemention aspects of the loan. The former
team was led by D. Gressani (task manager) and included: C. Pant, S. Pargal (EC4C2); M. Michaely
(EC4DR); D. Phillips (EC4PE); M. Riboud (EC4HR); K. Lis, A. Cordet (Consultants). The second
team was led by C. Hall (EC4C2) and included: P. Folb, D. Elz, D. Shapiro, E. Beshers, and C.
Chamorro (Consultants). W. Grais is the managing Division Chief and B. Kavalsky the Department
Director for the operation.



~~*               *    *r 
CABET MIHICTPAY                                COBET MHHHCTPOB
P8CIXYBJIKXI lEJIAPYCbC    PECYBJIHKHM SEJIAPYCb
20W@, r. Maie, JAo YPam.                       016, r. AMI    Aom ilp"a"ulcvas
Mr. Lewis PRESTON
President, Inentonalm Bank for
Recoaattucto and Development
181   Stret, N.W. .
Was11hgtofi, D.C. 20433
October 25. 1993
Dowr Mr. Preomso,
T1 GoVernme  of th cePubi of Bdars has agred the Memordm on Economic
Re-orm POlCdI  with d. World Dank  Mm anadhed M              ou           p   m of
macroeconomicstaIzation ad sysemic ethms of th Rapble of delatus. We requ  the
Wodd Bank to suppo  ft  progra. wit a Riabilit     L n I th amount of S120 million
it Is our hnetond  to lUpentthe program  ies ried in h attwachd Meoadmin
order to ach        aapld  _    of econonc growth  tbuL a
fam.wbrk Givi the comp).Iy  ohe traso to a                            iabd eoo, t s    el
ta       will Wmie sometles edg the                         of this pro      Sou.
a4jstnUs and conweiv sacfn ar llky to be raheuie. We will. closely monito the progrm
of our reftr  progam ad w6wiLMez  ppropit, rvisw ncay  at_tomt WIt th
World Bank.
Sincrey yours,
Mlail Muaivich
irst Deput Chalan of th
Council of Miisters
eubc of Belarus



ANNEX 3
REPUBL1C OF BELARUS
MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
I.    Inlroductton
1.    Belarus has undertaken significant economic reforms to transform its economy from a centrally
planned system to a market economy. The first step was the adoption of the Program for Transition to
Market Economy by the Supreme Soviet in October 1990. Since then, the Government of Belarus has
made progress in the implementation of this program, with the introduction of the basic legislation, the
development of a market infrastructure, and the liberalization of prices and economic activity.
2.    In spite of the progress made on these fronts, Belarus has encountered considerable difficulties
in reforming its economy. The transition to a market economy is taking place at the same time that
adjustment is necessary for the severe tems of trade shock and the disruption in traditional trade flows.
In addition, public institutions have limited experience for managing the reform process effectively.
3.    The Government of Belarus is determined to continue moving toward a full-fledged market
economy. To this end, it has developed, in cooperation with the international financial institutions, a
program ftor stabilization and strucural reforms to lead the next stage of the transition. The Government
is seeking assistance from the international community, including the World Bank, in support of this
program.
4.    The program focuses on monetary and fiscal policies, to achieve a reduction of inflation and
external imbalances, and on structural reforms to support an economic recovery based on a more efficient
allocation of resources, by increasing competition, encouraging private sector development, and reducing
the scope and the size of the public sector in the economy. This Memorandum outlines the main
measures that the Government intends to take, over the next 12 to 18 months, to fmrther liberaize
domestic prices and international trade, to promote competition through entry and demonopolization, to
improve corporate governance, to accelerate the privatization of state enterprises and housing, and to
begin the privatization of land. This Memorandum outlines also the measures that the Government
intends to take to protect the most vulnerable groups and to facilitate the reallocation of labor during the
transition.
5.    Ihis Memorandum does not address important sectoral policy issues. The Government recognizes
that financial sector reform, and restructuring of the industrial sector and agriculture are also critical
components of the transformation of the economy. Measures to address these issues are under
preparation, and the Government intends to condnue to work in close cooperation with the international
financial institutons, including the World Bank, to develop comprehensive reform programs for these
sectors.
I.    Macroeconomic Stabflization
6.    The Government is committed to restoring macoeconomic stability, and in the first place aims
at reducing the rate of inflation and containing the current account deficit at a level consistent with the
amount of foreign financing that the Govemment is aiming at, without reliance on a rationing of imports.
To this end, a stabilization program including monetary and fiscal measures was formulated in



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
consultation with the International Monetary Fund, and received support under the Systemic
Transformation Facility, approved by the IMF Board on July 28, 1993.
7.    The program relies on control of credit expansion and on achievement of a more realistic irnterest
rate as main instruments of monetary policy. The amount of refinance provided by the National Bank
of Belarus (NBB) on subsidized terms will be reduced, and an increasing share of NBB credit will be
allocated through auctions. The "directed" component of NBB credit to banks will be reduced, from 90%
in the first half of 1993 to 30% by the end of the year. The NBB is also committed to maintaining its
general refinance rate in line with the Central Bank of Russia.
8.    In order to maintain the government deficit, including the balances of the social funds, at a level
consistent with the monetary targets and sustainable external debt accumulation, the program aims at
limiting government expenditures by cutting consumer and producer subsidies, by containing the growth
of nominal public sector wages to no more than 70% of retail price inflation, and by maintaining the
outlays of the social funds within the existing revenue base.
9.    The Government has taken several important steps toward these objectives. Since September,
the official exchange rate announced by the NBB for the US dollar reflects developments in the "hard"
currency auctions. The rediscount rate of the NBB was increased in steps, from 100% in June to 180%
in October. The NBB has announced that under the new monetary policy guidelines there will be no
generalized settement of inter-enterprise arrears, nor generalized indexation of working capital through
credit creation.
10.   Difficult measures have also been introduced to linit government expenditures. All subsidies to
food processing have been eliminated, with the exception of subsidies on bread. Prices of most foodstuffs
have been liberalized, and the administered prices of remaining regulated foodstuffs (bread, milk, and
milk products) have been increased. The price of milk and milk products was increased to eliminate
subsidies on these products, and the level of subsidies on bread has been fixed in nominal terms. In
addition, all agricultural producer subsidies (for meat, milk, and grains) have been fixed in nominal terms
at their level of early 1993, thus ensuring a reduction in real terms in the level of subsidization for the
rest of the year. Consumer subsidies on rents, electricity, and other communal services have been
reduced.
m.   Polcis to Promote       in
11.   The Government intends to promote competition, in order to facilitate an economic recovery
based on a more efficient allocation of resources. To this end, the Government intends to eliminate
remaining price restrictions, except for a limited group of necessities, energy products, and public
utilities; to establish a transparent and neutral trade regime, in order to encourage the development of the
tradeable sector and maximize the benefits from the country's resources; to break up monopolies and
large vertically integrated enterprises; and to develop the legal and institutional framework for anti-tust
policy, in order to facilitate entry and operation of new private businesses.
A.    Pricing. Subsidies and Distribution Policies
12.   Ihe Government has already liberalized the majority of prices, with the exception of basic
foodstuffs (bread, milk, and milk products), communal services (public housing rents; electricity, water,



ANNEX 3
PaEe3 of 10
sewage, heat, hot water, radio, telephone, television, gas); public transportation; and energy products
(electricity and fuels). Only 8% of the value of the basket of the retail price index remains administered.
13.   The Government has recently taken difficult measures to reduce subsidies on foodstuffs, as
discussed in above. At this time, bread is the only foodstuff whose price remains subsidized. Subsidies
on communal services have also been reduced. Public housing rents were increased 10 timnes, starting
October 1, and other communal services were raised between 2 and 5.5 times. As a result, cost recovery
on public housing rents and other communal services was increased from about 6% in the first half of
1993 to 20%, as of October 1. Since August, the Government has reduced cross-subsidies on electricity,
bringing the tariffs charged to households, Government agencies, and agricultural users closer to those
charged to industrial users. Since August, electricity tariffs were raised about 3.5 times for households,
5 times for Government agencies, and 150 times for agricultural users. As of October 1, electricity
tariffs recover about 40% of cost from agricultural users and households, and 100% from Government
agencies. Tariffs paid by other users have been adjusted so that, in aggregate, electricity costs are fully
recovered. Similarly, the Government has decreased the cross-subsidies on diesel fuel, fuel oil and
gasoline. Since August, the prices of fuels for priority uses (diesel and fuel oil rations for agriculture
and gasoline rations for households) were brought closer to the prices of fuels charged to other users.
14.   Subsidies. The Gov'rnment intends to further reduce subsidies. Rents for public housing and
tariffs of communal services will be further increased to bring cost recovery to 30% by end-1993. To
reduce cross-subsidies on electricity use, the Government will increase electricity tariffs by end-1993 to
recover at least 50% of costs for households and 60% for agricultural users. By mid-1994, cross-
subsidies on electricity will be eliminated for all users except households, whose electricity tariffs will
recover at least 70% of cost. Electricity tariffs charged to industrial users will continue to be adjusted
to a level sufficient to maintain in aggregate no subsidies on electricity consumption. The Government
is also committed to eliminating cross-subsidies on fuels by end-1993.
15.   Price Restictions on Producers. Producer prices were liberalized in 1991, and the remaining
price restrictions are limited to "monopolistic" enterprises, (i.e., enterprises with a share of the domestic
market in excess of 40% for intermediate industrial goods, and in excess of 30% for all other products).
These enterprises are currently subject to ceilings on their profit margins, and are required to notify the
Government in advance of price increases. As the process of demonopolization of the economy
progresses, the Government intends to eliminate gradually all price restrictions on producers, with the
exception of natural monopolies and public utilities. The Government is committed to reducing the
number of enterprises subject to these "monopoly" profit margin controls by 50% by end-1993, and to
further reducing the list of "monopoly' enterprises, with the objective of including only natural
monopolies (i.e., enterprises with high economies of scale and without import competition) and public
utilities by end-1994.
16.   Price Restrictions on Traders.  The Government intends to eliminate gradually all price
restrictions on traders, as the process of the break-up and privatization of public trading enterprises
progresses and as new private enterprises enter the distribution system. In August, ceilings on gross
distribution margins for retail and wholesale traders were eliminated (except for basic foodstuffs and
children's products), and ceilings on profit margins were introduced in their place. While this is an
improvement over the previous system, as it removed the bias against commodities with high storage and
transportation costs (such as perishable foodstuffs), the current system imposes restrictions on non-
monopolistic traders. The Government is committed to eliminating all price and profit restrictions on
non-monopolistic traders, and with this aim it has issued a decree eliminating ceilings on distribution and



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
profit margins on all retailers as of Jamnary 1994. By mid-1994, the Government will eliminate the
ceilings on wholesalers, with the exemption of those retaining a dominant market position.
17.   Domestic Distribution. The development of domestic markets will require a competitive and
efficient distribution system. To facilitate entry in wholesale and retail trade, the Governent will
develop and implement an action plan, including the simplification of registration and licensing, and the
sale and lease of commercial space and transport by mid-1994. In addition, the Government intends to
demonopolize and privatize on an accelerated basis wholesale and retail businesses (see also para. 27
below).
18.   Locl Price Restrictions. Local authorities set administered prices for local utilities, local
passenger transport, and solid fuels (coal, wood, peat) for household use, and determine the ceiling
imposed on the profits of local services. Local authorities will eliminate all profit restrictions in line with
the central Government, and will phase out subsidies and cross-subsidies on tariffs of local utilities, local
passenger transport, and solid fuels for household use, on the same schedule as those for subsidies on
communal services.
19.   State Orders. In order to reduce the direct role of the Government in the allocation of resources,
to promote the development of domestic markets, and to reduce effective restrictions on exports, state
orders for industrial products were reduced in 1993 to 17% of corresponding domestic output, from 30%
in 1992. The Goverment intends to fully eliminate by end-1993 state orders that are not related to
bilateral trade agreements or to the Government's procurement for own needs. In addition, the
Government will submit legislation on public procurement to the Supreme Soviet, for consideration in
the 1994 spring session. The proposed legislation will introduce standard contracts, with the objective
of establishing a competitive and transparent public procurement system. The proposed legislation will
replace the current negotiated pricing practices with competitive practices, including public notification
of procurement plans, invitations to bid, evaluation of at least two bids, etc., and will be applied to
domestic as well as international public procurement.
B.     nternational Trade
20.   Belarus is an economy with a limited domestic market and lacks raw materials and energy
sources. Consequently, the Government intends to facilitate the development of a competitive tradeable
sector by establishing a transparent and neutral trade regime. As an initial step, the Govermnent intends
to eliminate administrative restrictions on exports, limit export taxes to those goods whose prices remain
controlled, maintain administrative restrictions on imports only for health and safety reasons, and limit
import taxes to a simple, broad-based import tax schedule. Measures undertaken in other areas - most
important, the phasing out of state orders discussed above - will also play an important role in
facilitating trade.
21.   Administrative Restrictions and Taxes on Exports.  The Government is committed to
eliminating all quantitve export quotas and licenses by end-1993, and to removing export taxes on all
goods with free domestic prices by the sime date. Export taxes on goods whose price remains controlled
- e.g., energy - will be temporarily maintained to ensure adequate supplies for the domestic market.
The Government will also eliminate the 10% foreign exchange tax on export proceeds in hard (non-FSU)
currency by end-1993. The taxation of exporters implicit in the 20% surrender requirement at below-
market exchange rate will also be eliminated by end-1993, both for hard currency and Russian rubles.



ANNEX 3
Ems"lI
22.   A_dnhnstratlve Resrictions and Taxes on Imports. Presentdy there are no quantitative
restrictions on imports, except for a few goods whose imports are banned (e.g. radioactive and toxic
waste) or licensed (e.g., chemicals for phamtical and veterinary industries) for health and safety
reasons. The Government will not impose quantitative restrictions on other imports. As of October
1993, the Government has simplified and rationalized import taxes, with the introduction of a new import
tax schedule, which consists of four rates, including a zero rate and a maximum rate of 20%. Exceptions
exist, in the form of higher import tax rates, for avery short list of goods, which includes the following:
luxury goods; goods subject to high excise taxes when produced domestically; passenger automobiles
older than 7 years; and watches. These exceptions are temporary and will be eliminated when a new
Customs Code will be submitted in 1994 for approval to the Supreme Soviet. At that time, the
Government will also submit for approval the proposal to eliminate all non-tariff import dues, cuntdy
levied at the rate of 0.15%. The import tax is uniform with regard to form of trade and geographical
origin, but it is not applied yet to imports from FSU countries, with which Belarus has no customs. The
tax is applied to the declared value of imports, evaluated at the market exchange rate. The tax schedule
may be superseded in the event of customs unions or free trade agreements.
23. Import Subsidies. Currently the Governiment subsidizes critical imports of grains and
phamaceuticals with part of the proceeds of the foreign exchange tax of 10% and the 20% surrender
requiemen  imposed on exporters. As this tax will be eliminatd at end-1993, the Goverment itends
to phase out existing import subsidies, with the exception of subsidies on pharmaceical products, and
will refrain from subsidizing imports.
24.   Government P       ment of Imports. In the context of the establishmt at of a transparent and
competitive public procurement system, competitive practices will be introduced for all new procurement
contracts of imported goods for Government needs.
C.    Ati-MonQpy Policy
25. The economy is characterized by a high degree of concentration, in both production and
distribution, which resulted from the previous centrally planned system. The Govemment rcgnzes the
need to break up existing monopolies and large vertically integrated enteprises in trade and distribution
and in highly concentrated production branches, in order to promote competition, facilitate entry by new
businesses, and encourage restrucuring and privafization of existing enterprises.
26. To this end, the State Anti-Monopoly Committee was established in 1991, and in 1992-93
enabling legislation and administrative regulations were approved. Ihe State Anti-Monopoly Committee
currendy regulates "monopolistic" eneprises by imposing ceilings on their profit margins (see para 15
above). The State Anti-Monopoly Committee has also begun the implementon of a pilot program for
demonopolization of a major trading conglomerate, which includes processing, transport, and distribution
activities. In this pilot program, the demonopolization plan for the conglomerate has been approved, and
all business units of the conglomerate have been funcionally separated. This pilot program will be
completed by mid-1994, with the separation of the business units into independent legal entities, the
corporatization of all business units with 100 or more workers into open joint-stock companies, and their
offer for sale.
27.   On the basis of this experience, the State And-Monopoly Committee will prepare a
demonopolization program for other major trade and distribution conglomertes, and will begin its
implementation by mid-1994. A program for the demonopolization of other highly concentated
production branches, including a timetable for implementation, will also be prepared by mid-1994.



ANNEX 3
Eag 6 of 10
IV.   Polid  for Private SectorD o
28.   The institutional framework for private sector activities has been considerably developed,
including legislation on property, enterprises, bankruptcy, and foreign investment. In 1992 new labor
regulations were adopted, and, in 1993, the Company Law was enacted. The private sector is, however,
still in its infancy. The Government intends to strengthen the institutional and legal framework, and in
parcar the Company Law, to allow for alternative forms of business association, and to enhance
requirements for accounting, auditing and reporting. The Government is also committed to identifying
and removing the remaining obstacles to the establishment and operation of private businesses. To this
end, a unit has been created in the State Anti-Monopoly Committee with the mandate to work closely with
the private sector to promote private sector development and to identify and remove the remaining
obstacles.
29.   Labor Market Policy. The Government intends to enhance the efficiency of the labor market
through the establishment of a legal framework that would provide increased flexibility in hiring and
firing practices and contau  arrangements, eliinate impediment to labor mobility, and develop
incenives for labor productivity. To this end, a comprehensive labor code is being drafted, which would
increase flexibility in the labor market by: (i) extending the duration of the probation period to at least
six months for all categories of workers, (ii) eliminating restrictions on the use of fixed-term contracts,
(iii) elimmating special guarantees against layoffi for youths and women with children, and (iv)
eliminating the resident permit requirements (propiska) for the acceptance of labor contracts. Ihe
Government is also committed to imposing no controls on wage determination in the private sector, with
the exception of the minimum wage. For the latter, the Govermment intends to maina less than ful
indexation to retail price inflation, to decrease the incidence of unemployment at low skill levels. The
Govermment will submit the labor code to the Supreme Soviet for approval in the 1994 spring session.
30.  LUcensing and Registrtion. The administrative procedures for the registration and licensing of
new businesses were streamlined in June 1993. The Government intends to further review these
procedures to facilitate entry, eliminate arbitrariness, and shorten the processing period. On the basis
of the review, remedial actions will be taken, including the introduction of automatic registration of new
businesses, the reduction of the list of the activities subject to licening, and the reduction of registration
fees.
31.   Condcal Ral Edate. Limited availability of commercial real estate remains an important
constraint to private sector development. In order to ameliorate this problem, the State Committee for
the Management of State Property (GKI) has prepared, with the State Committee for Statistics, an
inventory of unfinished construction which are owned by public entprises and Government agencies,
and are substantially behind completion schedule. Privatization of the identified real estate on a priority
basis began in July 1993. In addition, the Government is committed to removing existing disincentives
and administrative regulations (e.g., tax on receipts from leases and ceilings on leases) that discourage
the lease of commercial real estate.
V.    Policies for the A_Obiitv of State EntErs
32.   The Government recognizes that the process of privatization of state enterprises will require time,
and that some activities will remain under state ownership in the medium term. For these reasons,
mposing a hard budget constraint on sta-owned enterprises and improving their autonomy and



ANNEX 3
Pm 7of 10
accountability are crucial to stabilization and to economic tesructuring. These policies are also important
for private sector development and privatization, to prevent unfair competition by state enteprises facing
softer constraints, and to reveal profitability to prospective investors.
33.   Fina l Disipline. Under the new monetary policy guidelines, as was discussed above,
measures are being taken to promote the allocation of credit to the most productive uses and to reduce
credit subsidies. As a result of these measures, state enterprises will be forced to become more self-
reliant in mobilizing financial resources on competitive terms. In addition, tax exemptions granted on
an ad hoc basis will be phased out by end-1993, and legislated tax exemptions will be rationalized and
reduced. By mid-1994 the Ministry of Finance will establish a system for alloaing and monitoring
transfers (including subsidies, current and capital transfers, tax breaks, and credit subsidies) from the
Goverment to state enterprims, in order to ensure that Government transfers to activities or enterprises
are transparent and consistent with restructuring and downsizing.
34.   Corporate Gove ce. The Government intends to accelerate the transformation of large sae
enterprises into open joint-stock companies and to strengthen their corporate governance systems to
increase accountability and autonomy. To this end, the OKI has approved a standard charter and
accompanying regulations for the corporatization of state enterprises, which specifies the procedures for
the appointment of the board of directors and the manager and their respective responsibilities. On the
basis of this charter, the board of directors is invested with the responsibility to maximize profits, and
with the authority to hire and fire the manager and to dispose of productive and other assets of the
enterprise, without approval by the GKI up to a given limit. On the basis of the approved standard
charter, by mid-1994 the GKI will transform the 10 largest stat-owned corporations and 10 additional
volunteers into open joint-stock companies, and will appoint board members, including non-government
professionals. A list of potential board members, from which appointments can be made and including
qualified non-government professionals, is being prepared by the GXI. A unit will be established by mid-
1994, either in the Ministry of Finance or the GKI, to set performance targets and monitor financial
performance of corporatized state enterprises. To strengthen the monitoring of the performance of state
enterprises, current statistical repordng requirements will be reviewed with a view to simplifying them
and developing management information tools - such as cash flow, cost accounting by products, etc. -
within the context of current accounting practices. To facilitate the process of demonopolization, the
Government will refrain from corporatizing associations, amalgamations, or conglomerates.
VI.       p        Reform
35.   Belarus has already implemented significant reforms in the institutional framework for ownership.
While additional legislation and administrative regulations will be necessary to complete the legal and
institutional framework - in particular, for privatization of enterprises by vouchers, for privaization of
rural and urban land, and for mortgage and collateral - privatization of housing, enterprises} and land
is well under way.
36.   Priva _zatlo  of Housing. The laws on privaization of housing and housing privatization
vouchers were approved in 1992. Since then, 11% of public housing units has been privatized,
corresponding to 180,000 units. In addition, about 12% of total households, which do not have the right
to buy the housing unit they curmrny occupy (e.g. households living on military bases) or which were
on waiting lists, received housing privatization vouchers, which they can redeem against new housing.
In order to accelerate the privatization of housing, the Government intends to introduce amendments to
the legislation to eliminate the remaining restrictions on housing privatization (e.g., veto power of state



ANNEX 3
Em  8 of 10
fams and collectives) and on the re-sale of privatized housing (e.g., prohibition of resale within three
years of privatizaion).
37.   PrivalzaU    of Entarprlm. The Government is committed to the privatization of enterprises
as a critical component of its Program for Transition to a Market Economy. Privatization of state
entrprises through lease buyouts has been taking place since 1991, on the basis of the former Soviet
Union legislation. (Under this law, 257 enterprises employing 60,000 workers were privatized in 1991-
92.) In 1993, the Law on Privatization of State Prperty and the Law on Privatization Vouchers were
approved. According to the existing legislation, two-thirds of total state-owned assets will be privatized
by 1997; one half of these will be privatized by distribution of vouchers to the general population. In
order not to delay privatizaton until the introduction of the voucher program, the GKI has approved
interim guidelines for privatization prior to the implementation of the voucher program, including lease
buyouts.
38.   Following the approval of the 1993 State Privatization Program, in June 1993, the privatiation
of enterprises owned by the central governLnent - mosdy medium and large state enterprises - and by
local governments has begun. Under the program, 10% of the overall privatization target is to be
achieved by the end of 1993. Since the approval of the program, some 700 enterprises and other fixed
assets (small businesses, real estate, military facilities converted to civilian use) owned by the central
government and local governments were identified for privatization by the end of 1993, and privatization
has been completed for over 80 of them. In addition, the co poratization and preparation for sale of 3
large enterprises is under way, with technical assistance by -BRD.
39.   Small-scale privatzation has been given priority by the State Program for Privatization. Several
regional and munkipal goverment authorities - which own the majority of small businesses - have
already approved privatization programs and begun their implementation. Privatization by auctions and
tenders of businesses and other assets owned by local govermnents has begun in Kmsk, Brest, Gomel
and Mogllev. A pilot program for privatization of small businesses owned by the city of Brest is under
way, with technical assistance provided by the IFC. The GKI is committed to provide technical support
to other regional and municipal govermment to facilitate the privatization of small businesses, in particular
by auctions and tenders. To this end, the GKI has identified, in cooperation with local governments'
privatization agencies, some 120 businesses and other fixed assets to privatize by auctions and tenders
by the end of 1993.
40.   The Government intends to develop the institutional framework for mass privatization by vouchers
by establishing mechanisms for rapid, equitable, and incentive-compatible distribution to the general
population, on the basis of approved legislation. By end-1993, the GKI will prepare implementing
regulations, including provisions to allow for adequate flexibility in the application of the requirement
that 50% of assets be privatized by vouchers, to specify terms and buyout price for leases, and to
establish trading arrangements for the vouchers. The distribution of vouchers to the population will be
completed by mid-1994.
41.   The process of privatization of state-owned enterprises is expected to be completed over the nex
four years, as set out by the Program for Transition to a Market Economy. During this period, annual
programs for the privatization of enterprises will be approved, with targets not lower than the targets in
the 1993 program. The Government intnds to undertake only limited investment in productive activities,
in public utilities and to facilitate privafization in areas such as defense conversions. In addition, the
Goverment intends to undetake "passive" resucturing of enterprises, by divesting, downsizing and
breaking up existing enterprises into smaller business units, in order to facilitate their privatization.



ANNEX 3
EmP    2 f LW
42.   Land Reform. In order to facilitate the restucuring of the agriculural sector and the
privatizaton of agricultura enterprises, the Govemment intends to establish clear, seure and tradeable
tenure rights for agricultural land, and to facilitate the development of an active, transparent and
competitive land market, including leasing and other contacta arangements. As a first step, the Law
on Land Ownership was approved in June 1993, allowing for the privaiaon of small plots of land for
subsidiary agriculture and individual residential use, and for leasing of land by individual farmers. On
the basis of this law, 2 million hectares, amounting to 20% of arable land, will be privatized by the end
of 1994 as farms, and an additional 500,000 hectares wilt be privatized for individual residential use.
The Government is preparing implementing regulations for the new law, including measures to ensure
the transferability of lease rights, and has initiated the preparation of a cadastre for the registration of land
tenure and mortgages.
43.   The Govemment intends to strengthen the existing instittional frmework for land reform by
introducing amendments to the Law on Land Ownership to eliminate restrictions on resale, lease, and use
of small plots under private ownership. In addition, the Government intends to submit to the Supreme
Soviet a draft law on the privatization of urban land, including the land currently occupied by enprises
and residential housing other than individual houses.
V. _      ds
44.   The Government is committed to providing a financialy susainable and incentive-compatible
social safety net to protect vulnerable groups during the transition. To this end, in 1991 an
unemployment benefit scheme was introduced and employment centers, carrying out active labor market
programs, were established. More recently, a new Pension Law was approved, means testing was
introduced to target family allowances, and a full review of the extent of in-kind benefits and special
privileges granwe  to specific groups was completed. The Government intends to monitor closely socia
programs, to ensure that they are effective in reaching the targeted groups and that they remain affordable
as the transition process advances.
45.   Unemployed.  The State Committee for Labor and Social Protection is committed to
stngthening the capacity of the employment services to administer unemployment benefits, and to
facilitate the process of labor reallocation through reduction of job search costs. To this end, a program
was adopted in April 1993 to strengthen active labor market programs, in particular job placement and
retraining. A monitoring system to evaluate the effectiveness of current active labor market programs
is being designed, and the level of fimancing of these programs is being defined. In addition, as
unemploymnt inrases and the expenditures on unemployment benefits exceeds 50% of the tesources
of the Employment Fund (from the current level of 10%), eligibility conditions for unemployment
benefits will be tightened. In particular, eligibility criteria will exclude new labor market entrants and
re-entrn, and will extend the required minim  employment record. The possibility of introducing
flat rate benefits will also be considered.
46.   Peasioes. The Government recognizes the need to monitor closely the social protection system,
and intends to establish separate financial accounts for each major program and nsk (old age and
survivors, occupational injuries, disability, sickness, family allowances), in order to facilitate fai
management and cost containment. In addition, the Goverment is committed to reducing financial
pressures on the pension system through modification of the mechanisms for the indexation of pensions
and the imposition of ceilings on higher level pensions. The Government will abstain from further
increases in social security contributions, in light of the high level already in place.



ANNEX 3
Eage 1Q f U
47.   In addition to these short-term measures, aimed at managing the pension system during the
transition, the Govrnment will prepare a comprebensive pension system reform, based on full costing
of options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios. To ensure financial sustainability, the
following options will be considered: revision of indexation mechanisms, lengthening of the period
considered for the calculation of pensionable wage, increas in required working dme and elimination of
exemptions, lowering of replacement rates, reduction of the difference between maximum and minimum
peions, and provision of ncentives for delaying retirement.
48.   FamIes with Children and Other Vulnerable Groups. The Government has already begun
to target assstace to the poorest households. Since 1991, means testing for family allowances led to
the reduction of recipients from 100% o,f &inilies with children aged 3 to 16, to 58%. A proposal for
furither tightening of criteria for family allowances has been submitted to the Supreme Soviet, to limit the
allowances to families with family income per capita up to two minimum wages. In addition to
strngthening means testing, the Government intends to develop more effective targeting mechanisms for
other social assistance programs. To this end, the Government has initiated an analysis of living
conditions, using new survey data and existing information, to identify the characteristcs of the poorest
socioeconomic groups. On the basis of this analysis and the level of finance available for social
asistance, the Government will develop and implemt efedve targeting mechanisms for social
assistance programs.
VW.    -o icM
49.   The Government recognizes the need to strengthen the institutional capacity for economic
management as the transition to a market system progresses. To this end, the Government has initiated
th  implementation of a program of institution building, which was presented to the intnional
community at the preliminay meetng of the Consultative Group, on May 24, 1993, and has since
received support from several bilateral and multilateral agencies, including the Institution Building Loan
approved by the World Bank in July 1993.
50.   These institution building activities will contbute to the implemention of the program for
stabilization and structural reforms presented above. In addition, a group was established in the Ministry
of Finance with the responsibility of monitoring progress in the implementation of the program and of
designing design futre actions to advance the transition process.



REPUBUC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                            ANNEX 4
POUCY MATRIX                                                                   Pbe I of 16
Objives                               ActIs  eady                              Proposed Actias                          Pkposed Acts
| _______________.          _______                       Taken                                 C(    months)                            (7-18    months)
1. MaoeconomIc Stablzton                                                                                                    Reach an _gre11e on a
program for 19949S, including budgetay
targe, with die Word Bank
a. Fimi Pol     min  tdo                 In February 1993, die 1993 budget and    Limit increase in dIe Govement nominal    Mantan prudnt fiscalmnagetent, aimd
Consoidaed  3Goverment deficit at a wd    eonm  plao wee  approved providing      wage bill to 70% of retil price inflation.  at esg resources for priate sector
onite  with monetay targets and          for.  xpenditure reducto meaur           (sne also I.c below)                      ivesnt and generat budgetay savmng
sutin" e extel debt accunmumion.         (subsidies, mltay expenditures, public                                            to finance essial infirsUcture aNd soci
iNestme  odher tha esseiaI               Compenate any redction in t  rates with    svices.
infastructure); reveme enhancing _meure   reduction in tax puivileges.V (see aso 4.a
(ntroduc    andfor inceas of exi  ad    beow)
naual eource to"), Ceing of S% of
GDP on dec financing from h oentrad l      mit oulays of socia funs with exisng
bn,                                      revenm  base.' (e aso 6*4 and 6,b
Pie of most Sood p-odu  (mea meat
products, bt) wen librald ad             Reduce maing sbsidies on bred sad
subidie wer eiminated inJu  1993.        adju  the admistr  pices of mik end
(Oee 2A bdow)                            milk produ  to mainti no subsiin*io
(see also 2.ai below).
Subsdies on milk and milk products wer
eiminated in July 1993.                  Redue subidie on rent and comnnna
services by increaing cost rwovery to 30%
Ceiig on al agriculur produce            by end-1993  (see also 2ai below).
subsidies wer estbldhd in eary 1993.
(se 2.ai below)
Subsidies on  s  and NWcomnral services
wer reduced by ineaig cost rcovery to
'20% as of Ocob  1.



RSPUBUC OF BILARUS - REHABIUTATJON LOAN                                                           ANNEX 4
POUCY MTih2d
Objees                                Aatins Arady                            Proposed Atien                           Pposed Aclo
Ta                                   (24  mth)                               17-18 month)
b.                            ovr and C P di   c o    Credit motow   etablhehtlo allocate   limit icea  in net doesbic asst of de   Chane all inte raft ssdiws trgb
caredit expasion with tde objtivche to  pet of credit by tho Ntionl Dank of      NoW,                                      te Gvm         buftet-
"d   infl mato and oon  exteal          BDetas (NB) to commerc  bank in
payn   imbalances; inras comptton    1992.                                       Mnin refince interest rae of the NBB
and effiiency in the credit allation                                             in line with die Cetal Bank of Russi.e
Procs.                                  Mm refinance        at of dte NBB was
ineased in August to theo lovd of die   Redue sae of directed edit and
corresponding rate of do. Cetal Dak of    sbsdized credit.
ncreaw  shbae of NBB credit alocabtd
oBgh suctions..
Remove res aictu on intebak lendig of
NBB dhu4*i .ediL'
o. Incomes j   : Conrol inlatony        Tax-based noms poliy was intdued ia  Refai from imposn restrictions on wape   EFmGt controls on wage scale in saeo
inertia and restor incentves for         1992, an the form of excess wage tax on  daterinaion in the private sector.      oed entpri  (see aso 4b beow).
P           -lh.                        sawned eauprie.
Taxbted incoms policy suld not be      PEimi    exiing ta-based icom  policy
Tax-based ino;m  poliy was simplified in   applied to private sector             based on minim    wae, and replace wt
1993 (excoss wagp tax based only on                                              indution argets likd to expeed
relaon betweon averag wag and           Limit ncras  in the Govenmeat nomina    intion
miiumn wage).                           wage bill to 70% of retai    infation
lnde         n   mwere simpified in
1993 ( nde      basd only on minimum
wage gw).
Agrement botween Gvenmen  and trad
unions was eded in Febuary 1993,
iming av e mony iooae growh in
1993 to 70-75% of pice inftion.
No contol is imposed on wgep
daXnioi i wpdvec>ft.



31  r      i'
#~~   81
l  S
nti



REURLIC OF BILAIUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                 ANNEX 4
POUCY MATRIX                                                           fP*  4 of- 1
Objectve                          Acilin Akesdy                        Pespeesd Action                      Proposed Actions
I| _________________ -Taken                                                           (2   onts)                           (7-18 moth)
1.  nEk to Promoto Comptton,
L Phid S     d
tekimto eu, _mAdsgmeu
and bdgy po    cud by ptco
cnv    bds an  r_bt  of
&1til-o



REPUBUC OF B          ULAIW - REHABILITATION LWDAN                                                   ANNIX 4
POUCY MATRIXa Sf 6
ObJectlvea                  ~~~~~Aetoas Already                       Pvopsed Adtion                            P'rosedu Actions
._____._____._________            Taken                                  cm w_on                                  (7486 monts
I)  subsidiers  limia te rmaining        Subsdie on most food prodects (umea,       Reduce rmanning subsidies on bmWd. and   Iliaindate susden elecliciy for an
budgetay lbdi  to _onsm i ad             meat preduct, butter) were eimiatd and    adjup at    pn ces of milk a" ml            es ecept houed    by mid-1994. Por
p_&CM ead aon        ddiecktheir prties liberalized iu June 1993.                  produt to mainwtano souelds uineraostrecovery on
Subsd0es on milk and mi produa wene                                                 ebicty to at lest 70% by mid-1994.
deimi d sine Angust, fthough incease    Reduc sse on rents and comim*d
of thdr ad    ed pricoes. Subide on    aevies, public ublis  aod urban taspot   Review 1   mhdolovy for vluatng [onr
bread wafe edoce  by iwreaing its price   by in8easing cost r -.ery at lest to 30%    run elecriy costs aod price decticiqy or
2 ime in Jun.                             by end-1993.                             the basi of appropriate bagon amaSi
Ceiling on budgetay subidfies to          Pass thrugh fiuly aerV coat ireases on
agdrculua produs wre inboduced in        goods oad services whos pnc  ra
y 193, reducing in real        subsidies   adminered. 
to agriculo in h second half of 1993.
Reduce cross-subsidies on deecicky, by
Subsidies on ret and communal svies    in       n triffs to reo    at least the
(ctrdoct, be  hot water, water, sewage,      owing proporton of the cost of
gp, TV, aio, teephoe) wer reduced by   eleoi: 50% fn  househd and 60%
increasing rets and aifa by 3 to S dmes    frm agricual  users, by ead-93.
in Jae, and by 2 to 10 tmes in Octb.
C   o f  o  dF by                        c_iz~~p      on fi - by en
Crouseoubsidles on fiels werm reduced, by    199.
limting to 'priority conmers receving
u id fues km  6 to 2 categore
(agr _iral uses and housebolds).
by icesing tis 3.5 tis fur
househldd, S times fur govrment
agenie and 150 tme for agricultra
.users, bewee August and October, I993.
As of October 1, decticity taiffs recover
the fowing prfton  of dh cost of
eecticiy: 39% km househo, 40%
frnt agriculurl usr, 100% frim
by .



RItlC OF BILARUS - RHABnILITATION LOAN                                                            ANNEX 4
POUCY MATRIX                                                                   Pam 6 of 16
Ob0atv                                Aedons Ahvy                             Proposed A6bas                          Proposed Acion
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _ _ _ _                 Talke                                      mon  s                             (7-18    m nt )
i) Price Resiions on Prodce:            List of e_8pis witd        anm tS    Redom incide   Of profit ceilig on           Revie  is of prduce  subjece to pofit
deimnat ceilinp on profit margin bosed    poswn, basd On market duaro, was       ete8ap       witb domnan   arket posio    eiIng regaton and reduce   eit to
on maret shares,                        paed in eady 1993; he lis includes       by 50% by end-1993."                    include oly entises wih hig
about500 Sentpis  a of August 1993.                       _conomis of cle and wio  import
competitoo, and public ublW-
Reso_io of de CoWC of Mbinrs
regulatin amonopolies was issued in Octobe
1992.
iii) Pioe Resiedon on Trdes: elmnat   Celings n gross dibo magin in             Break up and privatze wholes    with     Elimiate ceili  on profit margins for
ceilings on profit   gs in wholesale and   whoaleW  anWd reta ade wen elminated  doninant maket posto. (See actions for   whosalers expt those dw    domnnt
retil ade.                              io August 1993 and epaoed with ceiings    antirmoopoly policy below).             maret positon by mid-1994.
on profit mais, except for basic
foodstuf and childr  products, for which                                         Break up and privaiz wholesal  with
ceilng on disrbutioan margins were                                               dominant market positin. (see actons for
increased,                                                                       alnti,mo      policy beow).
A decrce was ismsed, on September 30,
93, emIt  ceilings on distribution
mai  NWd profit marinfor all retailers
by Janay 1, 1994.
h liA of wholesals wift dominant
marw poion was       d copi i September
1993.
iv) Loca Pie Restrcin:  elnat                                                    Elinte al P    restrictdn (nch ing
pdie contros by lca  wova       and                                              ceilings on ditrton magi  and profit
local tpgaty bodies.                                                             margins) imposed by loa aulboddes,
ecep for loa uts, nmaotranpt and
sold Aues (coal, wood, pes) for bhsehold
use.
local utliism and urban ftranport (target
findcated in section 2.1 above).



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                            ANNEC 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                    Pan 7 of 16
Objetv                                 Acions Aeady                             Poposed ActAos                            Proposed Actdons
|________________-___                                      Take.                                 (2-6 mout)                                (7-18 mths)
v) Staet Orders: eabs a ompetive    State orden for iutial product, were             iminate sate ordes except for            Replace current onegodaftd pricg practices
and trsparet public prementsytem.  reduced fiom 30% of outpt in 1992 to            Governmens own procuremet and for          for Government proemet with
17% i 1993.                              proueme  for biltea trade ageemet         cometie pres in          ing puc
by end-1993.                              n oficaton of procueme  plan, inviato
to bid, evaluion of at least two bids, tc.
Submit legisaton to te Supreme Soviet on
pubhl prouremoet, nrodcig ndad
contracts.
vi) Domaetic Ditbtom  fcita  ary.                                                  Develop action pla to falit enry in       Puivate on an saccleratd bass who_esl
holesa  and reta trade, mcludin          and reti busnme.
smplfaon of re on and ho            .g,
sale and leaso of commera   c aqM        Imp      t acion plan to facDit  ety in
U=RWLpo                                   wholesale sad reftai trade,.
b. Ilhd: estab
transarent and nenra trad regina
dftat delopment of trade f seto,
elin   inentives to ber.
i)  Administv R            on Exports:   List of expots subaject to licnig and     Em         a liceg  and quoa resci         No additiona hcensig and quota
elioinate al administrave restric    on  quotas wan reduced in May 1993.           on expors by end-1993.*'                  rstrictiom on epors."
exports, except on ro-export of raw
matei  prlc-red   w   biatend trade
ii) Expott Taxe: eiminate ipheit and     JIpu i buxes on foarn cumency rneft    Elimnat wsrnsde reqieents at below-                e10% t  on foreign carecy
oxplicit taxation  of exports.           of expors were reduced, with te           maket exchange rate by end-M993.          recei  of exporters.#
sidaion  of multiple suend
requrements and applable exchange res      iminate all export taxes on those goods  Emnate remaning export taxes.
in January 1993.                           m   ptiew anot d             by ed
1993.~



RUUC OW IRLARUS - RABIMLTION LOAN                                                                ANNEX 4
UOICY MATRIX                                                                pan g16
Objesiva                             Actimn Aleady                           Proposed Actions                        PrFOpe Action
.___.__   ,__  .___  ______                         Takn                                 (  monhs)                              (7-1S mnt
li)          a  Restrict_ow on Imor:   Sbott list of reguaefd impors ad         No additional qunitative restiction
rfrin fion             regulaion of    probited i_*mp    was introdiced in May    (qota  censig, etC) on impots.
b-     cept for helut and saety         1993.
reasom
Iv) Impart Taxes: doi, bamo   and    pmt tax raes wer reucd in May 1993.  Submit draft Customs Code to Suprem
boaden bo  of cut impor ta system.                                              Sovie for apprval. Tme draft Cuoms
A new schedue for import te was         Code wil ehmat curent excepio  to
introduced in Octobe 1993, whih consists   manmm tariff of 20%, and elminat  no
of 4 ralts,  gicd   a   oe rte and a    tariff imprt d.
maims rat of 20%. Temporay
exceptons exist, in the, form of highe
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ MIMp   tax rates  for a  short Hot of goods.  .._,
v) Inmt Subsdies: elimi   impost                                                Pha  out   maig subsidies, with de      Rerin fi&a s di mo ts.
subsdis                                                                         exacpto of subsidies on pbaceuticas.
v) Govemen Procureew  of Import:                                                I*rodue competitive pracdes fr
establish a competti  and tanparet                                              Governme  p       _oemen of imports eo
pubic p?UCeI vsym.                                                              2.a.v above).



RILIC OF BELARUS - RIUJTAlION LOAN                                                                  ANNEX 4
POLlCY MATRIX                                                                   Pa" 9 of 16
Objeotes                              Ation Akendy                             Proposed Ache.,                           Proposed Aeth
Taken                                 (2  mont)                                (7-18 =Dnbs)
c. An-Mooodl  Pdicv: brk-up              Anti-Monopoly Committee was esablise     Conlt die luplaneat io  of the            ini;tiat            of
monopoliesand large vealy integrated    in 199t.                                  prgm  of          p         for identified    proam for tae ad    bo
enteaasetl promot compdtition and to                                               ra ng -        .
falitat reostm ring and privatization;   Anti-Monopoly LAw was approved in
derrelp bgd md           imm            Deoeme 1992 and Imlmetn    .                                                         ePcz ad  i       wm"             o f
for anttruat policy.                     Reglatos in March 1993.                              d                                             pram           o     h
concnrtd p otcd  banuches.
Ust of entise witb donat market
position, ubjet to celng on profit rte,
was co_pld l 1993 on tde bahs of
Ustof kndi ng_atswibh
do anOmarket    potohwsmopLe 
Sepebr 1993.
ed           a     pogm for a major
trade ad              g o
includin processing, transport And
dirbuton tw, was approved in
Sepqmber 1993, and its implem    n was
isaed



REPUBLIC OF  ELARIUS - REABILITATION LAN                                                            ANNEX 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                  Pan 10 of 16
Objectives                            Acios Alrady                             Proposd   sProposed As
__________________________                          Taken                                 (2.6 monts)                             (743 montO)
3. Polies for Prvate Setor
a. Enw.and         emove arm obstacles    Conqany Law wan approved in 1993.                       3    le Co                                        Lar zo  fiw
to Ibe ,dbA t   maop and dow                                                                                                abWonf   fi   of s    dcido    and
of pivat buInese; caaa  a policy         Unit was creaftd in the Ati-Monopoly                                               enhand requmnent on acouig,
eavioe  enabling privae smctar           Co     ee to coordinate activiies to                                               sudng and reporting.
deeoment and foeign mivesten             promo  pivat secto deveopmet
4 Labor Maket Policy: ednance            Labor Law was spprved in 1992,           Complet draft of a comprehensive draft    Submt dft labor code to dte Councd of
eficin  of dke labor maket toug  he      elimng  som restrictions in hiring and    labor code, which would ina   eibiliqt    Miist  by Ja y 1994.
establshmen of a legl ameork tht         firing practices.                        in dke labor narket by: (a) exteig
woud provide _inrased flexibt in hring                                            duration of prbaion periods to a leat  6  Submit labor code to Legidltr by March
and firing practies and cntm             No conro is imposed on wap              monas for al cate    of workers, (b)      1994.
amngernent, ddevelop incentves for lbor   deteinao in the private sector, wilh the   eliminating resticti  on use of fie term
productiviy, and elinate impe      to   exception of minimom wage.                contacts, (o)  dmnaing s a guarantee    Maitio less than    imnexa    of the
kabormbit.                                                                        agairat layof for youths and women wit     inhmum  w    to realo price inflato
childen, ad (d) eliminating residence
-    requi1eme1ts (prpak) for
a     _cetne of lbor contracts.
i) Licensg od Registration: stramine   Registra    procedures for nvw bunes    Review proce  for                of ae       Basd on review, take remedial action
aidmibtAtv procedur  and rdue            were dmplified in June IM.               businesses to failiU   enty, eliminate
gistration cost for estbismnt of nae                                              arbitariness, reduce duraion of processig   Inrodce atonatic rgstation of noew
businesses.                                                              paio                                     b    _snes.
Reduce regstron fee.
.%                                        Reduce he Ist of acdvities subject to
liesn.
b. Acces to Cownei  Red Eat:             An inventory of unfinied constUon         Remove disincentives (e.g. inremenl tax   Initiate privs*zation of idle commercial
facilte access to restat by private      which are owed by publio entrpr    and    on inome from leasing) a  adm in   ve   real esate nd unfinished constuo of
businesses.                              Govemmeat agies and are substally    regons (e.g. celings on rent)                 s_teowved enteprises municipa, oblast
behind completion scheled, for priorty   discouraging the lease of idl commeria   and republi    goveamenLt.
privazatin, was complted. Privazan    ra ese.
of he identfied rea estate begn in July
__________________________________ 1993.



RIPUIUC OF BELARUS - REUHAILITATION LOAN                                                            ANNEX 4
POUCY MATwIX                                    l        Lof 16
Objectim                              Aties Areadt                             Proposed Atios                           Pposed Adtios
TA(   monts)                                                                   (7-18 n1nda1)
4.  PNdcs for Aewutabfly of State.
Owned -u
a.       i                      _Ph    out tax exaprions and privileges.                                                     sabi  qsym for alocatn and
budget c_admiaL                                                                                                             mong Uotn            from d11 Go
b. Cog        Goveo      estabis         Th Stae Commitee for de Mnage             Ideaify and apprv a list of poeal bonrd  Coqpos    tdie 10 lFat statowned
adequaft control auues for autnomy       of Statw Property (GKI) was estbised in    nbers, from whichp            ca   be   entep  seand 10 additona vountes,
and  _cc  *t .                           1992; ownerhip rig  from  dvia           made, iclding qualified no-govnment    and appoint bond membe, including no-
ministries an stat com_m     wer         profesona.                                          Pi. 8
tansferred to GKI, ad  authority to apoint
mager wao delogaed fiom GKI bk to                                                 die 10 largest satatwned copoalins.
idvdAl gecies.
A sadwd chadrer for the cor    a    of                                                  _         &W    h    as sb
state-own aed       and Wompanying                                                bi    u
regulaton were approved. Thes
regu_tions seif the appontmet ad                                                  Simpl   atistica reporting, dwelop
resetve     onsiie of dte boad of                                                 information toob wihin context of c t
directors and the manger,    inves                                                accounting pracies (cost acoutg by
boards of dirctor with resonsity to                                               prduct, cash nlow, etc.)
maxnize profits and with autorit to hire
and fire mger and to dipose of                                                    Establish umnt witin Mit*y of Fine
productve ad oetr asst (up to a                                                   ot GKI, to et p_fmane  rges  ad
seie limit) witout GKI appval                                                     montor fi"naal perfrmnce o f
orpadtd sttwnd o_tapeines.



REPtIUC OF IBLARUS - REJIABJUTATION LOAN                                                          ANNEX 4
POUCY MATRIX                                                                  Do la Of 16
Obj0*es                               AD S Aedy                               Proposed       s                         Prop         s
TAM                                       mo6nts)                             (7468 Uwhs
S. Owlntsp Refm
a. Paivaliration of Hogusm: imlemet    Law on privation of bousing was            todc  e                    lw on        Delop mortg and colata
rpidly doe lw on privadon  of housig    approved in 1992.                        housg priva    to eliminate                iatn
ad deelop an active boung muaket.r                                                           on ialo and  e of priatizd
Privsiaon of 11% of houing uns          housig (e.g., power of state farms asd
accoweUdW on die basis of die lw.       coeve  to veo privatiztion of hog)
and restr      on sale and uee of pivaized
housing (e.g. vow to uae befoe 3 years
firo  privatization, cng on re).
b.   i         of    rs.s reduce        Co_mee for the Maaagement of Staeo       Prep    and aprove guideines for ems     Appovo of 1994 State Privstzton
direct intrentioa of di Govemnt in te   Prperty (OKI) was edtablisod in 1992 (see  and buyout prie of new le   and buyout   Progm wt nooe   targets hn 1993
entei  sectr and tbe hao of ste-        also 4.b above).                         pric of exting lases when not specified    Pom
owned  -es.                                                                      in lease conact.
Law on Privaszton of State Propety,                                              Avoid aditons to die st of e   i  to
1993 Stat Pdvtization Ptoron and LAw       mem  1993 State Privtzao              be rtined uader sta  ownesip.
on Puivatization Vouchr were approved by  Ptogram
die Syrm  Soviet in 1993.
Ulmenting reglations for 1993 State
Prhvaztoo Program and  andard
documads for pr_vaiion wer approved
in August 1993.
Flexible guideines wer introduced, in
lcation of reqremen dint SO% of
asst be pivatzed by vouces, in
'partia widh regard to oma hbsne .



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - RIEHABILITATION LOAN                                                           ANNEX 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                   Page 13 of 16
Objectives                             Actions Ahready                          Proposed Actions                          Proposed Actio
l ______________________________                           Taken                                  (2-6 months)                             (7-18  montbs)
i) Small-Scale Privatzaion: establish a  Small-scale privaization was given priority   Implement privadzation by auctions and  Continue privadzaton of smial busnesse
fast track for simplified and accelerated  by the 1993 State Privafization Program.  tenders of an additional 120 small      by aution and tenders.
privaizaion of smai buinss.                                                        businesses by end-1993.
Simplified crteria for vation of small-
scale busness  were developed in May
1993.
Pflot privatization of snmal businesses
owned by local authorities is undray in
the city of Brest, with echnical assistnce
prvided by IFC.
Pmivation of sinai bu_sne     by auctions
and tenders began in three regions (Minsk,
Gomd, Mogilev).
ii) Privatization of Medium and Large    Identification of 250 republican-level    Offer for sale, by auctions and tenders, of    Corporatize and prepare for sale at least 3
Enterpores: achieve targets of the State  enteprises to be privatized in 1M  was   public Ceterprises, otber than real estate,  large ente2 ises in the 1993 program,
Program for Privatization; avoid 'active'  completed in Sqetmber 1993.             retal stors and service outlets. -I      including disRibution of sde prospectus
restuctuing of enrprises to be privatized;                                                                                   and invitation of investor offers.
undertake "passive" reructuning (break                                             Establish capacity in GKI to implement
up, down-szing, divestiture) to facilitat                                          privatization of large enterprises.
privafization.
iii) Mass Plivatization: estabish        Privatizafion Voucher Law was approved in   Prepare implementing regulations for    Complete distribution of vouchers to the
mechanisms for rapid, equiable, sad      July 1993.                                Voucher Law, including trading            population.
incentive-_ompatble distribution to the                                           arrangements for vouchers.
genera population of the sate assets
reserved for free distribution under the Law .
on Privatzation of State Property.



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                          ANNEX 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                  pgs 14 of 16
Objectives                            Actions Already                          Proposed Actions                         Proposed Ations
Taken                                  A6 months)                              (7-18 months)
o. Land Reform: edablsh clear, secure    Law on Lad  Ownersp was approved in    Develop implementing reglons for newly  Estlish cadastoe for regstrai  of lInd
and tradeabl tenure dghts for agricultural   June 1993. The law allows pvatization of   approved legilation, to estish     tenure and  tgages.
land; facilitae the development of an    small plots (used for subsidiary farming and   tansferabilit of lease nghts.
acie, trans    t and competitive land    reszdenial use) and leasing of land by
market, including lease and other        individal farmers.                       Elminate resrictions on esale, lease and
contractual auangeents; privadze noon-                                            use of small plots under private ownerhip.
fam  agriculural entesprises.
Subwit to Pariament draft law on
privatiaion of land occupied by enterprise.
and resideal housing other an individual
housis.



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                         ANNEX 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                 PaDe IS of 16
Objectives                            Actions Already                         Propoed Actions                          Proposed Actions
Taken                                (2- months)                             (7-18 montbs)
6. Socal Sector Polce
a. Social Safety Net Durins the
lTron: provide a fisal sustainable
and incentecopatAce socia safety net to
protet vulele groups during the
trnston.
|   Unemployed: provide income support to  Unemployment benefit swhemes were     Implement the program adopted in April   As expendits on unemployment benefits
the unemployed during the trasition,    introduced in 1991.                      1993 aimed at strengthening capacity of the   reach 50% of resources of Unemployment
reduce job search costs for the unemployed                                       employment services to admnist           Fund (up from current level of 10%): (a)
and improve job opportunities.          Employment services were establitshed and    unemployment benfits, provide job    ighten eligibilty ondtons (by excluding
acive labor market policies were introduced  placement services And carry out retraining    new entant and are-entrAs, and extending
in 1991. Annual programs have been      program.                                 the required minimum employment record
adopted since 1991.                                                              and impleaent fatrate benefs if
aecessary, and O define leve of finaning
of active labor maet program.
Design a monitoring system to evaluate the
effectiveness of curent retraining
prgrams, and implement by May 1994.



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                           ANNEX 4
POLICY MATRIX                                                                  Pate 16 of 16
ObIectives                             Actions Already                         Proposed Actions                         Proposed Actos
Taken                                 (24 mouths)                             (7-18 months)
(u) Pensionrts:                          New Peasion Law was adopted in 1992, and  Abstain from firthe iceses in scia      Reduce finanial pressure on pension
provide financially sustainable socia    is effective since beginning 1993.       security contributions.                   system by January 1994 (1994 budget)
security system and protct the elderly                                                                                     through modificaios of indexation
during the trnsition.                                                             Establish sepaate financial accounts, within  procedures and ceilings on higher level
the Socia Protection Fund, for each major    penions.
programrisk (old age and survivors,
occupational inuries, disability, sickness,  Pursue the preparation of a pension system
fanmly allowances), to facilitate financial  reform. Options to conider to enu
management and cost containment.         financial 6usainall  include: revision of
indexation mechanism, lengthening of
Distinguish between insurane and         period considered for calculation of
assistnce programs.                      pensionable wage, increas  in required
working time sad elimina of
Establish by December 1993 a policy unit    exeaptons, lowerng replacement rates,
whiin Ihe Ministry of Social Security to  reducing gap between maximum and
prepare a pension system reform based on  inimum pensons, and provision of
ful costing of options under alertive    ientives for delaying retir
econoic and demographic scenarios.
(i) Famiies with Childen and Other      Introduction of means testing (for family  Submit initial proposals regarding criteria    Initiate by January 1994 an ana!ysis of
Vunerabl Groups: target assiste to the   allowanmces for famies with chidren aged 3   for ikntification of poorest socio-economic  living conditions (using new survey and
poorest socioweconomic groups.          to 16) in 1991, leading to reduction of   groups.                                    v. .nag data) to idenlify caracistics of
families with chldren receiving benefits                                          poores s6cio-economic groups ad help
from 100% to 59%.                                                                 design assistance programs for the poor.
Analysis of extent of in-kind benfits and                                         Define ltvel and sources of finnce for
special prvileges grated to spectfic groups                                       social assistance programs by mid-1994.
comple4ed in July 1993.
On the basis on analysis and resource
Phposal was submitted to the Supreme                                              constraints, develop and implement
Soviet to tighten criteria for family                                             effective targeting for social assistance
allowances for families widh children aged 3                                      progams by end-1994.
to 16 children, limiting the allowances to
families with family income per capita up to
2 minimum wages.
Benchmark of IMP STP program.
**1     Acton to be Wipmentd prior to effectivess.



REPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILITATION LOAN                                                 ANNEX 5
Direct Import Component
Procurement Plan
Estimated    Procurement                            Schedule of Major Steps
Nature of Package                Value         Method t    Prep o of                           Preparation of _
I         IOO)S          jbidding documents  Submission of bids  evaluation report   Award of conat
Veterinary Medicines                         9,000          ICB         Febnay 1994         04101194           04/10/94          05/10/94
Agro Chemicals (crop protection agents)     7,000           ICB         Febmuary 1994       04/10/94           04/20194          0520/94
Harvesting Machinery Spare Parts            2,50 at         DC          Febmary 1994        03/25/94           04/05/94          04t25/94
Harvesting Machinery Spare Parts             2,000          ICB          March 1994         05105/94           05/15/94          06/15/94
Crude Petroleum                             30,000         ICB          January 1994        03/05/94           03/15194          04/15194
Transformer Oil and Ion Resins               3,000          ICB          March 1994         05/05/94           05/15/94          06/15(94
Odorants and Catalysts                      2,000           ICB          April 1994         06/05/94           06/15194          07115/94
Essential Medicine                          17,000         ICB          Januay 1994         03/10/94           03/20/94          04/20/94
Raw Material for Pharmaceutical Productions  2,000          ICB          March 1994         05/15/94           05/25/94          06/25/94
Medical Equipment                            1,000          ICB          April 1994         06/15/94           06/25/94          07/25/94
Envir nmental Monitoring Equipment           1,500         ICB           April 1994         06125/94           07125/94          08/05/94
L/ Direct contrating to be instiated at this time. Estimated overall value of direct contracting of harvesting equipment spare parts is US$2.5 million.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
RPUBLIC OF BELARUS - REHABILfTATION LOAN
CONSULTANT'S TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANCE
A.    BACKGROUND
1.    The Republic of Belarus has requested a Rehabilitation Loan from the World Bank. Included
under this loan are funds which are to be used to pay for services of Consultants to assist with the
procurement and disbursement arrangements for the Rehabilitation Loan. This proposed loan is to
support imports in a range of sectors, including:
1.    Foreign Exchange Component                      $ 42.5 m
2.    Direct Imports                                  $  77.0 m
of which (estimated)
Petroleum                                  35.0
Agro-Chemicals                              7.0
Veterinary Medicines                       9.0
Agric. machinery spare parts               4.5
Essential medicines                        17.0
Pharmaceutical raw material                2.0
Enviromnent monitoring equipment            1.5
Medical Equipment                           1.0
3.    Technical Assistance for procurement
and disbursement                               $  0.5
Total                                                 $ 120.0
Time is of essence for the delivery of these goods, which are to be procured and paid for in accordance
with World Bank policies and procedures as they apply to rehabilitation/adjustment loans. It is expected
that there will be 12 to 15 bidding packages which need to be initiated, processed and evaluated as soon
as possible for the entire project over an approximate 12-month period.
2.    This rehabilitation loan is the second lending operation of the World Bank in Belarus, so there
has been litde previous experience with application of the Bank's rules for procurement and disbursement.
The services of Consultants are needed to ensure:
(a)   timely implementation of procurement and delivery of the goods.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
(b)   eligibility of procurement contracts for payment from the Bank; and
(c)   application of correct World Bank disbursement procedures for timely payment to
suppliers under the direct import component and reimbursement under the foreign
exchange component.
B.    SCOPE OF CONSULTANT'S SERVICES
3.    The implementation agency for this loan will be the Ministry of Finance and the PIA has been
created to undertake project implementation. Actual importation will be undertaken by designated
procurement agencies in Belarus. They will distribute goods to the end users and will therefore be
involved in determining delivery requirements, specifications and related items, and will sign the import
contracts. For the most part, payment from the World Bank will be on the basis of Special
Commitments. In addition, a special account will be opened to facilitate disbursements. The Consultant
will advise and assist PIA and these other ministries in carrying out their purchasing and payment
responsibilities. This will include, intr alia, assistance in:
(a)   detailing the procurement plan (type of goods, quantities, cost, delivery requirement,
sources, methods of procurement, World Bank disbursement procedures) and payment
arrangements;
(b)   setting up a project accounting system for loan management;
(c)   preparing bidding documents (using the World Bank's standard documents - including
invitation for bids, contract conditions, forms of securities, contract form, withdrawal
applications) for the procurement of goods. Obtain the no-objection from the World
Bank;
(d)   preparing notification of bidding opportunities;
(e)   preparing and issuing specific bidding documents, including obtaining the World Bank's
no-objection;
(f)   conducting bid opening;
(g)   evaluation of bids, preparation of evaluation reports and recommendation for contract
awards, including obtaining the no-objection from the World Bank;
(h)   establishing procedures for requesting issuance of special commitments;
(i)   establishing procedures for disbursement following the World Bank norms.
G)    ensuring timely replenishment of the special account; and
(k)   carrying out other duties as required to ensure timely implementation of the project.
4.    The Consultant will develop monitoring procedures for use in Belarus for managing future goods
procurement and disbursements consistent with World Bank rules and procedures for both rehabilitation
and routine loan agreements.
5.    The Consultant will provide on-the-job training and use other methods as may be appropriate to
assure the transfer of technology regarding procurement and disbursement.
C.    REPORTS
6.    The Consultant will prepare a monthly report in English providing the status of the project for
each method of procurement and executing agencies. This report will be updated on a monthly basis.



ANNEX 6
Pae I of 3
Five copies should be given to the client and the Bank. At the close of the assignment, the Consultant
will prepare a final report which summarizes the project implementation experience. This report will be
prepared in English with 5 copies for the Client and the Bank.



SWEDEN                     tAl               FRUSSIAN                     LAIVIA                 _
> _s ~~~~~~~~~FEDERMON                                                                                                    To Novik          
To                                                      /                                        1BELARUS
l  / -  RIVERS
SE LARUS
GERMANY          POLAND                                                                                                                                                                                 ROADS
-        ) (RAILROADS
CZECH  UNEP                                                                                                                                                                                   CV I  SELECTED CMES
SLOVAK REP                                                                                                                                                                         0p   Y z \ E DISTRICT CAPITALS
8AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                                            SmOVA t. e \ nsk           *     NATONALTCAPITAL
RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                 OBLASr BOUNDARIES
,  LITH U A NIA   t  <  {   /   S   h O . r h  -IN   INTERNATION A L
T" myt.   Molodechno   Boris ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
POLAND                                                                                M             KM0 #E
RUSSIAN
D N 0                                                                                                                                                       FEDERAIION
TO
Bialysok                                     Sotr
J  hKobtin                                        I.un's                         G     MT O
o                  ~~~~~~~Pinsk                           ikvdi
TO Bilab                                                                       rpo
Toi Che,nsov
Oh.mo        ofs beenpuated by The World Ban'" dtoff VEWdsIyfodr
\   la      50   100                                 T Och                                                             a   atk  of ers  an is for Ote irntme  use ot The   l
laLommks                                                                                             Bank Gmup. ft ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dsnssnnalions usend theO boundaries shown an this
KILOaMETER5,           ,           ,                          UKRAINE                                                                      mo   Ynwko, onthepauof ThnWoudtonkGroup, any judgemnt
MLES or                                                                                                                              an theo anyteritory oranedorsnt or ac  epr
APRIL 1993



