Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3660-BY 
Loan Agreement
(Rehabilitation Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 20, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3660 BY
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October 25, 1993, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
economic stabilization and structural reforms in the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed 
imports and technical assistance required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
 
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement;" and
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the  accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
(b)
"National Bank" means the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus;
 
(c)
"PIA" means the Project Implementation Agency described in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement; and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty million 
dollars ($120,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Page  3
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15  in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that all local currency transactions 
related to the use of the proceeds of the Loan shall be made at the market exchange 
rate.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall sell for the currency of the Borrower all proceeds 
from the Loan under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to the National Bank of Belarus for the 
purposes of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a project implementation agency 
(PIA) within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, which will be at all times headed by 
a coordinator with
qualifications, terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall 
be assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers and by consultants, acceptable to 
the Bank, advising on such matters as procurement and disbursements; and
(b)
The PIA shall be responsible for: (i) advising on, overseeing, and 
coordinating procurement actions under the Loan; (ii) carrying out disbursement 
actions under the Loan; and (iii) maintaining all Project accounts including the 
Special Account. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, 
in order to assist the Borrower in procurement and disbursement activities under the 
Loan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 6 months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  5
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination; Effective Date
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the key staff of the PIA with experience and qualifications acceptable to 
the Bank have been appointed; and
(b)
the offer for sale of public enterprises, including municipally-owned, 
other than real estate, retail stores and service outlets, has taken place through 
public auctions or tenders, in numbers and under conditions for the auctions and 
tenders acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
House of the Government
Minsk
Republic of Belarus
Telex:
252 125 GKVES
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS
Page  6
By /s/ Serguei N. Martynov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds in accordance with the allocation of the Loan to the following Categories:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Direct imports            77,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2) Other imports             42,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'                 500,000        100%
    services,
    studies, train-
    ing and study
    tours
         TOTAL               120,000,000
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower, provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of 
another country from which goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall also be deemed to be "foreign expenditures."
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods under Category (1) unless the goods are agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
expenditures for goods under Category (2), unless the Borrower has 
submitted to the Bank evidence that the National Bank has sold an equivalent aggregate 
amount of foreign currency in the Foreign Currency Interbank Auction of the Republic 
of Belarus  or any successor thereto, as determined by the Bank (hereinafter called 
the FEX Market) on or after the date of this Agreement, provided that the provisions 
of this subparagraph shall not apply to withdrawals under this category pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (d) of this Schedule;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-Group
Description of Items
 
Page  7
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for 
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum 
group metals (except 
watches and watch 
cases) and 
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares 
(including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
(d)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures under 
Category (2) before that date but after September 1, 1993;
(e)
expenditures for goods under Category (1) procured under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each;
(f)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance; and
(g)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
4.
For purposes of this Schedule  the "aggregate amount of currency sold by the 
National Bank" means the aggregate amounts of foreign currency sold by the National 
Bank in the FEX Market in a given month.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1999
through October 15, 2008
6,000,000
 
Page  8
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
