Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1050-BR
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
BRAZIL
ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
April 23, 1976
Industrial Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEITS                             WEIGHTS AND MEASU-RES
Except where otherwise indicated,              All weights and measures are in metric
all figures are quoted in Brazilian            units except as noted:
Cruzieros (Cr) and US $
Cr$1.0            US$0.1176                   1 Metric Ton (t)       1,000 Kilograms (kg)
CR$85         =   US$1.00                     1 Metric Ton (t)       2,204 Pounds
C$1,000,000       USp$117,600                 1 Kilometer (km)   =  0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)      =  2.47 Acres
(Exchange Rate as of 4/13/76 CR$10.27=US$1.00) 1 Cubic Meter (i3)    6.19 Barrels
PRI%TCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ANDA              Associacao Nacional para Diffusac Adubos
ARAFERTIL         Araxa Fertilizantes, S.A.
BNDE              Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
BRASFERTIL         Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A.
CVRD              Companhia do Valle Rio Doce
NFP               National Fertilizer Program
PETROBRAS         Petroleo Brasileiro, S.A.
PETROQUISA        PETROBRAS Quimica, S.A.
AUl               Amonium Nitrate
DAP               Diammonium Phosphate (18-46-0)
K20                Potassium Oxide Content in Fertilizers
N                 Nitrogen Content in Fertilizers
PPMII             Parts Per M4illion
P Os              Phosphate Content; in Fertilizers
SSP               Single Superphosphate
TPY               Tons Per Year
TSP               Triple Superphosphate
Brazilian Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .......................................i - xiv
I.    INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS ..             ..............         I
A.    Industry ......................................                     1
B.   Agriculture ................... ...........                          4
1.   Development and Government Policy ........                     4
2.   Major Crops .           .............................          7
II.    FERTILIZER SECTOR ..................................                     10
A.    Fertilizer Industry - General Background    ......                 10
B.    Fertilizer Use and Agriculture              ................       11
C.    Fertilizer Consumption ........................                    13
D.   Imports ...................          ....................           14
E.   Production, Supply and Demand Forecast                              15
F.   Market and Marketing for Araucaria Project   ....                   16
G.   Distribution System ..........................                      19
H.    Fertilizer Prices and Credit ....            ..............        22
I.   Proposed Fertilizer Market and Marketing Study.                     24
III.    PROJECT SPONSOR ...... .............. ................                   36
A.    BRASFERTIL (New PETROBRAS Subsidiary)  .........                   36
B.   PETROBRAS (and Subsidiaries)  ....            ..............        36
1.   Financial Data .....          ......................          36
2.   Refinery Program and Feedstock
Availability .....       .....................            38
3.   PETROQUISA and Present Fertilizer
Operations .....        .................... .            39
IV.    ARAUCARIA AMMONIA/UREA PROJECT .....................                     44
A.   Project Scope .......         ..........................            44
B.   Technology            ....................................          44
C.   Ecology ............  ..                                            47
D.    Employment and Training ..................         *....           47
E.   Project Administration and Implementation   .....                   47
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Don Brown and Denis Carpio of the
Industrial Projects Department and Edilberto Segura CP II, Lat. Am. & Car.
Dept. based on missions to Brazil in September 1975 and January 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ...........           .           50
A.   Capital Costs ...........................................            50
B.    Financing Plan ........  .... ........... ..........                52
C.   Procurement and Disbursement ....., ............                     55
D.    Allocation of Bank Loan .....   .          ..................       56
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........ . . . . . . .  .................. ..... ........  65
A.    Operating Costs and Financial Forecasts ... ....                    65
B.    Financial Rate of Return .......  ...........o ....                 67
C.   Major Risks ........................................ #..........     67
D.    Financial Covenants ................... ..        ......            69
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .... ................... ...  ........... .              79
A.    World Fertilizer Supply and Economic Prices ...                     79
B.    Economic Rate of Return .......................                     80
C.   Other Benefits ..          .  * .  .......................... . . .  81
VIII.    AGREEMENTS . ..................                ............... .           84
ANNEX
Index of Project File Information
MAPS
IBRD 12054:    Fertilizer Marketing Regions of Brazil
IBRD 12055:    Major Fertilizer Plants and Railroads in Brazil



BRAZIL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON THE ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUMMARY
Introduction
i.        The Government of Brazil and Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A.
(BRASFERTIL) have requested a Bank loan of US$50 million to assist in financ-
ing a 325,000 TPY nitrogen fertilizer complex to be erected in Araucaria, near
Curitiba, Parana. The project would cost about US$272 million including
US$140 million in foreign exchange. In addition to the Bank loan, financing
would be provided by PETROBRAS, US$112 million in equity; the National Economic
Development Bank (BNDE), US$55 million in loan; suppliers' credits, US$35 mil-
llion; and foreign private lenders, US$20 million. Thisloan from foreign
private lenders may be associated with the proposed Bank loan in a cofinancing
arrangement.
ii.       The project has a very favorable economic return, 24%, and will
substantially improve the availability of low-cost fertilizer for Brazil's
agricultural sector, and reduce Brazil's current heavy reliance on imported
fertilizer.  In connection with the project, the Government will undertake
a comprehensive study of the fertilizer sector that is designed to assist
the Government and fertilizer companies in planning for efficient growth of
the sector, both production and consumption.
INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE, AND THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR IN BRAZIL
Industry and Agriculture
iii.      Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the last few years.  During 1967 to 1974 real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%. Industrial growth de-
creased to 4% in 1975 as a result of balance of payment constraints and is
expected to be in the range of 5% to 6% in 1976.  The most dynamic element
of Brazil's industrial expansion has been the production of consumer durables
and capital goods, which increased at an annual average rate of 18% during
1967 to 1974, and now accounts for about 28% of total manufacturing produc-
tion. On the other hand, the slowest growing subsector has been the tradi-
tional consumer goods industries (textiles, clothing, food products) whose
share in manufacturing output declined from 36% in 1967 to 28% in 1974.
Production of intermediate goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber,
semi-finished metals), which account for 42% of manufacturing output, has
increased at a good pace, averaging 12% since 1967. Increased production of
these intermediate goods, however, has not been sufficient to cope with growth



- ii -
in domestic demand, and imports are still significant, reaching US$4.1 bil-
lion in 1975 (excluding petroleum) or 34% of total imports. There is, there-
fore, substantial opportunity for import substitution in this subsector of
industry. The proposed project is part of the Government's program to achieve
self-sufficiency in fertilizers in the next 5 to 10 years.
iv.       While the rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74
was spearheaded by accelerated industrial production, the agricultural sector
also performed well, providing an increasing share of Brazil's growing domes-
tic requirements for food and fibers as well as a rising export volume.
Agricultural output grew at a rate of about 6% per annum during 1967-74, and
at 3.4% in 1975, despite adverse climatic conditions in four out of seven
years. Part of this growth was due to substantial increases in the produc-
tion of new crops, such as soybeans and wheat in the Center Region of Brazil.
At present Brazil has become the world's largest producer of sugar, and it is
the second largest supplier of soybeans, while remaining the world's leading
coffee producer. While the sector's contribution to gross domestic product
has declined from about 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, it still accounts
for over 60% of the value of exports. Three commodities--coffee, soybeans
and sugar--generate 40% of total export earnings. While coffee continues to
play an important role in the sector, accounting for about 12% of output,
its share in total exports has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 11% in
1975.
v.        In the past, Brazil's increasing agricultural output has resulted
mainly from expansions of the cultivated area. From now on, however, agri-
cultural growth will have to depend to an increasing extent on raising the
productivity of presently cultivated areas. The Government has established
a goal of 40% (7% annually) of real increase in agricultural output for the
1975-79 period, with the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost
producers and exporters of foodstuffs. The Government's strategy to achieve
this objective has two components. First, it has allocated substantial
public resources to incorporate additional new areas to agricultural produc-
tion through programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and the
new POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs which provide agricultural credit
and financing of transport and rural infrastructure and the like in the North
and Center-West, respectively. The goal of these programs is to expand
agricultural area by 4% to 5% annually and to encourage settlement to bring
these areas into production as quickly as possible. A second component of
the Government strategy is to increase productivity through modernization
of agriculture and increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds. A sub-
stantial expansion in the supply of credit and complementary technical assis-
tance for the purchase of modern agricultural inputs is included in the
Government program. These inputs should bring about a 2% to 3% annual
increase in productivity necessary to achieve the overall growth target of 7%
for the agriculture sector. The proposed fertilizer project is an important
component of the Government's program to achieve these increases in agricul-
tural productivity.



- iii -
vi.       Increased agricultural productivity is particularly important to
improve the income of small farmers as they are normally unable to increase
their income by expanding their areas under cultivation. To this effect,
the Government has introduced special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE,
which is designed to improve small farmers' productivity in the Northeast
through the formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects.
It has also reorganized federal research and extension services to serve a
broader segment of the rural population. In addition, it recently introduced
a crop/credit insurance scheme to insure farmers against a large portion of
losses resulting from natural disasters.
vii.      The overall package of new programs reflects a shift in agricul-
tural policy in Brazil. The past orientation of the Government's agricul-
tural policies was predominantly toward the promotion and establishment of
large and commercially oriented agricultural enterprises as the main invest-
ment for developing the agricultural sector. It was feared that small-farmer
programs would absorb considerable public expenditure without a commensurate
increase in production. It was also assumed that large-scale agricultural,
agro-industrial and industrial development would generate more employment
opportunities to absorb redundant or low productivity agricultural labor than
any program to assist small farmers directly. Previous efforts to help the
rural poor were often restricted to social services, whereas the Government's
new approach represents an attempt to achieve both distribution and produc-
tion ends. To be sure, no overnight eradication of rural poverty, which has
been endemic in some regions of Brazil, especially in the Northeast, for
decades, is likely to be forthcoming from these programs. Nevertheless,
responsible efforts to improve the productivity of Northeast agriculture
together with programs to increase industrial activity in the region already
have resulted in a more rapid growth of per capita income in the Northeast
than in Brazil as a whole; with the initiation of new programs this process
is expected to continue under the Second Development Plan.
The Fertilizer Industry
viii.     At present, Brazil's fertilizer industry consists of a large number,
about 25, of relatively small private sector and Government-owned companies,
with a total production capacity of 270,000 tons of nitrogen and 690,000 tons
of phosphate. The industry has concentrated on importing, mixing, blending
and distribution, rather than on establishing large scale, efficient produc-
tion facilities. Many companies compete at the retail level largely with
imported materials, while only a few companies have their own, generally
small, production facilities, which have to be protected when world fertilizer
prices are low. The low levels of domestic production have been due, in part,
to the fact that Brazil is not well endowed with easily exploitable natural
rcsources for the production of chemical fertilizers. Natural gas, the ideal
raw material for nitrogen fertilizers, has been found only in the Northeast
and not in large quantities. On the other hand, large deposits of phosphate
rock have recently been found in the center of the country, but they are of
low nutrient concentration and only one deposit is currently being exploited
on a large scale. Since at present the local industry has a small capital



- iv -
base and generates only limited amounts of funds for reinvestment, and since
large-scale new facilities will require substantial investments, expansion in
fertilizer production will have to be financed mainly from outside the present
industry.
ix.       With the objective of protecting local fertilizer producers, and
in view of the wide fluctuations in international fertilizer prices exper-
ienced in the past, the Government established a quota system that requires
retailers to purchase a given proportion of domestic for each unit of imported
fertilizer. The Government has changed this ratio periodically depending on
price levels and local availability.  When international prices were high, as
in 1973-75, imports could be made freely; but under current low international
prices, imports are permitted only if the retailer purchases a given propor-
tion of local production. The Northeast is exempted from this quota system.
As new, large-scale efficient fertilizer plants now planned enter into pro-
duction, prices of domestic fertilizers are expected to move in line with
long-term international prices, thereby obviating the need for the import
quota system. The Government continuously reviews its fertilizer import
policies and has agreed to exchange views with the Bank on this matter (see
Section 3.04(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Fertilizer Consumption
x.         Growth of fertilizer consumption in Brazil has been rapid but also
erratic. From 1965 to 1972 fertilizer consumption increased at an annual
average rate of 29%, but over the past three years it has levelled off, pri-
marily as a result of the sharp increase in international prices during that
period and the scarcity of fertilizer in the world market. In 1975, fertil-
izer consumption stood at 1.9 million nutrient tons, of which 21% was nitro-
gen, 47% phosphate, and 32% potash. The relatively high ratio of phosphate
consumption is agronomically justifiable, based on soil characteristics in
Brazil. Sugar, coffee, soybeans andl wheat are the major crops using fertil-
izers, accounting for 60% to 70% of total consumption. As mentioned in
paragraph v above and paragraph xiv below, the Government is now stimulating
greater fertilizer use in order to achieve increases in agricultural output.
These Government efforts, and the fact that international fertilizer prices
are now again at a lower level and are expected to remain so for the next
few years, should result in increases in domestic fertilizer consumption
averaging between 8% and 10% per year until 1985. By that time, fertilizer
consumption would reach between 4.2 and 5.2 million nutrient tons, of which
nitrogen is expected to represent between 1.4 and 1.8 million tons.
Fertilizer Supply
xi.        Although domestic fertilizer production has grown at an average
annual rate of 25% since 1965 and reached a level of 560,000 nutrient tons
in 1974, it supplies less than 30% of consumption. In 1974, Brazil's imports
of fertilizers cost US$492 million, representing a considerable strain in
Brazil's balance of payments. Since most Brazilian producers are not large
enough to produce fertilizer on an economical basis, domestic fertilizer



v 
prices have been relatively high, except during 1973-75, when they were sur-
passed by abnormally high international prices. The relatively high prices
of fertilizer in Brazil constitute a major obstacle to the Government's
objectives of increased agricultural production and improvement of rural in-
comes. Therefore, in 1974, the Government launched a National Fertilizer
Program for a major expansion of production based on large-scale, efficient
plants, with a view to achieving self-sufficiency by the mid-1980s. The ex-
pansion of nitrogen production has been entrusted to PETROBRAS, a Government-
owned petroleum company which has responsibility for the exploration and
exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon resources. Owning two fertilizer
plants that represent 55% of present installed nitrogen capacity, PETROBRAS
has substantial experience in this subsector. In the next five years,
PETROBRAS plans to complete four major nitrogen projects with a total produc-
tion capacity of 1 million tons of nitrogen. The first project (expansion of
PETROFERTIL, see paragraph xviii) is scheduled to start production in 1977,
the second, which is the proposed project, by 1979, and the other two by 1980
and 1981 respectively. By the mid-1980s, domestic nitrogen production should
satisfy about 90% of the expected domestic demand of about 1.4 million nutrient
tons of nitrogen. While it is clear that the expansion of the domestic ferti-
lizer sector is desirable, the available data on the fertilizer market and on
the marketing system is insufficient for effective planning of the sector's
future development. To overcome this deficiency, the Government will under-
take a comprehensive fertilizer market and marketing study (see paragraph
xiii below). It is evident that fertilizer use and production will expand
greatly and that increased agricultural production is a viable development
goal for Brazil, but much more analysis and planning is necessary if fertil-
izer development is to take place efficiently.
xii.      To ensure proper coordination in the carrying out of the expansion
of the fertilizer industry under the National Fertilizer Program, the Govern-
ment in 1974 constituted a National Fertilizer Commission, with representa-
tives from the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Planning, Transport,
Agriculture and Finance. This commission is also charged with the respon-
sibility of formulating policy and planning to facilitate the growth of the
fertilizer sector. It has concentrated largely, however, on increasing pro-
duction, and little attention has been paid to the marketing and distribu-
tion aspects of the sector, as explained below.
Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
xiii.     About 90% of total fertilizer consumption is processed through
blenders which are either owned by fertilizer manufacturers (25% of total),
independent companies (65%) or cooperatives (10%). The Government intends
that private firms continue to handle the marketing and distribution aspects
of the sector. However, the rapid expansion of consumption expected in the
next few years, and the changing pattern of supply, might create a severe
strain on the existing fertilizer marketing and distribution network. At
present, with imports providing much of the total supply, imports can be
timed to match the major marketing season. The four-month period of May-
August normally represents 50% of total fertilizer consumption. As supply



- vi -
switches to domestic production, with uniform production throughout the year,
storage and financing will become more of a problem. Thus, an analysis of
future storage and credit needs, both at wholesale and retail levels, is
essential. Transportation could also become an important bottleneck for the
increase in fertilizer consumptior., especially in the regions where agricul-
tural production will increase most rapidly. To analyze all these potential
bottlenecks, and their effect on future fertilizer consumption, the Government
has agreed to undertake a marketing and distribution study under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.04(a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). This study would have the following objectives: (i) develop
projections of demand and supply of fertilizer in Brazil; (ii) propose a
mechanism to periodically update these projections; (iii) determine the re-
quirements for further investments in facilities for manufacturing, mixing,
storing, transporting and marketing fertilizers; and (iv) analyze fertilizer
availability and use, including prices and subsidies, credit requirements, and
the effects of cropping patterns and farm size and location on fertilizer use.
The Government has also agreed to exchange views with the Bank, with regard to
the Government's fertilizer import and pricing policies and its plans for co-
ordinated expansion of the Brazilian fertilizer industry (see Section 3.04(b)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
xiv.      As mentioned, international fertilizer prices were at a high level
in 1973-75 causing a decline in the purchasing power of agricultural products
in relation to fertilizers and inducing a levelling off of fertilizer con-
sumption in Brazil. Concerned about the impact of lower fertilizer consump-
tion on its plans for expanding agricultural production, in April 1975 the
Government introduced a 40% price subsidy towards the purchase by farmers
of fertilizers. At the same time, the Government required banks to charge
15% interest on fertilizer credit, which had been previously interest-free.
The net decrease in cost of fertilizer to the farmer resulting from the
measure was in the neighborhood of 30 to 35%. The Government continuously
reviews its policy towards prices and subsidies and it is likely that, since
international prices have decreased and as domestic ex-factory prices decline
in response to more efficient local production, the subsidy will be gradually
reduced or eliminated. In conjunction with the price subsidy, the Government
also established a system of indirect fertilizer price controls at the retail
level, under which banks (which grant credit for more than 95% of all ferti-
lizer sold) will not lend for fertilizer priced above the ceilings. This
price control system has only recently been introduced so its effect is not yet
known. But it is designed to limit profits especially on imported fertilizers
to a reasonable level and to stabilize prices.
THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept
xv.       The project consists of a 1,200 metric tons per day (TPD) ammonia
plant, of which 830 TPD ammonia would be converted to 1,500 TPD of urea, and



- vii -
about 370 TPD ammonia would be sold directly to other fertilizer producers.
The project would add about 325,000 tons per year of nitrogen to Brazil's
fertilizer capacity which, as mentioned above, presently includes a nitrogen
component of only 270,000 tons per annum. The project would be located in
Araucaria, Parana, adjacent to a petroleum refinery that PETROBRAS is cur-
rently building. The refinery would provide the feedstock to the project
(a high sulphur residual petroleum fraction that has limited alternative uses)
as well as electric power, steam, water and other utilities.
B.   Project Implementation
xvi.      Following PETROBRAS' normal procedure that it has used in building
its own refineries and ammonia plants (paragraph xi), BRASFERTIL, with the
assistance of PETROBRAS project staff, will have overall responsibility for
the project. Basic engineerng (plus foreign procurement services) will be
obtained from two internationally experienced engineering firms (Uhde and
Lurgi, of the Federal Republic of Germany). Detailed engineering (and local
procurement services) will be provided by an experienced Brazilian engineer-
ing firm, Natron-Consultoria e Projetos, S.A. Erection will be contracted to
local firms. Uhde and Lurgi will provide supervisory personnel during engi-
neering, procurement, erection and commissioning, as well as process guarantees
for plant performance. Engineering work started in January 1976, and it is
expected that the project will start commercial production in July 1979. The
experience of PETROBRAS, which has built several refineries and fertilizer
plants in Brazil, and the engineering contractors, who have extensive design,
constructing and operating experience in other similar plants, will facilitate
project execution.
xvii.     PETROBRAS is a Government-owned corporation established in 1953
with a legal monopoly for the exploration and exploitation of Brazil's
hydrocarbon resources. At present PETROBRAS has eight refineries in opera-
tion with a total capacity of about I million barrels per day (BPD) of crude
and owns and operates a large retail system. It is currently building two
new refineries, one at Araucaria (Parana) and the other at Sao Jose dos
Campos (Sao Paulo), which would add by 1979 an additional 310,000 BPD of crude
capacity. Brazil currently imports about 80% of its 900,000 barrels per day
petroleum consumption. In order to reduce this import dependence, PETROBRAS
has sharply increased its exploration program, and has announced its intention
of entering into service contracts with foreign companies. As a result, its
total investment program increased from US$600 million in 1973 to US$1.4
billion in 1975 and is expected to reach US$1.8 billion per year during 1976
through 1978. During 1976-78, internal funds would provide about 54% of all
funds required by PETROBRAS, with new equity supplying 13%, and loans 33%.
On this basis, the financing program of PETROBRAS is sound, as is PETROBRAS'
current financial position. As of December 31, 1975, its net worth was
US$3.6 billion. Its current ratio stood at 1.6:1 and its long-term debt to
equity ratio at 25:75. During the year ending December 31, 1975, net income
reached US$679 million equivalent.
xviii.    PETROBRAS is already substantially involved in the nitrogen fertil-
izer industry through its wholly owned subsidiary PETROQUISA, which owns two



- viii -
fertilizer companies, ULTRAFERTIL in Sao Paulo (about 85% of shares, with
IFC owning 5%) and PETROFERTIL in Bahia (100% of shares). ULTRAFERTIL was
established in 1966 with majority ownership in the hands of Phillips Petro-
leum Company, a US petroleum and fertilizer company. IFC participated in
the financing of this company providing US$11.2 million in equity and loans.
Financial problems, related to technical difficulties that led to low capa-
city utilization, caused Phillips to withdraw in 1974 and PETROBRAS acquired
all of Phillips interest in ULTRAFERTIL. Following an improvement in the
production of all ULTRAFERTIL units, and with the substantial fertilizer
price increases in 1974, ULTRAFERTIL was able to earn a large net income in
that year.  ULTRAFERTIL and PETROFERTIL, with an installed nutrient capacity
of about 150,000 TPY, account for about 55% of the present nitrogen produc-
tion capacity of Brazil. PETROFERTIL is undergoing a substantial expansion
program which would add another 225,000 TPY of nitrogen capacity in 1977.
xix.      PETROBRAS has recently created a new, wholly owned subsidiary,
Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A. (BRASFERTIL), to own and operate the proposed
project in Araucaria and also the two other ammonia/urea projects to be im-
plemented shortly. Staff for the plant will be recruited largely from other
PETROBRAS operations, including existing nitrogen fertilizer units, and would
include the staff at PETROBRAS now in charge of the execution of the project.
Adequate training will be provided under an existing and extensive training
program of PETROBRAS and by the two engineering contractors. The new company
will be a public corporation and PETROBRAS intends eventually to offer shares
for sale, particularly to existing private sector fertilizer companies.
Production and Market Aspects
xx.       The ammonia plant will be based on partial oxidation technology
(Shell process) and will be a single train installation. The urea plant,
based on Stamicarbon (Netherlands) technology, is also a single train design.
Both units would be the first of their design and size in Brazil but repre-
sent modern, commercially proven technology. The ammonia plant design is
based on a successfully operating uniit, owned by Veba-Chemie in the Federal
Republic of Germany, that was designed and built by the same German engineer-
ing companies, Uhde and Lurgi, that will build the Araucaria project. The
two companies are also supplying the basic design for similar units in two
IDA-financed projects now under construction in India-Nangal (Report No.
46-IN) and Sindri (Report No. 569-IN). The ammonia plant will consume about
1,400 TPD of heavy residual petroleum for both feedstock and fuel to be
supplied by the adjacent Araucaria refinery which will be the only source of
feedstock, since the raw material is not easily transported. The aforemen-
tioned level of consumption will represent about 44% of the expected heavy
residual output of the refinery. The balance not consumed by the plant will
be sold for industrial steam generation and fuel application after blending
with lighter fractions to reduce viscosity and sulphur. To ensure the supply
of feedstock and utilities to BRASFERTIL, PETROBRAS and BRASFERTIL have agreed
to enter a long-term contract regarding the supply and pricing of feedstock
and of the utilities from the refinery (see Section 4 of the draft Shareholders
Agreement). Effluents from the plant will be controlled to reasonable levels
and environmental considerations are satisfactory.



- ix -
xxi.      Ammonia and urea from the proposed project will be marketed in the
Center Region of Brazil, of which the States of Sao Paulo and Parana have
traditionally accounted for more than 90% of the Region's fertilizer use.
The Center Region is expected to account for about 60% of Brazil's fertilizer
consumption in the next decade or so. PETROBRAS intends to use present
channels for the marketing of the output of the project. In particular, it
would use its subsidiary, ULTRAFERTIL, which has a strong marketing organiza-
tion. ULTRAFERTIL does not produce urea and is short of ammonia, but markets
significant quantities of both at present. PETROBRAS also plans to distri-
bute the output of BRASFERTIL through the large number of blenders and
dealers now operating in the Center Region.
xxii.     Nitrogen supply and demand are forecast to be in substantial balance
in the Center Region by 1982 after both Araucaria and the other PETROBRAS
ammonia/urea plant in Paulinea, 1/ Sao Paulo, reach full production. After
1982, a deficit is expected to reappear as consumption increases. A third
nitrogen fertilizer plant for the Center would be needed after the mid-1980s.
Although these assumptions are highly tentative, the forecast indicates that,
though the market for the Araucaria project is not a major problem, the pro-
jected close balance in supply and demand emphasizes the need for more atten-
tion to marketing. As mentioned in paragraph xiii above, the supply and demand
situation in Brazil will be closely monitored by the Government and the market-
ing and distribution study will provide the basis for planning the necessary
improvements in the distribution system.
C.   Project Cost and Financing
xxiii.    The project requires financing of US$272 million equivalent, includ-
ing working capital and interest during construction, of which US$140 million
is in foreign exchange. The capital cost, which is summarized below, is based
on prices as of the end of 1975 and includes provisions for physical contin-
gencies and price escalation. Price escalation is relatively low since engi-
neering has already started (January 1976) and most equipment will be ordered
on a fixed price basis during 1976. The project qualifies for 80% exemption
from import duties.
1/   The Inter-American Development Bank is considering financial assistance
for this project.



ARAUCARIA - SUMMARY CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
(in US$ millions)
Foreign       Local
Exchange   Currency       Total      %
Equipment and Materials                        74.8         44.8 /1   119.6       62
Engineering and Licenses                        9.8          6.1        15.9       8
Land and Civil Works                            2.2         13.9        16.1       9
Erection, Supervision and
Pre-Operating Costs                           7.9        32.8         40.7     21
Base Cost Estimates /2                   94.7         97.6       192.3    100
Physical Contingencies /3                       8.0          8.2        16.2
Price Escalation /4                            12.5         13.8        26.3
Installed Cost                          115.2        119.6       234.8
Working Capital                                 6.5          6.9        13.4
Interest During Construction                   18.3          5.4        23.7
Financing Required                      140.0        131.9       271.9
/1   Includes US$3.6 million for import duties.
/2   At end of 1975 prices.
/3   10% for directly imported equipment and duties; and 9% for local purchases
excluding engineering and land.
/4   14% for equipment, civil works, erection, local supervision, physical
contingencies.
xxiv.     The financing plan for the project envisages that 41% of the financ-
ing required (or US$112 million) will be provided as equity by PETROBRAS with
the balance provided as suppliers' credits (US$35 million), as loans from
foreign private lenders (US$20 million),        the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvi-
mento Economico (US$55 million) anc    the World Bank (US$50 million) (see
Section 3(b) of the draft Shareholder Agreement).
xxv.      PETROBRAS proposes to obtain a loan of at least US$20 million
through one or more foreign private lenders. This loan may be associated with
the proposed Bank loan, in a co-financing arrangement similar to that asso-
ciated with the Bank's 1975 loan to Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (Loan
1151-BR), if PETROBRAS is able thereby to obtain more favorable terms from the
private lenders. This loan could either take the form of a long-term private
placement with institutional investors, or a medium-term Eurodollar operation.
The terms of a long-term operation would be 10 to 15 years, including about 4
years of grace, at a fixed interest rate. PETROBRAS has already established
lines of suppliers' credit which are being used as needed by its several on
going and future projects. Considering the likely competitive sources of



- xi -
imported equipment and the existing as well as possible sources of suppliers'
credits, the project is expected to be able to utilize efficiently about US$35
million of these credits. These tied credits will have maturities of five to
ten years, including about three years of grace at an average interest rate of
about 10% per year. Since the construction period is three-and-one-half years
and the grace period of the suppliers' credits is at most three years only,
some refinancing of the loans would be necessary. However, it is likely that
the suppliers' credits will be extended to PETROBRAS and not made directly to
the project entity. In this case PETROBRAS will onlend the equivalent amount
to the project with a grace period of four years or up to about mid-1980, at
which time the project will have been in production for about one year. On
the other hand, if the credit is extended directly to the project entity, then
PETROBRAS will provide additional funds (as loans to the project) for principal
repayments during the construction period (see Section 3(c) of the draft Share-
holders Agreement).
xxvi.      The principal amount of the BNDE loan would be subject to monetary
correction, in accordance with the domestic inflation rate, with a real
interest rate of 4% per annum. BRASFERTIL has applied to BNDE for a loan
in constant January 1976 cruzeiros of about US$47 million equivalent, with
monetary correction during the disbursement period adding an estimated US$8
million for a total disbursement of US$55 million equivalent in current terms.
This loan amount would be reduced if the company decides to obtain funds
from foreign private lenders in excess of US$20 million. Given the Govern-
ment's policy of periodically adjusting the exchange rate on the basis of
the difference in international and domestic inflation rates, the BNDE loan
would be equivalent to a conventional foreign loan with an interest rate of
about 13% annually. PETROBRAS has asked BNDE for a loan with a maturity of
15 years.
xxvii.    The World Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent is proposed for 15
years, including 4-1/2 years of grace at 8.5% annual interest plus a 1.5%
guarantee fee to the Government. The Bank loan, the BNDE loan and possibly
the foreign private loans as well, will be made to BRASFERTIL. The company
will bear the foreign exchange risk for all the foreign loans. Should any
shortfall occur in the financing plan, or should the project require addi-
tional funds, PETROBRAS will provide the necessary funds in the form of
equity and/or loans to complete the project (see Section 3(a) of the draft
Shareholders Agreement). The funds will be provided in a form that will
ensure that BRASFERTIL's debt to equity ratio at project completion will not
exceed 60:40, and its current ratio will not be lower than 1.2 to 1.0 (see
Section 3(a) of the draft Shareholders Agreement). The expected cash genera-
tion and borrowing program of PETROBRAS will be adequate to finance its in-
vestment programs including the equity contribution for this project.
D.   Procurement
xxviii.   The proceeds from the Bank loan would finance expenditures for:
(a) equipment and materials procured through international competitive bid-
ding (US$26.0 million); (b) imported items costing US$100,000 or less procured



- xii -
through international shopping 1/ (US$3.4 million); (c) proprietary, limited
or long delivery items critical to the timely completion of the project, also
procured through international shopping (US$7.0 million); and (d) licenses,
engineering and supervision services (US$13.6 million) that are already
contracted using acceptable procedures. Although local suppliers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15% (or the import duty rate, if lower) for
purposes of bid evaluation, foreign suppliers are expected to provide all of
the items to be financed by the proposed loan. Retroactive financing of up to
US$3.5 million would cover payments made after January 1, 1976, for licenses,
engineering and supervision services (about US$3 million) and for item (c)
above (about US$0.5 million) (see paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
xxix.     A separate list of goods, jointly determined by PETROBRAS and the
association of local manufacturers, will be reserved for local procurement.
Domestic suppliers are expected to provide equipment and supplies totalling
some US$68 million (including contingencies and price escalation) and PETROBRAS
estimates that on average local equipment would cost about 25-30% more than
the CIF price of imports. This percentage is lower than the average customs
duty for the equipment concerned. Finally, there will be a third list of
goods to be financed by suppliers' credits. Selection of suppliers will take
into account, in addition to price and quality, the terms and conditions of
the proposed financing.
E.   Financial and Economic Benefits
xxx.      Over the life of the project the average international FOB price of
urea is expected to average about US$160/ton (bagged) in constant 1975 US
dollars. This price is much lower than the price of about US$300/ton during
1974 and early 1975. By April 1976, international prices had dropped to
about US$110-150 per ton due to supply surpluses; they are expected to remain
low for a year or so, and then gradually increase to US$160 per ton. Since
the project's output will substitute for imports, freight and handling charges
to the market area are added to arrive at a delivered price of US$215/ton
(bagged) for urea which is used for the economic analysis. The economic price
of ammonia, US$180/ton delivered, was derived from the urea price, assuming
that, on a nutrient basis, the nitrogen in urea is twice as valuable as the
nitrogen in ammonia.
xxxi.     The financial analysis (in constant 1975 US dollars) assumes an
ex-factory urea price of US$195/ton, which is about 90% of the estimated
full cost of imports delivered to the market area. Ammonia, as an interme-
diate product, is priced at the full cost of imports, i.e., at US$180/ton.
The average production cost, at 90% capacity utilization, is about US$120/ton
of ammonia and US$100/ton of bagged urea. These cost figures are based on a
1/   International shopping, as a procurement procedure, requires the
Borrower to obtain quotations from a reasonable number of capable
suppliers.



- xiii -
feedstock and fuel oil cost of US$40/ton, which is US$5 higher than the
present cost of US$35/ton. The project would then have a financial rate of
return of 22% before and 18% after income taxes. The financial forecast
indicates a strong financial situation for BRASFERTIL, with a debt service
coverage ratio in excess of 2.5 and the capacity to distribute dividends by
1980. The forecasts for BRASFERTIL assume a dividend payment equivalent to
10% of the equity, which is comparable to the dividend payments of successful
Brazilian enterprises. Even with this dividend rate, the enterprise is
expected to accumulate substantial funds for reinvestment. The debt-equity
ratio would improve rapidly from 56:44 in 1979 to 31:69 by 1982. BRASFERTIL
has agreed to maintain, at all times after project completion, a debt-equity
ratio of 60:40 or better and a current ratio of at least 1.2 to 1.0. It will
not incur any debt if the projected debt service coverage ratio would thereby
fall below 1.5 to 1.0, nor will it pay dividends (other than dividends on
preferred shares), prepay debt or make any cash distribution if the current
ratio would thereby fall below 1.5 to 1.0 (see Section 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
xxxii.    The annual economic value of the project's output of about 292,000
TPY of nitrogen is estimated at US$107 million in constant 1975 dollars, and
the economic rate of return at 24%. Although the feedstock is not a readily
marketable commodity, it has been imputed an economic price of US$50/ton on
the basis that it can be blended with some lighter petroleum fraction (e.g.,
kerosene) and upgraded to commercial heavy fuel oil specifications, which
would then have an economic price of US$65/ton. The economic production cost
is about US$85/ton of bagged urea and about US$100/ton of ammonia. The
project's economies of scale, its use of a relatively inexpensive feedstock,
and its import substitution role account for the favorable rate of return.
The high economic rate of return justifies the high priority accorded by the
Government to the project and the fertilizer sector in general.
F.   Conclusions
xxxiii.   The project has a high economic return and will increase the avail-
ability and stability of fertilizer supply in Brazil at a low cost; it will
thus help alleviate the balance-of-payments constraint to the country's growth.
Coupled with the proposed fertilizer study, it should permit increased effi-
ciency in fertilizer use in the center of Brazil, and contribute substantially
to improved agricultural production and exports.
xxxiv.    PETROBRAS and engineering firms have the management and technical
capability necessary to minimize project risks in there areas. Since the
project enjoys economies of scale and would be one of the most efficient pro-
ducers, product pricing will not be a major risk. Nonetheless, the Govern-
ment has agreed that it will not take any action with regard to the price of
ammonia, urea and feedstock, that may prevent BRASFERTIL, operating effi-
ciently, from covering its costs, servicing its debts, and earning a reason-
able return on its invested capital (see Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). To ensure that fertilizer marketing will not become a problem,



- xiv -
the Government will investigate in greater depth the market and marketing of
fertilizer to identify bottlenecks that may depress consumption, especially
inadequacies in the distribution, storage, blending facilities, and the whole-
sale and dealer network. The proposed marketing study will identify potential
bottlenecks and investment requirements and recommend steps to improve the
marketing system.



I. INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
A. Industry
1.01      Industry has played a central role iLt the rapid growth of che
Brazilian economy in the last seven years. Between 1967 and 1974, real
industrial output increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%, while the
country's net domestic product (NDP) grew at a rate of 10.2%. The increase
in industrial production accounted for 37% of the total increase in NDP,
and its share of NDP has increased from 29% in 1967 to 33% in 1974. Employ-
ment in industry increased at an annual rate of 5.9% during the 1960s, as
the proportion of the labor force employed by industry increased from 13.1%
in 1960 to 17.8% in 1970, with this trend continuing during the 1970s. About
72% of the country's industrial product is generated by the manufacturing
subsector, and 20% by construction. The favorable investment climate led
also to a considerable growth of direct foreign investments, which amounted
to US$930 million in 1975, compared to an annual average of US$180 million
during 1968-72.
1.02      After seven years of very rapid growth when GDP in real terms aver-
aged 10.2% annually and per capita incomes registered a gain of 62%, the
growth of the Brazilian economy slowed down considerably in 1975. Deliberate
government policies aimed at restoring equilibrium in the external accounts
and adverse climatic conditions, which reduced agricultural growth and pro-
duced export shortfalls, restricted overall GDP growth to about 4% in 1975.
In addition to reducing exportable surpluses, the frosts also put pressure
on domestic prices of most food items, and the overall rate of inflation of
29.4% though lower than the 34.5% registered in 1974, was higher than the
government target of 25%.. Industrial production started to decelerate in the
second half of 1974, as domestic demand slackened in response to a decline in
real wages. Tight monetary policy, import restrictions, higher inflation rates,
deceleration of export demand, and uncertaintv about the future reduced indus-
trial sector growth to about 3.5% in 1975 compared to 8.2% in 1974. Starting
in the third quarter of 1975, industrial production started to pick up,
growing at an annual rate of 6-7%. However, dtue to the balance of payment
constraint, industrial growth is expected to be in the range of 5% during the
next year or so.
1.03      The expansion of the manufacturing sector in Brazil has been accom-
panied by substantial reductions in tariff protection. According to a recent
study 1/ the average effective protection afforded to manufacturing indust-
ries has decreased from 181% in 1966 to 76% in 1967 and 47% in 1973. This
expansion was also characterized by the development of sophisticated consumer
durable and capital goods production, especially transport equipment and
household appliances. The initial impetus for this was the opportunity to
supply consumer durable goods to a large domestic market well defined by the
early pattern of Brazilian imports. In recent years, however, consumer dura-
ble goods production has expanded well beyond the limits demarcated by earlier
demand for imports. From about 170,000 units in 1968, production of motor
vehicles increased to 858,000 units in 1974, placing Brazil among the ten
1/   The Manufactured Export Expansion and Industrialization in Brazil -
William G. Tyler, 1974 (book to be published).



- 2 -
largest vehicle manufacturers in the world. Capital goods production,
although still a lagging subsector, has accelerated, with annual increases
exceeding 20% in 1971-73. The relative share of domestic goods in indus-
trial investment now stands at about 75%, compared to less than 70% in the
late 1960s. Imports of machinery and equipment, however, are still sub-
stantial (US$3.2 billion in 1975) accounting for about 27% of Brazil's
overall imports. Including indirect foreign cost, the total foreign ex-
change component of new industrial investment is estimated at 40% of total
cost. During 1967 to 1974, consumer durable and capital goods production
combined increased at an annual average rate of 18%, and now account for
about 28% of total manufacturing production, compared to 19.6% in 1967.
1.04      Since 1967, intermediate goods have constituted the second most
dynamic component of the manufacturing industry with production increas-
ing at an average rate of 12.2% per year. This was in line with the growth
of the manufacturing sector as a whole. The share of intermediate goods
in total manufacturing output has remained at about 42%. Increased produc-
tion of these goods, however, has not been sufficient to cope with the
growth in domestic demand and imports are still significant, reaching
US$4.1 billion in 1975 (excluding petroleum) or 34% of total imports. There
is, therefore, substantial opportunity for import substitution in this sub-
sector of the industry. In the case of petrochemicals, fertilizers and copper,
Brazil is only just now beginning to establish sufficient domestic production
capacity.
1.05      Throughout the last ten years traditional consumer goods industries
(textiles, clothing, and food products) have been the slowest growing indus-
trial subsector. Some dynamism was achieved by this group in very recent years
largely by virtue of its export performance. However, its share in manufactur-
ing output declined from 36% in 1967 to 28% in 1974. Established well before
1950, these industries are still characterized by high tariff protection, lack
of specialization, obsolescence of equipment, poorly organized access to raw
materials, and in general, by inefficiency.
1.06      Since the mid-1960s, Government policy in the industrial sector has
been to stimulate industrial development based on modern technology, that
would ultimately be competitive internationally and would help to alleviate
the balance of payment constraints to the country's economic growth. More
specifically, the Government has sought to achieve the following objectives:
(i) increase of manufactured exports to both diversify and expand total
exports and to increase the scale and efficiency of domestic industry; (ii)
substitution of manufactured imports in both the intermediate and capital
goods categories; (iii) geographical dispersion of industrial establishments
to achieve a more equitable inter-regional distribution of employment oppor-
tunities; and (iv) strengthening of small- and medium-scale industrial enter-
prises.
1.07      Substantial progress has been made in achieving the first objective
(increase of manufactured exports). On the other hand, substitution of manu-
factured imports, although proceeding at a reasonable pace, is still lagging
behind, especially for intermediate goods (semi-finished metals, chemicals,
fertilizers) and capital goods. Also progress in reorganization of the



- 3 -
traditional sector and geographical dispersion of industry has been limited.
Similarly, the objective of strengthening small and medium-scale industries
is only now receiving increased attention.
1.08      During the 1970-74 period, Brazilian manufactured exports in-
creased at an annual rate of 48%, from US$535 million in 1970 to US$2,600
million in 1974. Due to a slackening of demand resulting from a recession
in major consuming countries, the rate of growth of manufactured exports
decelerated to 13% in 1975. Manufactured exports currently account for 34%
of total merchandise exports compared to 20% in 1970. Growth was accompanied
with diversification into such non-traditional exports as chemicals, plastics,
transport equipment and mechanical and metallurgical products. Although manu-
factured exports account for only about 4% of industrial output, they have
nevertheless had a central role in developing economies of scale in some
industries and improving quality and technology. These achievements were
primarily induced by several fiscal incentives, including tax rebates, a
flexible ("crawling peg") exchange rate policy and up to recently favorable
world market conditions. It is also evident that Brazilian industry has be-
come increasingly efficient and competitive. The prospects of further expan-
sion of manufactured exports are reasonably good since in no case do they
constitute more than 3% of total manufactured imports in any overseas market,
nor do they consist significantly of products such as textiles or shoes
currently eliciting protectionist reactions.
1.09      Fiscal incentives for exports have included exemption of domestic
indirect taxation (including drawbacks of tariffs on imported inputs used in
export production), tax credits calculated as a fixed percentage of the value
of goods exported up to a maximum of 30%, exemption of income taxation on
profits from export sales, and concession of working capital credits at sub-
sidized interest rates. On the basis of before-tax ex-factory prices the
incentive system has probably accorded an average preference to Brazilian
exporters on the order of 15 to 20% of production costs including profits.
Exemption of manufactured exports from indirect taxation, however, does
not constitute subsidization of exports since it does not price factors
below their cost to the economy. On the other hand, the tax credit,
income tax exemption and subsidized credit elements of the incentive system
may foster inefficiency in the sector by international standards, owing to
several offsetting factors, such as the existence in Brazil of an unusually
high level of payroll taxation (exemption from which is not included among
the export incentives).
1.10      A major impetus for the development of the manufacturing sector
is additional import substitution in intermediate and capital goods.
Opportunities for such substitution on an economic basis are by no means
exhausted in Brazil (para. 1.02-1.03)   In part, they relate to needed, and
either ongoing or planned, expansion of existing production capacity where
such expansion will not only substitute for imports but have a beneficial
impact on domestic efficiency.  This is the case of the ongoing expansions
of the steel and fertilizer production. In part they relate to new activi-
ties with respect to which Brazil has some comparative advantage. This is



-4-
the case of the planned mining and processing of Brazil's considerable
copper deposits in Bahia and its petrochemical centers being installed
in Sao Paulo, Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul.
1.11      Perhaps the most pressing need for additional import substitution,
however, is in the domestic capital goods industry, expansion of which, al-
though substantial, has not kept pace with domestic equipment demand. Expan-
sion of domestic production of equipment has been somewhat hindered by the
low level of tariff protection afforded to such goods, and by the fact that
foreign credits for the purchase of foreign equipment have normally had
better terms and conditions than domestic credits for local equipment. Un-
like in consumer and intermediate goods, trade liberalization for imported
capital goods has been continuous since 1967. Brazil's "Law of Similars"
permits such imports to be exempt from taxation when there is no national
similar; national similar being defined in terms of competitiveness with the
price, quality and delivery time of the import. In recent years this regula-
tion was administered in a rather liberal fashion. However, in recent months,
the Government has been applying the "Law of Similars" more rigidly. It has
also directed Government-owned enterprises to reduce substantially their
imports of capital goods. These measures are accompanied by a substantial
increase (about US$1.0 billion for 1976, compared to total commitments of
US$500 million in 1974) in the amount of financial resources available to
FINAME, BNDE's capital goods financial subsidiary. The interest rate for
FINAME operations is indexed but the real interest rate was lowered from 7%
to 4% (plus monetary correction).
B. Agriculture
1.   Development and Government Policy
1.12      While the expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74 has
been spearheaded by accelerating industrial production, the agricultural
sector has also performed well in supplying domestic demand for food and
fibers while producing a rising volume of export commodities, with output
growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse climatic conditions in three out of
seven years. The agriculture sector's contribution to NDP has declined from
20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, but its contribution to exports has
remained significant and currently accounts for over 60% of the total value
of exports. Because of the seriousness of the balance of payments constraint,
the strategy of Brazil's Second National Development Plan (1975-79) aims at
a more efficient development of Brazil's agricultural potential. Besides its
favorable impact on balance of payments, the new growth strategy also has
favorable implications for domestic price stabilization and equality of
income distribution.
1.13      Until 1970, growth in agricultural production was attributable
almost entirely to expansion of land under cultivation. Little if any
effort was expended on improvement of productivity in agriculture. Inspite
of having been relatively neglected by policy makers, the agricultural sector
managed to grow at about 4.5% annually during 1950-70. Inflation, price con-
trols, erratic Government intervention in marketing of products, overvalued



- 5 -
exchange rates and export controls, tended to distort prices particularly in
the early 1960s, discouraging production and exports. The movement of agri-
cultural activity into the interior of the country created a need for an
elaborate infrastructure to handle product distribution which remained largely
neglected until the mid-1960s. Overall changes in economic management since
then, helped to eliminate some of these distortions and improve incentives
for farmers. Recent growth has tended to be higher, although there have been
fluctuations due to climatic factors. Brazil has become the world's largest
producer of sugar and its second largest supplier of soybeans, while remain-
ing the world's leading coffee producer. Coffee continues to play a very
important role in the agricultural sector accounting for about 12% of output,
though its share in total exports has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 10%
in 1975. Annual variations in coffee production, largely resulting from frosts,
are generally responsible for year-to-year fluctuations in the growth of the
agriculture sector. The 1975 frosts which caused extensive crop damage in the
states of Sao Paulo, Parana, Minas Gerais and Mato Grosso, will result in an
estimated 55-60% decline in coffee production in 1976 and will reduce overall
growth of the agriculture sector from an estimated 4% in 1975 to between 0-2%
growth in 1976.
1.14      The agricultural policies of the Government have multiple objec-
tives: they are designed to stimulate output to meet the increasing demand
of Brazil's population, to encourage production for export to make a substan-
tial contribution to foreign exchange earnings; and, as instruments for rais-
ing income levels of the rural poor. The Government's price stabilization
objectives depend upon the extent to which agricultural production meets the
increases in domestic demand. More balanced and abundant increments in pro-
duction relative to population increase would alleviate the commodity scar-
cities which have complicated stabilization efforts in recent years. The
agriculture sector in Brazil, besides employing relatively little in way of
imported inputs, has enormous potential as a supplier of primary commodities
to a world increasingly afflicted by food shortages. Agriculture is and will
continue for some time to be a key generator of foreign exchange. The aim of
the Government is to make Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and
exporters of foodstuffs. Finally, with almost 45% of the population engaged
in agricultural activities, a more balanced and equitable development process
can only be achieved with comparatively higher increases in agricultural pro-
duction and productivity than those experienced in recent years. Substantial
increases in per worker productivity in the rural areas will alleviate poverty
where it currently is most heavily concentrated. The Government is thus
giving more attention to the modernization of agricultural production and
marketing and expansion of the frontier of cultivation.
1.15      Brazil has the potential for sustaining relatively high long-term
growth in agriculture and the Plan target of a 40% (7% annually) real increase
in agricultural output for the 1975-79 period appears feasible. To support
these growth objectives, the Government has allocated substantial public
resources to programs to incorporate new areas to agricultural production.
Brazil is one of the few countries in the world that still has available
abundant land on which continued expansion of output can be based, so that



reasonably high growth is possible if accompanied by modest improvements in
agricultural technology. The goal of these programs is to expand agricul-
tural area by 5% annually and to encourage settlement to bring these areas
into production as quickly as possible. A second component of the Government
strategy is to increase productivity and production options through moderni-
zation of agriculture research and increase domestic production of improved
seeds, fertilizers, and substantial expansion in the supply of credit and
complementary technical assistance for the purchase of modern agricultural
inputs. These inputs should bring about a 2% annual increase in productivity
necessary to achieve the overall growth target for the agriculture sector.
Government policies and programs are already providing considerable progress
both in expanding land under cultivation and increasing productivity of
activities for domestic and external markets.
1.16      Following the example of the comprehensive programs created in the
early 1970's for the development of Northeast agriculture (PROTERRA), the
Amazon (PIN), Mato Grosso and Goias (PRODESTE), Valley of the Sao Francisco
River (PROVALE), the Government in 1974, launched a program (POLOCENTRO) to
focus on the technical and infrastructure requirements for initially exploit-
ing 3.7 million hectares of land area in the Campos Cerrados area. This pro-
gram will also finance agricultural research, feeder roads, rural electrifica-
tion and agricultural storage facilities. The Government has also initiated a
program (POLONORDESTE) designed to improve small farmer productivity in the
Northeast through the formulation and execution of integrated rural develop-
ment projects. This constitutes a significant shift in the emphasis of govern-
mental programs which in the past have concentrated on expanding socially
oriented programs in the fields of education, health, nutrition, sanitation
and broadening the application of social security and labor legislation rather
than on production oriented programs aimed at low income groups. These re-
gional programs are designed to bring about a fuller utilization of the
country's land and related resources in order to provide a means for the
alleviation of poverty and underemployment, which are particularly pressing
in the Northeast. While no overnight eradication of rural poverty, which has
been endemic in the Northeast for decades, is likely to be forthcoming from
these programs, responsible efforts lo improve the productivity of Northeast
agriculture together with programs to increase industrial activity in the
region already have resulted in a mo-e rapid growth of per capita income in
the Northeast than in Brazil as a whole, and with the initiation of new pro-
grams this process is expected to continue under the Second Development Plan.
1.17      Considerable emphasis is a:Lso being given to agricultural research
and to the dissemination of research findings through a national extension
network. The Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise (EMBRAPA) and the
Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Enterprise (EMBRATER) have
been strengthened to carry out these objectives. Guaranteed minimum price
support and subsidized credit for financing acquisition of modern inputs are
being employed to encourage farmers take advantage of technological improve-
ments resulting from these research and extension activities. A program of
agricultural infrastructure improvements (Export Corridors Program) is being



implemented in the South and Center regions to facilitate movement of export-
able agricultural surpluses from the interior of Brazil through the major
ports of the region (Vitoria, Santos, Paranagua and Rio Grande).
1.18      Since 1965, with the creation of the National System of Rural
Credit, the Government has made a continuous effort to increase the amount
of loanable funds for agriculture. Agricultural credit is crucial to reso-
lution of the challenges confronting Brazilian agriculture, particularly
expansion of land under cultivation and use of modern inputs. Currently,
about 27% of total Brazilian bank credit is directed into agriculture prin-
cipally by the Bank of Brazil and through Central Bank refinancing programs
using the private commercial banks as agents. Agricultural credit as a per-
cent of Brazil's agricultural domestic product has increased from about 23%
in 1966 to over 50% in 1974. Agricultural credit lines are available for a
multiplicity of purposes including working capital, acquisition of modern
inputs, irrigation, land acquisition by small holders, retention of breeding
stock, pasture improvement, etc. Agricultural credit is extended at subsi-
dized interest rates differentiated in favor of the small holders and of
development in certain regions, particularly the Northeast. The Government
has also established an insurance scheme or fund to cover debts of farmers
when affected by natural disasters. This Insurance Program for Agricultural
and Livestock Activities (PROAGRO) has been extremely useful in reducing
risk of credit operations both to lenders and borrowers. The Government
recently extended this coverage to 80% of the losses in Parana guaranteed
under the PROAGRO program when the State was devastated by the severe frosts
of mid-1975.
1.19      The major difference between the approach of the Second National
Development Plan and efforts heretofore made to improve Brazil's agricul-
tural performance lies in better coordination of the activities of the
many agricultural development agencies. Institutional changes made since
March 1974 suggest that for the first time there is a chance for effective
coordination between agro-policy makers, agricultural research and extension
agencies, agrarian reform and regional development agencies.
2.   Major Crops
1.20      Three agricultural commodities, coffee, soybeans and sugar,
generate 40% of total export earnings and, including unprocessed or semi-
processed agricultural exports, the agricultural sector accounts for more
than 60% of total value of exports. The diversification of agricultural
exports, which over 1967-74 period has been more important than even the
spectacular growth of manufactured exports, is all the more remarkable since,
unlike manufacturers, they benefit little from fiscal incentives.
1.21      Brazil is the largest exporter of coffee in the world although its
share of the world market has declined from 50% in the early 1950s to about
30% at present. With the exception of the 1965-66 harvest, domestic production
has been consistently below requirements for domestic consumption (8 million
bags) and exports (18 million bags), leading to a gradual depletion of stocks.
Due to a large build-up of stocks and the tremendous excess of production
capacity in 1966, the Government initiated a coffee tree eradication program.



However, the movement of coffee planting into the interior of the state of
of Parana by the early 1960s had left substantial portions of Brazil's produc-
tion capacity exposed to frosts. After the frosts of 1969 which reduced
1970 crop to less than 11 million bags, the Government was forced to reverse
its policy and establish price and credit incentives for new tree planting.
The impact of the program was felt in 1974 with production of some 26 million
bags. The severe frosts of 1975, which drastically reduced production capacity
with an estimated production of 9 million bags in 1976, may start a new phase
in Brazilian coffee history, and coffee production may gradually move out of
frost-prone Parana. The danger of movement into the over-production stage of
the coffee cycle still exists, though greater attention on the part of the
Government and the declining comparative advantage of coffee over other crops
tend to forestall this. The increased cost of fertilizer and pesticide, and
the emerging shortage of agricultural labor in the coffee regions discrimi-
nates severely against coffee since no mechanized means of coffee harvesting
has ever been developed. Continuation of a moderate coffee tree planting
program at moderate levels should maintain Brazilian production capacity at
adequate levels, and should permit the Government to recoup the decline in
Brazil's share in world exports that occurred in 1974-75.
1.22      With the recent decline in Cuban production, Brazil is now the
largest producer of sugar in the world. Until 1970 sugar production in-
creased very slowly but, in response to rapidly rising world prices, large
increases took place in 1972 and 1973. Due to unusually bad weather (drought
and frosts in Center-South and heavy, unseasonable rains in the Northeast),
production declined in 1974 and 1975, and despite exhaustion of its sugar
stocks early in 1974, Brazilian sugar export in that year surpassed coffee as
Brazil's principal foreign exchange earner. Most of the increases in cane
production have been due to expansion in harvested areas, with practically no
increases in average yields. Increases in Brazil's exportable sugar surplus
(from 1.1 million tons in 1968 to 2.8 million tons in 1973) have been facili-
tated by a Government program to reform the production and processing of sugar
in the Northeast. This reform has various elements including the creation
of credit lines to merge and re-equip sugar mills and to integrate and reallo-
cate cane production and milling; the adoption of a uniform sugar price
throughout the country; the establishment of a gradually declining subsidy to
be eliminated over a six-year period, to compensate for the currently higher
production costs of the Northeast; and the allocation of PROTERRA funds to
finance the re-employment of cane and mill workers displaced by productivity
improvements. Additional planting of land area in sugar cane and improvements
in productivity are expected to increase sugar production from 6 million tons
at present to about 10 million tons by 1980, out of which about 55% would be
for exports.
1.23      The production of soybeans has increased from less than 1 million
tons in 1968 to almost 8 million tons in 1974, making Brazil the third largest
producer in the world, behind the U.S. and the People's Republic of China.
Soybeans represent the most startling example of the speed at which new products
have been added to the export flow as exports increased from US$40 million in
1967 to US$1,200 million in 1975.  This vast expansion has taken place mainly



- 9 -
in the states of Sao Paulo, Parana, and Rio Grande do Sul and has been ins-
trumental in restructuring southern Brazilian agriculture. Up to now, most
of the expansion has come from double-cropping of wheat areas and cultivation
of natural pastures and thus has not provoked any significant reduction in
the output of alternative crops. In addition, per hectare productivity has
increased and at present Brazilian productivity is only slightly lower than
in the U.S. and Canada, and higher than in Japan. Most of the Southern region
presents favorable conditions and sufficient land available for further expan-
sion of soybean cultivation. The area under soybean cultivation is expected
to increase from 5.2 million hectares in 1974 to 10.5 million hectares by
1980, and production is expected to reach 18 million tons, with exportable
surplus at 11-12 million tons compared to 6 million tons in 1975. In terms
of production capacity, soybeans clearly constitute one of Brazil's principal
opportunities for expansion of agricultural exports.



- 10 -
II. FERTILIZER SECTOR
A.   Fertilizer Industry - General Background
2.01      Brazil's fertilizer industry at present consists of a large number
of small to intermediate-sized producers (paras. 2.18 and 2.20). The industry
has concentrated on importing, mixing, blending and distribution, rather than
establishing large scale, capital iatensive production facilities. This empha-
sis plus the rapid growth in consumption of fertilizer, which attracted rela-
tively small newcomers, has resulted in the present structure of the industry.
Many companies compete at the retaiL level largely with imported materials,
while only a few companies have their own, generally small, production facil-
ities, which have to be protected when world fertilizer prices are low.
Given the large number of companies and their preoccupation with activities
not requiring large investments, the industry has a small capital base and
generates only limited amounts of funds for reinvestment. Therefore, large
scale new facilities will have to be financed with the help of sources out-
side the present industry.
2.02      Most producers are now private and joint (private plus Government
ownership) sector companies. Over the next few years the composition of the
industry is expected to change substantially, with new facilities being con-
siderably larger and being owned primarily by public and joint sector enter-
prises. Although the Government has a policy of encouraging the private
sector to invest and operate freely, the private sector has done little to
date in expanding capacity.
2.03      At present fertilizer sup?lies are largely from imports but the
Government has recently started programs for major expansion of the industry
in view of sharply rising imports and foreign exchange outlays.  A National
Fertilizer Program (NFP) was publisaed in 1974, outlined a 1980 target for
consumption of about 4 million nutrient tons (para 2.10) as compared to a
1974 level of 1.9 million nutrient tons and an expansion program to add suf-
ficient domestic fertilizer production capacity to assure virtual self-
sufficiency by that time. While the level to which capacity expansion should
take place is debatable it is clear that major expansion beyond what realistic-
ally appears to be attainable by 1930, is desirable, provided the financial
resources can be obtained. In particular, it would appear that the private
sector and the phosphate industry may have difficulty in securing sufficient
financing.
2.04      The Government, in 1974, also constituted a National Fertilizer
Commission with representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Industry and
Commerce, Transport and Agriculture and Planning Commission that is charged
primarily with the responsibility of formulating policy and planning to
facilitate growth in the fertilizer sector. However, the Commission has been
concentrating largely on increasing production rather than marketing as-
pects of the sector and only recently was a study of fertilizer raw mate-
rials and product movement initiated. 1/ The Fertilizer Commission would be
1/   The first phase of the report has been completed and is available
in the Project File (in Portuguese).



- 11 -
the logical entity to oversee implementation of the proposed Fertilizer
Market and Marketing Study (Section I below). In addition, the Commission
should undertake a study of the financing requirements and financing sources
of the fertilizer capacity expansion program.
2.05      There are also industrial associations, owned by several fertilizer
companies that are active in fertilizer development - Associacao Nacional Para
Difusao de Adubos (ANDA), 1/ and the Sindicado da Industria de Adubos no Estado
Sao Paulo. 2/ They collect and disseminate information, to members primarily,
on consumption, production, stocks and distribution. However, their informa-
tion is generally incomplete and they appear to do little with regard to pric-
ing (considered confidential information), credit facilities and forecasting.
ANDA also does a considerable amount of promotional work on use of fertilizers
through Government-owned research stations and agronomic field demonstrations.
B.   Fertilizer Use and Agriculture
2.06      Very little specific data is available on fertilizer use, cropping
pattern and fertilizer application by crops and size or type of farms and the
available data is often unreliable and/or contradictory. Two marketing con-
sultants were part of the appraisal mission and their report 3/ is included
in the Project File. Their report shows that there is insufficient informa-
tion and data collection and analysis for fully understanding the fertilizer
sector and for use as an effective planning tool to assess and implement its
growth. This lack of comprehensive information is a principal reason for
proposing the Fertilizer Market and Marketing Study. It is evident that fer-
tilizer use and production will expand greatly and that increased agricultural
production is a viable development goal for Brazil, but much more analysis and
planning is necessary if fertilizer development is to take place efficiently.
2.07      The fertilizer product usage in Brazil is shown in Tables 2-1 and
2-2. Product usage in the "Center" 4/ where the project is to be located,
follows a similar pattern. Most nitrogen production is now relatively
low analysis materials such as ammonium sulfate and ammonium nitrate. Urea,
in 1974, accounted for only 18% of N consumption overall, and 19% in the
"Center". However, there is a trend to higher analysis fertilizers 3/ such
as urea and ammonium phosphate. This trend is expected to continue and all
new projects contemplated by the NFP are to manufacture high analysis pro-
ducts. The high analysis fertilizer will result in savings in transportation,
1/   National Association for the Promotion of Fertilizers.
2/   Syndicate of the Fertilizer Industry in Sao Paulo State.
3/   Fertilizer Market in Brazil, October 1975, Gunther Weinschenk and
Orlando Puppin.
4/   The fertilizer marketing regions of Brazil are defined as:
South: States of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina
Center: Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janierio, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso,
Goias, and Espirito Santo
North:  Acre, Amazonas, Amapa, Para, Rondonia and Roraima
Northeast: Balance of States



storage and use. Agronomically, they are equal or superior to most low ana-
lysis fertilizers and although some market development work is necessary, no
major problems are foreseen in increased acceptance of the newer products.
2.08      The percentage share of fertilizer used for the principal crops is
shown below (1973 data) for each region in Brazil:
Brazil - Share of Fertilizer Use by Principal Crops and Regions
(Percent)
Crop      Northeast & North       Center               South
Sugar Cane         85                  20                     -
Wheat               -                   -                    50
Coffee                                 30                     _
Soybean             -                   8                    40
Cocoa              10                   -                     -
Cotton              -                   7                     -
Other               5                  35                    10
Total        100                100                   100
Sugar, coffee, soybean, and wheat are the major crops using fertilizer, ac-
counting for 60-70% of the total consumption. The above data represent ap-
proximations since there is little systematic collection of data by states
and by crops in actual usage. Similarly, intensity of application is not
known accurately. There are a large number of extension agents working in
Brazil (over 4,000) but they primarily conduct demonstrations and make in-
dividual recommendations, and no attempt is made to collect and analyze con-
sumption data. A comprehensive system of data collection would require a
large effort from the extension agents, retail outlets, and the agricultural
credit banks (Section I below).
2.09      Cultivated land has grown from 28.6 million hectares in 1960 to
about 39 million hectares in 1973 (less than 5% of total land) as shown in
Table 2-3. This expansion is the result of emphasis being given by the Gov-
ernment on opening new land to cultivation. The major shifts in the cropping
pattern during this period have been a 53% and 31% decrease in area for coffee
and cotton, respectively, and a 48%, 61%, and 49% increase for corn, rice, and
black beans respectively. Soybean area increased 21-fold. Brazil has a total
area of 850 million hectares of which about 250 million hectares (30%) are
potential agricultural land. The opening of new lands to agriculture is ex-
pected to continue over at least the next few years and extensive cultivation
as practiced in countries such as the USA and Canada is expected to prevail,
rather than intensive fertilization practiced in countries such as Japan,
the Netherlands, and Egypt.



- 13 -
C.   Fertilizer Consumption
2.10      Growth of fertilizer consumption in Brazil has been rapid but also
erratic, as shown below and in Tables 2-4 and 2-5. The relatively high ratio
of phosphate consumption is agronomically justifiable based on soil character-
istics in Brazil. The NFP (para. 2.03) forecast a large increase in fertili-
zer consumption by 1980 to 4.0 million total nutrient tons, requiring an
annual increase in demand of 16% between 1975 and 1980. For nitrogen alone
the NFP forecast N demand in 1980 at 1.4 million tons (28.5% annual increase
over 1975). The Bank has lowered the demand forecast to a more realistic
level of about 3.0 million nutrient tons which still represents 9.9% annual
growth during 1975/80. The forecast is based on continuation of high phos-
phate application rates and an increased ratio of N as application rates and
crop productivity increase.
Brazil - Apparent Fertilizer Consumption/Demand
(1,000 nutrient tons)
Historial         N          2 5           2         NPK            Ratio
1960              65         128          106        299        1.0/2.0/1.6
1965              70         120          100        290        1.0/1.7/1.4
1970             276         416          307        999        1.0/1.5/1.1
1972             412        875          460       1,747        1.0/2.1/1.1
1975 (estimate) 400         900           600      1,900        1.0/2.25/1.5
Forecast /1
1980             900      1,350          800       3,050        1.0/1.5/0.9
1985(low)      1,350       1,800       1,000       4,150        1.0/1.33/0.7
1985(high)    1,800        2,050        1,200      5,150        1.0/1.20/0.7
Approximate Average Annual Growth, %
1960/65            0           0            0           0
1965/70         31.6        28.2         25.2        28.1             -
1970/75          7.7        16.7         14.3        13.7             -
1975/80         17.5         8.6          5.9         9.9             -
1980/85 (low)   8.6          6.0          4.6         6.4             _
1980/85 (high) 15.1          8.8          8.5       11.0              -
/1   The forecast is partially based on projections by Companhia Riograndense
Adubos, a fertilizer company in Porto Alegre.
2.11      During 1972/75 fertilizer consumption remained virtually stagnant,
as a result of Brazil's substantial dependence on imports, and the sharply
increased prices and lower availability of international supplies during this
period. International prices have subsequently decreased sharply in late 1975,
as a result of increased international supplies and stagnation of fertilizer



- 14 -
consumption in other countries which also depended heavily on high priced
imports. Brazilian retail prices are expected to decrease gradually but the
pick up in demand is likely to be much slower than the NFP anticipates. The
NFP forecast was apparently based on a National Fertilizer Study published
in 1973 (based on data up to 1971) and did not take into consideration the
factors which affected consumption during 1972/75, including the continuing
changing situation regarding cropping patterns, and constraints on fertilizer
use that are beginning to show up such as high prices and transportation
limitations.
2.12      The following table shows the percentage share of fertilizer con-
sumption of the three geographic regions of Brazil (MAP - IBRD 12054):
Brazil - Distribution of Fertilizer Consumption
(Percent)
Year      Northeast & North   Center         South           Total
Historical
1966               10             77           13             100
1970                9             65           26             100
1974                8             62           30             100
Forecast
1980               10             60           30             100
1985               10             60           30             100
The South has become the fastest growing region, which is largely due to the
increase in agricultural production of soybeans, wheat and rice.  However, the
Center will continue to be the largest consuming region, particularly consid-
ering a current program to develop agricultural lands in Minas Gerais, Goias,
and Mato Grosso.
D.   Imports
2.13      Brazil is not well endowed with easily exploitable natural resources
for the production of chemical fertilizers. Natural gas, the ideal raw mate-
rial for nitrogen fertilizers, has been found only in the Northeast and not
in significant quantities. On the other hand, large deposits of low-grade
phosphate rock have recently been found in the center of the country, but only
one deposit is currently being exploited on a large scale. There is also
one substantial deposit of potash in the Northeast, which has not yet been
exploited. Elemental sulphur, required for production of most phosphate
fertilizers has so far not been found in Brazil. This relative lack of raw
materials (at present) has resulted in only a very small portion of Brazil's
nutrients requirements coming from its own natural resources.
2.14      Large amounts of raw, intermediate, and finished materials have,
therefore, been imported. The imports constitute a considerable foreign
exchange expenditure, which after the tremendous fertilizer price increases



- 15 -
of 1974 and 1975 have strained Brazil's balance of payments. In 1973, total
fertilizer imports are estimated to have been about US$169 million, increas-
ing to US$492 million in 1974. With the objective of protecting local fer-
tilizer producers as international prices sharply declined by the end of 1975,
there is a quota system that requires retailers to purchase a given proportion
of local production for each unit of imported fertilizer. The ratio changes
depending on local availability and also price levels. When world prices are
high, as in 1973-1975, imports can be made freely. But under more normal (or
with low) international price conditions, as now prevail, imports are con-
trolled by a quota system that varies with each region. In the Northeast,
there is no quota, but in the Center, retailers must purchase (on a nutrient
basis) 1.1 tons of domestically produced fertilizer for each ton of imports.
The quota is adjusted depending on consumption and local availability, to
substantially clear local production.
2.15      As previously mentioned, imports have historically represented most
of the fertilizer supply and this situation is likely to prevail until the
end of this decade. Between 1960 and 1974 imports have increased from
195,000 tons to 1.5 million nutrient tons as shown in Table 2-6. In 1974
imports accounted for 66% of nitrogen consumption, 56% of phosphate and 100%
of potash. Imports decreased in 1975 due to lower consumption and will pro-
bably still be lower in 1976.
2.16      Imports are seasonal, reflecting the seasonal structure of consump-
tion. About 50% of total imports are imported during the 4 month period
of May-August. About 80% of imports are processed through two ports, Santos
(60%) and Rio Grande (20%), reflecting the concentration of consumption in the
states of Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. These two ports will remain the
principal fertilizer receiving points although use of ports at Paranagua and
Porto Alegre is expected to grow.
E.   Production, Supply and Demand Forecast
2.17      Domestic production of fertilizer has increased from 56,000 nutrient
tons in 1960 to 560,000 nutrient tons in 1974 as shown in Table 2-7.  Produc-
tion has increased an average of about 18% annually during this time but as
percent of consumption grew only from 23% to 28%.
2.18      The present and proposed new suppliers of nitrogen fertilizers are
shown in Tables 2-8 and 2-9 (MAP IBRD 12055). Since there is little nat-
ural gas available, most new capacity will be based on petroleum feedstock
(para 3.13). Import of natural gas from Bolivia has been considered but at
present, transport costs would be prohibitive. Possibly by the late 1980's,
when consumption in Mato Grosso has become significant, a Bolivian-based
project may be feasible. Some imports of ammonia will probably also re-
main feasible, particularly from the US, Mexico, Nigeria and Venezuela which
are likely to have surpluses in the next few years. There are ammonia term-
inals in Santos and Rio Grande that will continue to handle imports (or
trans-shipments from the Northeast).



- 16 -
2.19      There are three firm ammonia projects under consideration (Table
2-9) all by PETROBRAS, including this project in Araucaria (Parana) and
projects in Paulinea (Sao Paulo) 1/ and Aracaju (Sergipe) 1/. Two projects
by the private sector are being considered, one in Minas Gerais and the other
in Rio Grande but neither would appear to have much chance of early imple-
mentation because of financing limitations.
2.20      The present and projected capacity of phosphate plants in Brazil
is shown in Table 2-10 (MAP IBRD 12055).
2.21      The growth of fertilizer supply and demand in Brazil is highly un-
certain, given the past irregular growth of consumption, the yet unknown
effect of new agricultural programs and the uncertainty facing capacity ex-
pansion. The projection for nitrogen demand (para 2.10) and production
(Table 2-9) are shown below:
Brazil - Forecast of Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Supply
(1,000 nutrient tons)
Year                  Demand         Production      Deficit
1975 (estimated)        400              210           190
1980                    900              800           100
1985 (low)            1,350            1,250           100
1985 (high)           1,800            1,500           300
The forecast shows that Brazil will remain a slight net importer of nitrogen
fertilizer which appears to be a reasonable goal. Thus 4 or 5 new nitrogen
plants including this project would be needed by 1985, depending on what
consumption level is achieved.
F.   Market and Marketing for Araucaria Project
2.22      The location of the ammonia-urea plant in Araucaria (near Curitiba)
in the Center has been mainly determined by the refinery which supplies heavy
fuel as feedstock and that Aracauria is favorably located on one of the central
"export corridors" between Paranagua and the major agricultural production
centers in Parana, south-western Sao Paulo and southern Mato Grosso. The
development of fertilizer consumption in the Center, of which the states of
Sao Paulo and Parana have a share of more than 90%, has followed the same
pattern as fertilizer consumption in the rest of Brazil. Assuming growth rates
of consumption of about 10% annually, fertilizer consumption in the Center will
increase from an apparent consumption of 1.3 million tons in 1974 to about 2.2
million tons in 1980 of which 550,000 tons will be nitrogen.
1/   One of the latter two projects has been identified as a proposed second
Bank fertilizer project (to be appraised in mid-1976). The other project
is likely to be financed by IDB in late 1976.



- 17 -
2.23      The forecast supply/demand situation for nitrogen fertilizer in the
Center Region is estimated to be as follows:
Brazil - Supply/Demand for Nitrogen Fertilizer in the Center
(1,000 tons N)
Consumption          Supply         Deficit
1975 (estimated)          240                160              80
1980                      550                500              50
1982                      670                670               0
1985                      850                760              90
The supply forecast assumes the Araucaria project to be in production during
1979 and the Paulinea project during 1980 (Table 2-8).  The Aracaju (Sergipe)
project is scheduled for production in 1981 but its surplus production would
be primarily for the South region. The demand forecast is based on the low
forecast (para 2.10) and assumes that 60% of total demand is for the Center
region. Supply and demand are forecast to be in substantial balance in the
Center Region by 1982 after both Araucaria and Paulinea reach full production
and assuming that the Araucaria project ships a portion of its output to
Santa Catarina in the South. After 1982, the deficit reappears as consump-
tion increases. A third nitrogen fertilizer plant for the Center is not
needed until the mid-1980's. If the high demand forecast is achieved (para
2.10) then the Center Region will remain a net importer throughout this period
and could be supplied either from imports or from the Northeast. Although all
of these assumptions are highly tentative, the forecast indicates that, al-
though the market for the Araucaria project is not a major problem, the pro-
jected close balance in supply and demand emphasizes the need for more atten-
tion to marketing (Section I below).
2.24      The principal marketing system for urea for the Araucaria project
will be through existing channels, such as Ultrafertil and Quimbrasil and
the many small blenders and dealers now operating in the states of Parana
and Sao Paulo. The system will be similar to the typical marketing system
now used in Brazil that is described in Section G below. Private contractors
and dealers are frequently used for hauling and storage and this practice
will continue. A portion will also be marketed in Santa Catarina and in
Mato Grosso, but these will require developing new distribution channels
since little has been done to date in promoting fertilizer use in these
states.
2.25      The project sponsor (para 3.01) plans no direct involvement in
retail marketing, in line with Government policy to reserve distribution and
retail sales to the private sector. It will have a marketing organization to
plan and administer wholesale operations. In addition, sufficient planning by
the Government or appropriate consultants is necessary to assure that an effi-
cient marketing system will be available. Of particular importance are market
development including small farmers and present non-users, credit facilities,
and expansion of the existing distribution and storage systems. In 1974, urea



- 18 -
consumption accounted for only 19% or 63,000 TPY (as N), of the market in the
Center, compared to the 340,00 TPY N that will be available 1/ (including
production from PETROBRAS' second project at Paulinea in Sao Paulo), therefore,
market development is essential. At present, with imports providing much
of the total supply, imports can be timed to match the major marketing season.
The four-month period of May-August, normally represents 50% of total fertili-
zer consumption. As supply switches to domestic production, with uniform pro-
duction throughout the year, storage (and financing) will become more of a
problem particularly with Brazil's high inflation rates. Thus, an analysis
of future storage and credit needs, both at wholesale and retail levels, is
essential.
2.26      Ammonia presents a different kind of marketing problem since all
consumers are industries that process it further into finished products. Am-
monia from the project (345 TPD available) will be sold by tank rail cars or
trucks to several fertilizer companies, ICC in Santa Catarina (120 TPD require-
ment), Quimbrasil in Jacupiranga (60 TPD requirement) and several fertilizer
companies in Porto Alegre (about 100 TPD requirement), plus smaller amounts
to fertilizer mixers and several industrial users in Parana. The Paulinea (in
Sao Paulo state) project of PETROBRAS will also produce ammonia for direct
sale, about 600 TPD, which would be sold to Arafertil and Valefertil in Minas
Gerais and several ammonia consumers in Santos. This would then require the
surplus ammonia from the Northeast to be marketed primarily in Rio Grande.
As with urea, marketing for ammonia cannot be isolated for this project and
the project sponsor must coordinate with other PETROBRAS subsidiaries as to
the most efficient market and marketiag arrangements for ammonia and urea for
the several projects being constructed. At present, only small quantities of
ammonia are sold and transported in Brazil and no faciliies are available for
rail transport, which is the most economical way to ship the quantities in-
volved. Ammonia transport will become significant by the 1980's, since each
of PETROBRAS' ammonia projects provide for excess ammonia (total up to about
1,200 TPD ammonia including 260 TPD from the Aracaju Project) to supply the
several ammonium phosphate projects in the country, most of which are not
adjacent to the ammonia plants. A detailed study of the market and distribu-
tion requirements for the Araucaria aad Paulinea projects has just been ini-
tiated as part of the overall transport study (para 2.04). This study, by the
Fertilizer Commission, will include ammonia, as well as urea transportation.
2.27      Sulphur (58 TPD) will be sold in bulk, by road(there is no direct
rail connection), to Quimbrasil in Jacupiranga (the closest consumer, about
200 km away), which uses 75 TPD sulphur to produce phosphate fertilizer.
Thus, except for physical facilities, no difficulties are anticipated in
marketing of sulphur.
2.28      Both Ultrafertil and Quimbrasil stated that the existing marketing
system would be insufficient for marketing urea at the levels of production
I/   It is assumed that surplus ammonia and urea from production in the North-
east will primarily be marketed in South Brazil after Araucaria and
Paulinea projects are commissioned.



- 19 -
contemplated by 1980 and, although both companies (as well as others) are
willing to expand, they will need carefully delineated policy by the Gov-
ernment on prices, imports, extension services available through government
agencies, and credit availability. The Government is also responsible for
expansion of infrastructure requirements such as rail and road facilities and
these are, at present, generally inadequate and/or inefficient. As indicated
earlier (para 2.06) insufficient information, data and statistics are now
available in Brazil, to analyze the existing system or plan adequately for
future growth. To overcome all of these deficiencies, a "Market and Marketing
Study" will be sponsored by the Government and implemented largely by Brazilian
agencies (para 2.42).
G.   Distribution System
2.29      The structure of the Brazilian marketing and distribution system
is schematically shown in Figure 2-1.  Most of the fertilizer passes through
three levels on the way to final consumption: (i) primary production; (ii)
blenders; and (iii) wholesale and retail sales organization. In addition,
domestic producers, who supply about one-third of consumption, are also
usually involved in importing as well as blending and selling. About 90% of
total consumption is processed through blenders, which are either owned by
manufacturers (25% of total), independent companies (65%), or cooperatives
(10%). Blenders are also involved in importing.
2.30      Sales organizations are either:  (i) dependent organizations (of
the manufacturers); (ii) commission agents; (iii) independent dealers; and
(iv) cooperatives. Dependent organizations are extensions of the manufac-
turer's marketing organization and employees work on a fixed salary. Com-
mission agents depend on the blending operation or the domestic manufacturers
by an agreement which obliges them to sell only fertilizer products of the
corresponding companies. The local agents who sell on a commission basis can
be exclusive fertilizer dealers or general rural salesmen. Companies which
sell by commissioners employ 1 regional sales manager and 4-6 inspectors for
every 50-150 local agents. The regional sales manager is a salaried employee
of the company, the inspectors may or may not receive fixed salaries. Local
agents receive a commission of about 4% from the sales as an average ranging
from 3 to 10%. The agent helps the farmer in arranging bank credits and
transportation.
2.31      Independent dealers have lost importance and this trend is conti-
nuing. At present they are primarily used in new areas in which the amount
of fertilizer sold at the introductory phase does not pay a company-owned
selling system. Similarly, cooperatives are not a major sales outlet, and
are not expected to grow significantly in the near future. Sales on commis-
sion is still the most frequently used marketing channel. However the exact
distribution on the different market channels is not known, and the percentage
numbers given in Figure 2-1 are only rough estimates.
2.32      The distribution of storage between manufacturers, blenders and
local retailers is not accurately known. Blenders try to avoid storage as



- 20 -
far as possible because of the lack of working capital. Considering the cost
of storage it is usually more profitable for them to adjust their blending
operation to the seasonal structure of consumption by increasing the daily
working time from 8 to 24 hours, than to store large quantities over 9 months
of the year. Farmers participate onlv marginally in storage also due prima-
rily to lack of working capital and insufficient discount and credit facili-
ties. Thus, most of storage is done by the manufacturers, who usually rent
storage in the peak season. The problem of storage will become more serious
with increasing degree of local production, since adjustment by imports will
lose its present importance.
2.33      Transportation is one of the most important bottlenecks for the in-
crease of fertilizer consumption specially in the regions which will become
crucial for the further increase of production. Although, little is known on
the structure of transportation and on transportation costs, the transport
study now underway (para 2.04) should provide sufficient data to permit more
rational planning in the future. In principle, highway transportation, rail-
way transportation and coastal shipping compete against each other. Transport
by ship along the coast or the great rivers has so far gained only marginal
importance for domestic transportation. Highway transportation has become
more and more important in recent years specially if farmers can use "return
freight". Only in this case is highway transport cheaper than railway trans-
portation but it is superior nevertheless at least for the production of final
goods because of its greater flexibility. It is estimated that railway trans-
portation is most important for the transport of raw material or single nu-
trient fertilizer from the ports to blenders and manufacturers, accounting
for 80% of the total transport on this level or even more. Railway transpor-
tation plays a major role for the transport from manufacturers to blenders,
while road transportation is more important for the transport from blenders
to dealers and farmers.
2.34      Transportation costs vary widely depending on the distance and the
region, the quality of the road and on the possibility to use the economics
of "return freight". In 1974, typical costs were Cr$0.18 - 0.26 per ton-km
for truck transportation and Cr$0.13 - 0.18 per ton-km for railway transpor-
tation. Transportation costs are about 5 to 10% of the factory price at
distances between 500 and 1000 km from the factories under normal road
conditions.



Figure 2-1
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZIa PROJECT                                      Page 21
STRUCTURE OF THE BRAZILIAN FERTIIIZIR
MAR ETING SYSTEM
imtports   (per cent of total consumption             \
?           65 nitrogen, 55 phospilate, 1P0 pota0h
45
donestic maruf;:.tinrcs                 55
<   80     blending operations
20
100                  90 . per cont of total consumiplion
25                5           10
owned by                       independent                  cooperatives
manufactures                   companies
5_
sales organizations
1 O  -  -20    55  ==-= 5-- 20
dependent                       dependent                    independent         cooperatives
organizations                     on                         dealers
with enployees                  coriission
with partly                      basis
fixed salaries
per cen t                                            95      per cent of total consumption
D  consumption
largo farms                                  other farms
Source: National Fertilizer Study



- 22 -
H.   Fertilizer Prices and Credit
2.35      The price of fertilizer (and agricultural products) and availabi-
lity and cost of credit are closely linked in Brazil considering the high
rate of inflation and low liquidity of most farmers. The Government has
instituted programs to delineate maximum fertilizer prices and minimum prices
for agricultural crops and a system of subsidies and credit, all designed to
promote agricultural production and fertilizer use and, in part, to protect
the farmer from wide price fluctuation. The maximum fertilizer price system
has only recently been introduced so its effect is not yet known.  But it is
designed to limit profits of producers and importers to a reasonable level
and stabilize prices. At present, prices for all materials are not on an
equivalent level. This inconsistency has been recognized and steps are being
taken to establish uniform prices. The proposed maximum prices (FOB producers)
for mixtures are shown below:
Brazil - Maximum Fertilizer Prices
Nutrient               Cr $/kg              US$/ton
N                      7.6                  890
P205                   6.8                   800
K20                    2.8                   329
Presumably these prices will later be applied to single nutrient fertilizer
also.
2.36      Prices paid by farmers in Sao Paulo for single nutrient
fertilizers are shown below:
Brazil - Fertilizer Prices to Farmers in Sao Paulo
(Current FOB Prices)
Year                        Price  (Cr $/t)
Potassium             Single                 Ammonium
Chloride         Superphosphate              Sulphate
1968         210                  160                     210
1969         240                  200                     240
1970         280                  210                     240
1971         390                  230                     290
1972         440                  330                     380
1973         560                  410                     540
1974       1,120                1,130                   1,700
Prices in other states followed this same general trend. Overall,
price increases for multi-nutrient fertilizers also follow the same
trend.



- 23 -
2.37      The Government tries to guarantee a minimum profitability of agri-
cultural production by a system of minimum prices. The system was introduced
as early as 1945 and has been extended from 6 major plant products (rice,
beans, corn, peanuts, sunflower and soybeans) to almost all agricultural
products. The Government has to announce prices 60 days before planting.
The guarantee is made good by purchasing and financing the production for
a period of 180-216 days at 100% of the minimum price. The points at which
the Government is prepared to buy the agricultural products have been gra-
dually extended from the export ports and the large consumer centers to many
intermediate points in the country thus forming homogenous price zones. In-
spite of these improvements it is hard to prove the efficiency of the program.
The maximum prices have been lower than the actual market prices in most of
the 30 years the program has been in effect and the intervention purchases
were extended to negligible quantities in most years.
2.38      The purchasing power of agricultural products (in relation to ferti-
lizer) increased almost continuously from 1968 to 1973 for most products. In
1974, however, it fell drastically due to the increase in fertilizer prices as
follows:
Brazil - Purchasing Power of Agricultural Crops
(kg Fertilizer/100 kg of Crop) -
Year           Rice        Corn         Coffee        Soybeans
1968           166         46            417             128
1972           185          64           833             139
1973           166          83           833             185
1974            98          37           417              79
1975 /2 /3    238           79           555             139
1975 /4        185          64           417             111
/1   weighted average price according to apparent average NPK
consumption.
/2   average prices Jan./June.
/3   considering 40% subsidy on fertilizer prices.
/4   considering 40% subsidy on fertilizer prices and 15%
interest rate on the current price.
2.39      Concerned about the possible adverse effect of the increase of fer-
tilizer prices on fertilizer consumption and agricultural production, the
Government introduced a 40% subsidy towards the purchase of fertilizer in
early 1975. At the same time it charged 15% interest on fertilizer credits
which had been interest free so far. This measure brought the purchasing
power of agricultural products about back to the level of 1968. However, for
some important products the purchasing power is still considerably below the
level of 1972, when fertilizer consumption reached a peak level. Under the
present regulations, the farmer has to repay after 6-8 months about Cr$ 750
for every Cr$1,000 he spends via credit on the purchase of fertilizer compared
to about Cr$1200-1300 he would have to repay without using Government facili-
ties.



- 24 -
2.40      The Government has been well aware of the importance of working
capital and liquidity for the modernization of agriculture; however, the
effectiveness of the programs instituted is somewhat debatable given the
relatively low overall efficiency of agricultural production and the lack
of sufficient statistical data and analysis. In 1965, the Government
created the National Rural Credit System (SNCR) which involved a complete
revolution in Brazil's rural credit system. SNCR is made up of the Central
Bank (which has a supervisory role in the system) and the Bank of Brazil,
Bank of Amazonia, Bank of the Northeast, and the National Credit Cooperative
Bank.  The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA),
the State official banks, the National Savings bank, the private banks, and
the rural credit cooperatives are linked informally to the SNCR.  To coor-
dinate, guide and control the behavior of the different components of the
credit system, a special department was established in the Central Bank.
2.41      The subsidy for the modernization of agriculture, specially the
consumption of fertilizer, began with the foundation of FUNFERTIL which
paid the total interest on loans used for buying fertilizer. In 1964 it
was substituted by FUNDAG which provided credit at 7% for buying modern
inputs. In 1975 the interest rate on credits for fertilizer was raised to
15% (not indexed to monetary correction) and a subsidy of 40% was granted
for the purchase of fertilizer. In addition rural credit plays a major role
in special development programs like PROTERRA in the north and PORDOESTE in
the west. The CERRADO program to be started in 1976 will be of special im-
portance for the development of fertilizer consumption in the western part
of the Center. Credit expanded from Cr$938 million in 1971 to Cr$6.8 billion
in 1974 as shown below.
Brazil - Distribution of Fertilizer Credits by Region
(1,000 of current Cr$)
1971        1972          1973         1974
Northeast/North      61,802       146,428       231,857      518,604
Center              570,961       865,937    1,549,217   4,158,037
South               305,541       550,954       763,819   2,117,483
Total         938,304    1,563,319    2,544,893   6,794,124
Source:   Banco Central do Brasil - Fundag Financiamentos
Goncedidos - 1971-74.
I.   Proposed Fertilizer Market and Marketing Study
2.42      In connection with this project, the Government has agreed to
undertake a study of the market and marketing aspects of the fertilizer
sector. Under the National Fertilizer Program, the Government has taken
measures to increase domestic production of fertilizers both to substitute for
current imports and to satisfy expected increases in domestic consumption over



- 25 -
the next 5 to 10 years. The Government intends for the private sector to
handle the marketing and distribution of fertilizers, as has been largely the
case in the past. It is still crucial, however, that the Government help
identify potential bottlenecks in marketing and distribution, to ensure that
Government policies and programs complement to the fullest degree, and faci-
litate the rapid expansion of fertilizer use. The Government has agreed to
exchange views with the Bank regarding the expansion and development of the
fertilizer sector including fertilizer import and pricing policy, and the
results and recommendations of the proposed study.
2.43      The proposed study would have the following major objectives:
(i) Develop a methodology for and estimate fertilizer demand and
supply for a 10-year period and propose institutional arrange-
ments for annual updates;
(ii) Make recommendations as to the optimal location of future
fertilizer plants considering regional increases in consumption
and likely shifts in fertilizer distribution patterns;
(iii) Identify specific constraints that may prevent the more effi-
cient and broader use of fertilizers;
(iv) Define improvements and/or expansion of storage, transportation
and mixing/blending facilities that are required to support the
expected increases in fertilizer production/consumption; and
(v)  Recommend possible new Government policies (including credit
and pricing) and programs that would be needed to ensure
that the required marketing/distribution investments are under-
taken either by the private or public sectors, and encourage
broader and more efficient fertilizer use.



BRtAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZEj, IROJECT
STRUCTURE OF_FERTILIZE CONSUTIOPTION
\ 1 ewu t of nutin
Year                                                                                      Year
product                                                                                               Prod1970  cg7t 1972  1973  1574  Mrw  1970  1971  1972    1973       1974 c
NITROOEN                                                                                    PhSPKATE
Ammonium Sulphate                     144      108       139      113       137             Sirgle Sucerohosphate             138        164       183        206       2s8
National                             1        2         S        3        5                 National                      133        160        177       203        227
Imported                           143      106      134       110      132                 Imported                         5         4         16          3        31
Urea                                   60        44       98        s9       83             Triple Sul-rphosphatm              91        129       280        279        3^9
National                            -         I        "7       24       24                 National                        -         12         13         53        53
Imported                            60       43       81        45       59                 Imported                       91        17         211        2S        256
Ammonium Nitrate                         5       30       23        44       64             Arrionium Phosphetes              137        185       285        218        327
National                             5       30        23       es4      S4           .     National                        2Z        52         6S         53       137
Imported                                          -        -         -                      Imported                       114       133        23D       165        190
Ni trocnaIlk                             5       16       17        23       26             Other                                9        11         44        21         48
National                             5       16        17       23        26                National                         5          7        10         12         15
Imported                                          -        -             -                  Imported                         4          4        34          9        33
Amnonium Phosphate                      54       72      115        83      119                            Total              375        489        793       724        942
National                             9       20        26       21        48                               National        161       231        2S2        321       432
Imported                            45       52        90       64       71                                Imported        214       2s8        531        403        5$O
Other                                    8        8         6       12       22          POTASM
National                                                        -         -              All imported                      307        351       447        529        633
Imported                             8         8        6       12        22
Total             278       276      399      3A5       451          TOTAL                                5S      1 118     1 639      1 599      2 026
National        20       69        88      1 5       1E7              et4cnol                          iS                   A 0        4 5
Imported       256      209       311      231      254              :-Tcrted                          777        6l8     I 21A      1 183     1  2
(1) Estimmtod by Coneultia.
Source:  (1970/1973)  Sindicato des ;rduqtrias de Adubos e Colas do Estado                                                                                                            e  A
ds Sic Paulo ;SlACESP)                                                                                                                                     oq C
Industrial Projects Department
January 1976



Table 2-2
Page 27
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION
(Percent)
Year
Product
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974
N TTfU) GEN
Ammonium Sulphiate         52         38         35         33         31
Urea                       22         16         25        20         18
Ammonium Nitrate            2         11          6         13         14
Nitrochalk                  2          6          4          7          6
Ammonium Phosphate         19         26         29         24         26
Other                       3          3          1          3          5
100       100        100        100        100
PrOSPHliATE
Single Superphosphate    37           34         23        28         27
Triple SupEirphosphate    24          26         35         39        33
Anmornium Phosphates       37         38         36         30         35
Other                       2          2          6          3          5
100       100        100        100        100
POTASt 
Muriate of Potash          96         98         98         95        9G
Potassium Sulphate          3          1          1          2          2
Other                       1          1          1          3          2
100       100        100        100        100
ir.dustrial Projects Department
January 1976



BRi&ZTL  - AR2,"CAWI!A  PL.TILIZER PROJECT
EVOLUTIONT OF CULTIVATED LAND
Yeear
Culture
1960      1981      1952      1963       1964      1S65      1S86       1957      1985      1969       1970      1971       1972 '11       1973
S3rana                             185       194        209       231       228        239       250       256        2M8       273       277        280          2'3          316
Black Bean                       2 560    2 8a1      2 716    2 992    3 131        3 272    3 325       3 851    3 653    3 653        2 4S5      3 743        3 779       3 81S
Cacao                              471        474       465       470       487        482       456       473        433       438        444       442          429          415
Cassava                          1 342    1 381       1 476    t 61B    1 716    1 750    1 780    1 914    1 998    2 029    2 025               2 C41        2 C73        2 104
Coffee                           4 420    4 692    4 420    4 C32    3 845    3 511            3 057    2 792    2 663    2 571         2 403      2 564        2 332        2 CSO
Corn                             6 661    6 886       7 348    7 958    a 106    7 771    8 703    9 274    9 584    9 654              9 8se   1C 709          C ZCT        9 9CS
Cotton                           2 930    3 234    3 457    3 554    3 7G5    4 004    3 898    3 720    3 902    4 195                 4 299    4 480          3 2-5        2 032
Orange                             112        119       126       139        144       150       165        167       173       183        7r7       216          333          449
Peanut                             291        436       476       423        430       541       644        694       6C6       613        670       672          599          SCE
Potato                             199        191       196       200        209       202       199        217       227       221        214       207          'S3          189
Rice                             2 966    3 174    3 350    3 722    4 182    4 619    4 005    4 291    4 459    4 621                  4 979     5 042        4 919        4 795
Soy Bean                           171        241       314       340        360       432       491        612       722       9C6      1 319     1 5S9        2 EC2        3 615
Sugar Ccnb                       1 340    1 357    1 467    * 509    1 519    1 705    1 636    1 681               1 687     1 672      1 725t   1 692         1 e2S        1 95
Tobacco                            213        228       232       250        251       274       265        261       276        255       245      -              117         234
Wheat                            1 414    1 022         743       793        734       767        717       831       9,0     1 407      1 695     2 261        2 050        1 839
Other                            3 286    3 410    3 510    3 575    3 754    3 994    3 847    4 oC8    4 112    4 252    4 42S    4 672                       4 563        4 721
Total                           28 561   29 630   30 505   31 946    32 992  34 714   33 438   34 842   35 743   36 cSe   3e 4ES   42 610                      Zs 822       38 V7S
(12 Estimated by Consultia.
Source:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil -  BGE 
Industrial  Projects Department
January 1976



Table 2-L
Page 29
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZFR. PROVECT
PFARENT FEItTILIZER CONSUMIPTION IN BRAZIL
(1,000 nutrient tons)
Year       N        P225        422       Total      % Increase      N  : P : K
1959       45       119          57        221             -         1.0:2.5:1.2
1960       65       128         106        299           35          1.0:2.0:1.6
1961       57       118          73        247          -17          1.0:2.1:1.3
1962       51       118          68        237          - 4          1.0:2.3:1.3
1963       65       157          92        314           32          1.0:2.4:1.4
1964       51       134          70        255          -18          1.0:2.6:1.4
1965       70       120         100        290           13          1.0:1.7:1.4
1966       71       117          93        281          - 3          1.0:1.7:1.3
1967      1o6       205         137        448           59          1.0:1.9:1.3
1968      144       273         184        602           35          1.0:1.9:1.3
1969      164       266         200        630            4          1.0:1.6:1.2
1970      276       416         307        999           59          1.0:1.5:1.1
1971      278       536         351      1,165           13          1.0:1.9:1.3
1972      412       875         460      1,747           55          1.0:2.1:1.1
1973      355       790         534      1,679          - 4          1.0:2.2:1.5
197U ;/   373     1,003         600      1,977           18          1.0:2.7:1.6
1/ Estimated by ANDA
Source: Sindicado da Industria de Adubo8 No Estado Sao Paulo
Industrial Projects Department
May 1975



Table 2-5
Page 30
APPARFWN REGIONAL FIRTTIIIR CczsuKPTIa IN sIIZIL
(1,000 nutrient. tons)
North/Northeast Region
Year       N           225     -          i Total     % Chance
1966       7.6        1,1.3       9.2       28.1          -
1967      10.7         12.8      17.0       40-5          44
1968      12.14        13.7      12.3       38.4          -5
1969      16.4        17.4       18.6      52.2           36
1970      28.1         31.6      29.4       89.1          70
1971      26.0        35.1       33.9       95.0           7
1972      42.7        63.4       45.4      151.5          59
1973      36.7        55.1       48.4      140.2          -6
Central Region
1966      56.3        86.1       73.0     215.4           -
1967      82.5       137.2      102.3     322.0           50
1968     110.9       190.3      138.7-   439.9            36
1969     120.8        167.4     138.5     426.7           -3
1970     202.4       240.2    -204.6      647.2           52
1971     190.8       284.3      234.0      709.1           10
1972     259.o       405.3      283.9     948.2           34
1973     250.3       445.9      366.4   1.062.6           12
Southern Region
1966       7.2         19.2      11.1       37.5          -
1967      13.2        54.6       17.6       85.4         127
1968     .21.0         69.o      33.3      123.3           45
1969      27.2         80.8      43.1      151.1          23
1970      45.5        1)4.0      72.7      262.2           74
1971      6i.5       216.4       83.0      360.9           37
1972     109.9       406.3      130.7      646.9           79
1973      68.3       289.3      118.7      476.3          -36
Sourece:  Sindicado da Industria de Adubos no Estado Sao Paulo
Industrial Projects Departments
May 1975



Table 2-6
Page 31
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FFRTILIZER PROJECT
FETILIZER IMPORTS
(1,000 t of nutrient)
N                            P205 GJPK
1960                   51                            32                           189
1961                   43                            30                           1416
1962                   38                            26                            131
1963                   52                            38                           182
1964                   44                            27                           141
1965                   56                            26                           182
1966                   65                            28                           186
1967                   98                            74                           30.9
1968                  135                           105                            424
1969                  158                           118                           476
1970                  256                           215                           778
1971                  209                           256                            816
1972                  311                           516                         1 2l5
1973                  232                           403                         1 164
1974                  299                           528                         1460
Source: Sindicado das Industrias de Adubos e Colas do Estado de Sao Paulo (SIACESP)
Industrial Projects Department
January 19Q76



BRAZIL - ARAJCARIA FERTILIZErt PPOJECT
1ESTIC PRODUCTION OF FERTILIZERS
NITROGEN                         PHOSPHATE (1)                        TOTAL  CNlP+K)
Yeer
1,000 t        Percentof           1,000 t        Por:-t of            1,0CU t        P2-_et Or
Consumption                        Consunrtion                         Consurptron (2]
1960                        14             21                  42              55                  56             23
1351                        14             24                  45              59                  59             2 
1962                        13             26                  SI              Ea                  85              33
19S3                        13             20                  67              64                  80             31
1964                         7             14              - 0                 73                  77              36
1965                        14             20                  61              71                  75              29
1968                         6              9                  64              SS                  70              23
1967                         8              a                  92              56                 100              25
1968                         9              S                 109              51                 118              22
1939                         6              4                 113              50                 124              21
1970                        20               7                160              43                 180              19
1971                        69             25                 233              47                 302              27
1972                        88             22                 278              34                 3EQ              22
1973                       114             33                 320              44                 434              27
1974                       152             3F4                414              45 ;               S66              28
Source: Sindicedo das Industrias de Adubos e Colas do Estado de Sao Paulo CSIACESP)
(1)  Only  soluble phcsphates
(2)  Including K20 fall Imported)                                                                                     'a
Industrial Projects Department
January 1976



Table 2-8
Page 33
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
NINOGEN FERTILIZER PRODUCTION CAPACITY BY REGION
(1,000 t N)
Year )
Area/Producer  Stat "l            Product        _
CoCd                             1974  1075  197f  191i  Vil
NORTH/MNI JWtHEAST                                 43    43    61   1 h4   1 T
Potrofertil    BA        Urea                   38    33    30   101   1b1
Paskin          BA       Armmonium Sulphate      5      5    10    10    1n
Nitrocarbono   BA        Ammonium Sulphate    -       -      13    13    13
Agrof6rtil      DA       Ammonium PhosphatR   -        -     -       6    13
CENTER                                            113   127   171   171
CSN             RJ       Anmonium Sulphatu       2      2     2      2     7
PE)trof6rtil    SP       Nitrochalk             22    22    22    22    ,2
Ultriif rti1    SP       &iwonitui Nitrate      60    60    60    60i   t,ni
Ammonium Phosphate   29    29    29    29    21
Quinm;rasil     SP       Aminorijum Phosphate   14    14    14    14    1'/
Copabrils       SP       Ammonium Phosphate   -        -     18    18    lfh
Araf6rtil       MG       Arrnmonium Phosphato   -      -     26    26    2t
Valof6rtil      MG       Ammonium Phosphate   -       -      -      -     34
SOUTH                                              31    60    60    84    84
FertJsul        RS       Complex Fertilizer(3) 31    31    31    31    31
Luclisingor     RS       Ammonium Phosptihite   -       5     5      5      5
Comp4e6x Fertilizer   -      24    24    24    24
ICC             SC       Afmmonium Phosphate   -      -      -      24    24
BRAZIL                                            187   230   292   439   473
(1)  BA   Bahia, RJ n Rio do Janeiro, SP a Sao Paulo. MG   Minas Gerais,
RS * Rio Grande do Sul, SC a Santa Catarina
(23 1976/77/78 under construction
(3)  With intermediate production of ammonium phosphates.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1976



BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
PROJECTED AMMONIA PRODUCTION CAPACITY
PRODTJCER  (State)              Capacity         Statusa/                     Production (TPY N)
________                         TPY N                             1975         1980        1982       1985 "
Exitinal
Petroquisa   (Sao Paulo)      26,500          on-stream
Ultrafertil  (Sao Paulo)    123,000           on-stream
Rhodia        (Minas Gerais)  24t,800         on-stream
Petrofertil I(Bahia)          5,700           on-stream
Sub Total                     229,000                            210,000     210,000      210,000   210,000
Proposed/Under ConstructionL/
Petrofertil II (Bahia)       249,000            1977                0        225,000     225,000   225,000
Araucaria       (Parana)      328,000           1979                0        295,000      295,000   295,000
Paulinea        (Sao Paulo)  328,000            1980                0         70,000     295,000   295,000
Aracaju         (Sergipe)    274,000            1981                0           0         2b5,000   245,000
Sub Total                  1,179,000                                0        590,000   1,o6o,ooo 1,060,000
Total                      1,bo8,ooo                             210,000     800,000   1,270,000 1,270,000
1/  Existing plants assumed to operate at 90% capacity utilization                                                   CD
I/ Dates are year of initial operation M
/ Omits other plants which could be operating by 1985
v~/ Proposed plants assume to operate at 90% capacity utilization by second year of operation
Industrial Projects Department
January, 1976



Table 2-10
Page 35
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER PRODUCTION CAPACITY
(1,000 t P205)
State                                            Year
Area/Producer      Code (1)          Product              1974      1975      1976
NORTH/NORTHEAST                                               7        7        18
Profertil         PE        SSP                           7         7         7
Profertil         AL        SSP                           -        11        11
CENTER                                                     430       458       759
Ultrafertil       SP        Ammonium Phosphate           74        74        74
Quimbrasil        SP        Ammonium Phosphate           70        70        70
Superphosphates              40       40        40
Copebras          SP        Ammonium Phosphates          -         -         63
Superphosphates              65       93        93
Arafertil         MG        Ammonium Phosphate           -         -        125
Superphosphates             -         -         53
Ferticap          SP        Superphosphates              16        16        16
Manah             SP        Superphosphates              -         -         60
ideg            SP         Superphosphates              24        24       24
Fertibase         SP        Superphosphates               72       72        7?
Detex             SP        SSP                            3        3         3
Elekeiroz         SP        SSP                          17        17        17
Fosfanil          SP        SSP                           30       30        30
Mitsui            MG        Thermal Phosphate            18        18        18
Fertimetal        MG        Thermal Phosphate              1        1         1
SOIUTH                                                      110      229       229
CRA               RS        Superphosphates               20       20        20
Icisa             RS        SSP                            9        9         9
Luchsinger        RS         SSP                           -       h6        46
Ammonium Phosphate            -       14        1
Complex Fertilizer            -       59        59
Fertisul          RS         Complex Fertilizer           81       81        81
-3RAZTL, Total Capacity                                    547       694    1,006
(1)  BA = Bahia,  RJ = Rio de Janeiro,  SP = Sao Paulo,  MG = Minas Gorais,
RS = Rio Grande do Sul,  SC = Santa Catarina,  PE   Pernaunbuco, AL = Alageas.
Industrial Projects Department
January 1976



- 36 -
III. PROJECT SPONSOR
A.   BRASFERTIL
3.01      The project is to be built, owned and operated by Petrobras Ferti-
lizantes, S.A. (BRASFERTIL) who will be the project sponsor. BRASFERTIL will
also own and operate the two other ammonia/urea projects at Paulinea and at
Aracaju to be implemented by PETROBRAS shortly. PETROBRAS will own 100% of
the shares and will provide technical and management staff to build and
operate the facilities. PETROBRAS will initially provide all equity but when
commercial operation reaches profitable levels, PETROBRAS plans to offer
shares for sale, particularly to the private sector fertilizer companies.
3.02      Its Board of Directors would be primarily from PETROBRAS management,
plus possibly representatives from BNDE and/or the Government.
3.03      Initial authorized capitalization is about US$133 (Cr$ 1,200) mil-
lion with US$112 (Cr$ 951) million to be paid in, representing PETROBRAS's
initial equity contribution, over the construction period (Chapter V contains
further details regarding financing). PETROBRAS and the Government would
guarantee the financing for the project, including any additional funds needed
to complete the project (para 6.11).
B.   PETROBRAS
1.   Financial Data
3.04      The parent company, Petroleo Brasileiro  S.A. (PETROBRAS), is a
government-owned oil monopoly 1/ in Brazil established in 1953. It owns
eight existing refineries, has a large retail system and is responsible for
petroleum exploration, all imports and petroleum and gas production. The
corporate organization of PETROBRAS is shown in Chart 3-1.
3.05      PETROBRAS' financial statements, and the consolidated statements
for PETROBRAS and its subsidiaries are shown in Table 3-1. The consolidated
statement is summarized below:
1/   There are two small refineries not owned by PETROBRAS.  However, they
cannot expand and must buy crude from PETROBRAS. There are some private
oil distributors/retailers but they buy refined products from PETROBRAS
and retail prices are controlled '3y the Government.



- 37 -
Brazil - PETROBRAS & Subsidiaries - Consolidated Statements
(In US$ million)
For the Year Ending Dec. 31                      1973         1974         1975
Revenues (net of sales taxes)                   2,303        4,594        6,395
Cost of Sales                                   1,576        3,236        4,564
Other Charges                                     350          686          968
Monetary Correctia o-  Wozkiag Capital             49          132          158
Provision for Income Tax                           26           32           26
Net Income                             302          508          679
Current Assets                                  1,474        2,642        3,810
Long-Term Investment & Receivables                 51           47           43
Fixed Assets (net)                              2,001        2,187        3,272
Other Assets (net)                                 77          116           99
Current Liabilities                               776        1,270        2,345
Long-Term Debt                                    534        1,022        1,208
Minority Capital in Subsidiaries                   82           34           81
Equity                                          2,211        2,666        3,590
Total Assets or Liabilities          3,603        4,992        7,224
Long-Term Debt-Equity Ratio                     19:81        27:73        25:75
Current Ratio                                     1.9          2.1          1.6
Net Income as % of Equity                        13.2         18.8         18.9
Exchange Rate Cr$/US$1.00                         6.22         7.44         8.50
3.06      PETROBRAS' consolidated investment program was US$0.6 billion
in 1973 but increased sharply to US$0.9 billion and about US$1.4 billion
during 1974 and 1975, respectively. During 1976 through 1978 investment is
expected to level off at around US$1.8 billion annually. Historically (1972-
1975) internal funds provided 54% of the total fund sources with new capital
including special Government contributions adding 15% and new debt 31%. More
than one-half of the funds, about 54%, were utilized for capital investments
with the balance used for debt service, additional working capital and divi-
dend payments. Assuming that the new capital and new loans were used exclu-
sively to finance capital investments, the investment program would have been
financed with 15% internal funds, 28% new capital and 57% debt which is a
sound capitalization structure. Substantially the same pattern of fund sources
and uses are projected for the next three years.
3.07      PETROBRAS has typically been using foreign commercial bank lines
of credit, and tied export or buyer's credits, to finance imported goods.
These credits, arranged well in advance of disbursement, are not initially
allocated to a specific project. While these buyer's credits are always
tied, PETROBRAS, by using them on an unallocated basis coupled with negotia-
tions, apparently has not suffered any particular price disadvantage vis-a-vis
ICB.



- 38 -
3.08      PETROBRAS has historically borrowed from financial institutions
without a Government or third party guarantee. This practice will continue
for PETROBRAS itself, but in the case of the proposed fertilizer project
the subsidiary will be the project sponsor and will have a Government guar-
antee on the proposed World Bank loan. With the balance of payment and
foreign exchange reserve position of Brazil undergoing a difficult phase, the
Government is encouraging major Brazilian companies to seek long-term funds
from foreign sources. Such arrangements, however, require some six to twelve
months to complete and for the proposed project, medium-term foreign loans
from commercial banks are more likely to be used although long-term loan
sources are also being explored.
2.   Refinery Program and Feedstock Availability
3.09      Brazil currently imports about 80% of its 0.9 million barrels per
day (BPD) petroleum consumption. Large exploration programs are underway,
primarily in the Amazon, Northeast and offshore regions. Apparently no large
new discoveries have yet been found and the effect of this program on future
reserves is not known at present. PETROBRAS has eight refineries in operation
with a total capacity of about 1 million BPD of crude. The location and
capacity of each refinery is given in Table 3-2. Two new refineries are under
construction, one at Araucaria (Parana), the other at San Jose dos Campos
(Sao Paulo) and in addition, PETROBRAS has other smaller refinery expansion
programs underway. All of these expansions are being built with PETROBRAS as
general contractor. The new refineries and the expansions are expected to be
operational by 1979 and the likely total refinery capacity by then is about
1.5 million BPD. Capacity utilization is expected to be 90% or higher during
1976-1980.
3.10      Crude oil is imported through the ports of Rio de Janeiro, San
Sebastian (close to Santos), and Porto Alegre. Crude production from the
Carmopolis field in Sergipe (about 30,000 BPD) is shipped via the terminal
in Atlaia to the refineries in the south.
3.11      The inland refinery close to Belo Horizonte (Betim) is supplied
through a pipeline from Rio. The only other existing pipeline starts at the
port of San Sebastian and supplies the inland refineries in Capuava and
Campinas (both in Sao Paulo). The new refinery at Araucaria will get its
crude via a new pipeline now almost completed from the new port at San
Franscisco do Sul in the north of Santa Catarina. A new deep water port is
currently under construction at Ilha Gr.nde (about 100 km south of Rio).
Pipelines from Ilha Grande will connect to the existing pipelines starting
from Rio and San Sebastian. The new refinery at San Jose dos Campos will be
supplied by the line between Ilha Grande and San Sebastian.
3.12      The amount of residual or heavy oil produced in Brazil can vary
considerably with the type of crude being used and the demand pattern for
light and middle distillates. Normally, PETROBRAS produces about 20% of
its total production as a heavy fraction, which is the feedstock for the
proposed project. The heavy fraction includes fuel oil, residual oil and
asphalt. Fuel oil use has been encouraged by nearly totally excluding it



- 39 -
from taxes. The naphtha/fuel oil price ratio has been about 3/1, a much
higher ratio than for international prices. Price for fuel oil as of January
1976 is US$35/ton ex-refinery. Prices are revised every three months and
are the same for all refineries. The main uses of fuel oil are for indust-
rial steam making and for fuel applications in the steel industry. The amount
of fuel oil used for ocean shipping is not known. Residual oil (the remaining
fraction after asphalt is removed) is not a saleable product as such. It must
be blended with lighter fractions to reduce viscosity and sulfur to acceptable
limits to produce a commercial grade fuel oil.
3.13      The availability of the heavy fraction is quite different from
region to region. The Sao Paulo region with its rapid industrial development
has no surplus, while the refineries at Campinas and Betim have additional
capacity to produce more. The industrial development that is expected to
take place in the Belo Horizonte area will significantly increase the demand
for fuel oil in that area in the near future. The new refinery at Araucaria
with a daily capacity of 20,000 tons of crude throughput, is expected to pro-
duce about 3,200 TPD of heavy fraction which would be consumed as follows:
Araucaria-Heavy Petroleum Fraction Production and Uses
(Tons Per Day)
Production Capacity                                         3,200
Uses:
Asphalt                                                  430
Industrial Steam Generation                              420
Feedstock for Ammonia/Urea Plant                       1,400
Sub-Total                                        2,250
Available for other uses                                 950
Since there is excess available, it would be blended into other fractions
or less would be produced by using a lighter crude feed to the refinery.
3.   PETROQUISA and Present Fertilizer Operations
3.14      PETROBRAS is deeply involved in the petrochemical and nitrogen
fertilizer industries, through its wholly owned subsidiary, PETROBRAS
Quimica, S.A. (PETROQUISA). PETROQUISA has a major involvement in a large
petrochemical complex in Sao Paulo and is building additional petrochemical
complexes in Bahia and Porto Alegre (TFC participates in one of the sub-
sidiaries of the Sao Paulo complex).
3.15      PETROQUISA owns two fertilizer companies, Ultrafertil (about 85%
of shares) in Sao Paulo and PETROFERTIL (100% of shares) in Bahia, which are
described below in more detail. The two companies with an installed nutrient



- 40 -
capacity of about 200,000 TPY, account for about 22% of the present fertilizer
production capacity in Brazil and 55% of nitrogen capacity.
3.16      Ultrafertil S.A., established in 1966, produces and distributes
fertilizer for domestic consumption. Current share ownership is PETROQUISA
(85%), Ultra Group (10%), and IFC (5%). The nitrogen-phosphate fertilizer
complex near Santos, Sao Paulo has a capacity of 460,000 TPY fertilizers.
Commercial operations began in October 1970. Initially, Phillips Petroleum,
a US petroleum and fertilizer company developed Ultrafertil, and had majority
ownership. Financial problems related to low capacity utilization and low
prices caused Phillips to withdraw and in 1974 PETROQUISA purchased all of
Phillips interests.
3.17      The company is now operating on a profitable basis as shown below:
Brazil - Ultrafertil Financial Data
1971       1972         1973        1974
Sales Revenue (USS million)             39.8        43.9         77.9       136.9
Net Income (Loss) (US$ million)          (9.7)     (10.3)        (3.2)       21.5
Long-Term Debt/Equity                    6.7        11.2         23.4         2.6
Current Ratio                            1.0          .9          1.1         1.4
Debt Service Coverage                      .5          .3          .5         1.3
In 1974 there was an improvement in production from all units, which
generally exceeded rated capacity. This improvement, together with substan-
tial price increases and exceptionally favorable market conditions, were the
principal factors producing the large net income for 1974, Ultrafertil's
first profitable year.
3.18      Ultrafertil has a strong marketing organization and is expected
to market a significant portion of BRASFERTIL production , although no market-
ing arrangements have yet been made. Ultrafertil does not produce urea and is
short of ammonia production, but markets significant quantities of both at
present. Its marketing organization would have to expand greatly, however.
3.19      PETROFERTIL is located near Salvador, Bahia in an industrial area
that will also include a petrochemical complex and related port facilities (now
under construction). Its production is based on natural gas piped from fields
in Bahia, Sergipe and Alagois. The first plant, commissioned in 1971, was
built by PETROBRAS and has a capacity cf 55,000 TPY N and includes the only
urea plant now operating in Brazil(95% capacity utilization in 1974 and 1975).
About 80% of production is marketed in the Northeast and the balance is shipped
(primarily by road and rail) to the Center.
3.20      The second plant, a 270,000 TPY ammonia  unit and a 250,000 TPY
urea unit, is scheduled for production by the end of 1976. This project
includes an ammonia terminal at the new port. Almost all of its production
will be transhipped to Rio Grande do Sul, primarily by coastal vessels. It
also is being built under PETROBRAS project management and will be turned over
to PETROFERTIL on completion.



BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
PETROBRAS CORPORATE ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
SUBSIDIARIES  EXPLORATION AND~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~BAR
SUBSIDIARIES                       AND            INDUSTRIAL               TRANSPORT               COMMERCIAL
APRODUCTIQN              OEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT      II        OEPARTMENT
AFFILIATES              DEPARTMENT                 PRIN
SUPPORT              SUPPORT             RS CH &              EXEC. GROup            REGIONAL
SERVICES FOR           SERVICES           DEVELOPMENT            FOR LAND             AND BRANCH
RIO DE JANEIRO         FOR BAHIA              CENTER                 USE                 OFFICES
PERSONN I   I            IIIl                                                                    I       IORGANIZA-                PUBLIC
PLANNING            PERSONNEL            PURCHASING             FINANCIAL           ENGINEERING              LEGAL               TIONAL               RELATIONS
SERVICES             SERVICES              SERVICES             SERVICES             SERVICES              SERVICES             SERVICES               SERVICES_
FERTILIZER PROJECT                                                                 S IP:
IMPLEMENTATION  |                                                                   IC
UNIT                                                                           C 
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
FEBRUARY 19, 1976                                                                                                                                    Woald Bank-15762



Table 3-1
Page &l2
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FETILIZER PROJECT
HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In us$ Millions)
For the Year Endina Dec. 31                               PETROBRAS - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                   PETROBRAS & SUBSIDIARIES - CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS-/
1972       1973       1974                               1973          1974            1975
(Revised)
Gross Revenues                                             2070.6    2957.9    5276.5                                3334.1       5811.5          7735.5
Sales & other Taxes                                      857.4    1152.5    1524.5                               1031.2        1218.0          1340.9
Cost of Sales                                            797.6    1227.3    2672.8                               1575.5        3235.8         4563.6
Other Charges                                            129.3      231.5       504.2                              350.0        685.5           967.8
Monetary Correction on Working Capital                     -          -         111.6                               49.4        131.8           158.7
Provision for Income Taxes                                 9.6       10.4        19.9                               26.2         32.4            25.5
Net Income                                       276,7      336.2       443.5                              301.8        508.0           679.0
Sources of Funds
Current Operations                                       423.0      609.3    1098.1                                            1052.7          1169.2
Capital Subscription Government Funds
for Investment & Other Sources                         184.0      192.6      293.5                                           282.4           335.6
Loans                                                     55.9      197.6      830.1                                            957.5          1373.3
Total Sources                                    662.9      999.5    2221.7                                            2292.6          2676.1
Uses of Funds
Repayment of Long Term Debt                                38.9       86.5      N.A.                                             487.6          1051.5
Capital Investments                                       453.5      622.0      945.8                               640.7        937.5          1401.9
Dividends and Other Uses                                   27.7      101.8      N.A.                                              69.8           159.9
Addition to Working Capital                               142.8      189.2      N.A.                                             797.7           264.8
Total Uses                                       662.9      999.5    2221.7                                            2292.6          2878.1
Current Assets                                              785.1    1188.4    2255.9                                1474.2       2642.4          3810.5
Long-Term  Investments & Receivables                         24.3        28.5      321.4                               51.0         47.2            42.7
Fixed Assets (Net)                                         1349.1    1779.8    1748.4                                2001.2       2186.8          3271.9
Deferred Charges (Net)                                       36.1        28.9       70.9                               76.3        115.9            98.8
Current Liabilities                                         390.7      604.7    1100.2                                775.7       1270.3          2344.6
long-Term Debt                                              139.6      258.3       727.9                              533.8       1021.5          1207.8
Minoric; C-pical I. Subsidiaries                S                                                                     62.5          34.2            80.8
Equit--
Capital                                                  1094.9    1146.7    1350.2                               1146.7        1350.2          1566.1
Retained Ecrnings & Reserves                              569.4    1015.8    1218.3                                1064.0       1316.1          2024.6
Total Equity                                    1664.2    2162.5    2568.5                               2210.7        2666.3
Total Assets or Liabilities                                2194.6    3025.5    4396.6                                3602.7       4992.3          7223,9
2/
Long-Tern Debt Equity- Ratio                                8:92       11:89       22:78                              19:81        27:73           25:75
Current Ratio              2/                               2.0         2.0         2.0                                1.9          2.1             1.6
Net Income as % of Equity                                  16.6         15.5       17.3                               13.2          18.8           18.9
Exchange Rate Cr.$/US$1.00                                  6.22        6.22        7.44                               6.22          7.44           8.50
1/  Consolidated statements were prepared  starting in 1973.  Prior statements were not consolidated.  Only consolidated statements are
published after 1974.
2/ Including minority capital in subsidiaries for the consolidated ratio.
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



Table 3-2
Page 43
BRAZIL - ARAUCARA iERTILIZER PROJECT
PETROBRAS Refineri es
?etrobras Internal                Location or
Name                    Expansion Scheme                      Crude Capacitv
(mT/da- y   BPD
E- t in'
RLLA           Mataripe (Babia)                               1 4,000
REBO           Cubatao (Sao Paulo)                            28, 0oo
R;BUC          Duque de Caxias (Rio de Janeiro)               35,000
RPMAP          Betim/Bello Horizante (nas Geradw)             11,000
F:Z?AP          Canoas/Porto Alegre (Rio Grande do Sul)       11,000
IRZL4AN        Camoiinas (Sao Paulo)                          55,000
I mN Caiaus (.Amazonas)                                        1,600
RAP            Capuava (Sao Paulo)                             5,600
ASFOR          Asphalt Plant (Fortaleza, Ceara)                  700
Total Existing                               162,300  1,000,000
Under Construction
MR2AR          Arauaaria (Parana)                             20,000
REVIA          San Jose dos Cam,pos (Sao Paulo)               30,,000
Total Under Construction                      50, 000    310,000
25)ansions
RIP.2          New Topping  and Vacuum                         8,000
RMUO           New Lube Complex                                7,000
REGPA?        ) Dxlicating of                                 10,000
-A?           jf.acilities                                    10,000
R12-10,        Rrpansion                                       4, 800
Total Enspsions                         _     39800   2?50.000
Total Fcpected Capacity by 1979              252,10    1,560,000
industrial Projects Department
.4ay 1975



- 44 -
IV. ARAUCARIA AMMONIA/UREA PROJECT
A.   Project Scope
4.01      The project consists of a 1,200 metric tons per day (TPD) ammonia
plant of which 870 TPD ammonia would be converted to urea in a 1,500 TPD
plant, and about 330 TPD ammonia would be for direct sales to other ferti-
lizer producers. The annual nutrient capacity is 325,000 TPY nitrogen.
The high sulfur heavy residual (HSHR) petroleum feedstock will be obtained
from the adjacent PETROBRAS refinery (para 6.08). A 58 TPD sulfur recovery
unit will be included. A schematic flowsheet of the project is given in
Figure 4-1.
4.02      Facilities will include 5,000 tons ammonia storage, 30,000 tons
urea storage (bulk and bagged), an air separation plant (required for the
ammonia unit), plus laboratories, offices and maintenance shops. Utilities,
power, steam and water, will be obtained from the refinery (para 6.08).
4.03      About 200 hectares of idle land adjacent to the refinery has been
purchased for the project. The land is relatively flat and clear and presents
no unusual problem for construction. Roads and rail connections will be
extended from the refinery to the new site.
B.   Technology
4.04      The ammonia plant will be based on partial oxidation technology and
will be a single train installation using three partial oxidation units. The
urea plant, based on Stamicarbon (Netherlands) technology, is also a single
train design. Both units would be the first of their design and size in Brazil
but represent modern, commercially proven technology established elsewhere in
the world.
4.05      Ammonia (NH3) is manufactured by a catalytic reaction of hydrogen
(H2) and nitrogen (N 2) as follows:
3H2 +N 2-> 2NH3
2    2         3
The nitrogen source is air and the hydrogen source is a hydrocarbon. The
feedstock of the Araucaria project is a residual oil fraction which contains
about 6% sulfur. To convert this oil to ammonia involves the following
steps, which are briefly described below:
1.   Partial oxidation of residual oil (Shell Process)
2.   Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) removal (Rectisol Process)



- 45 -
3.   Conversion of carbon monoxide (CO) to carbon dioxide (CO 2)
4.   Carbon dioxide (CO2) removal (Rectisol Process)
5.   Sulfur (S) recovery (Claus Process)
6.   Air separation unit
7.   Synthesis gas (3H2 + N2) purification
8.   Compression
9.   Ammonia synthesis (Haldor Topsoe Process)
4.06      The plant design is based on a successfully operating unit, owned
by Veba-Chemie in Germany (FRG) that was designed and built by the same
German engineering companies, Uhde and Lurgi, that will build the Araucaria
Project. The two companies are also supplying the basic design for similar
units in two IDA projects now under construction in India - Nangal (Report
No. 46-IN) and Sindri (Report No. 569-IN).
4.07      Partial oxidation, i.e. burning the oil with a deficit of oxygen
and excess steam, converts the oil to hydrogen and carbon monoxide with
smaller amounts of hydrogen sulfide, hydrocarbon compounds, and free carbon
being formed. The solid carbon is removed and recycled back to the partial
oxidation unit and burned as fuel. The product gas stream is then cooled
first by generating steam and then by refrigeration with liquid nitrogen.
4.08      The Rectisol process for removing H S and CO  is based on the
preferential solubility of these gases in methanol.  Since the CO2 must
be recovered in a pure form for conversion to urea, the H 2S is removed
first, then CO is converted to CO and then the process is repeated to
remove CO 2 Hydrogen sulfide (and other sulhur compounds) are removed by
absorption into methanol at about -30 C and under pressure. The methanol
-H 2S solution is separated and on depressurization, the H 2S evaporates and
is sent to the sulfur recovery unit. The methanol is recycled back to the
absorption step.
4.09      The next processing step reheats the gas stream and converts the CO
to CO2 by a catalytic reaction called "shift conversion."
4.10      Hydrogen and CO2 gases from the shift conversion section are cooled
by liquid nitrogen and the CO2 is absorbed by cold methanol.  The CO2 is then



- 46 -
removed from the methanol by depressurization and sent to the urea plant.
The methanol is recycled to the absorption stage as before.
4.11      The remaining gas stream is impure hydrogen.   Impurities are re-
moved by absorption with liquid nitrogen. Nitrogen gas is then combined with
the pure hydrogen in the molecular ratio of 3:1, compressed to about 250
atmospheres and then catalytically converted to NH3 in the final process step
and the NH3 is liquified and put into a storage tank.
4.12      The oxygen for partial oxidation and nitrogen for the several
steps above are produced by cooling and liquification and separation of
air I/ by distillation.
4.13      Urea, CO (NH2)2, is synthesized from NH3 and CO2 under pressure
in two stages according to the following overall reaction:
NH3 +  Co2  ->  CO (NH2)2
Unconverted NH 3 and C2 are separated and recycled back into the process.
The urea is in an aqueous solution that is concentrated to remove all water
and, as a melt, is sprayed into the top of a tall "prilling" tower. The
droplets solidify into hard spheres or "prills" which are collected at the
base of the tower, then cooled and transferred to bulk storage. The pro-
duct is either sold in bulk or is subsequently bagged and then sold.
4.14      The consumption of raw materials, utilities and production
at full capacity are shown below:
Ammonia         Urea         Total
Residual Oil (fueld & feedstock), TPH    58.5               -           58.5
Electric Power, KW                           8.5            2.8         11.3
Boiler Feedwater, M3 /H                    460            115          575
Cooling Water, M /H                     20,000          5,000       25,000
Production, /1 TPD                       1,200          1,500            -
Sales, /1 TPD                              330          1,500
/1   Plus 58 TPD elemental sulphur.
1/   An argon recovery unit is also under consideration.  Air contains about
21% oxygen, 78% nitrogen, 0.5% argon and lesser amounts of other gases.
Argon is an inert gas with many industrial uses, including welding.



- 47 -
C.   Ecology
4.15      Effluents from the plant will be controlled to reasonable levels,
based on the similar operating unit in Germany. About 95% of the sulfur
in the residual oil is recovered and the balance discharged as a 200 PPM SO
gaseous effluent.  A liquid effluent, containing a maximum of 50 PPM NH3 , g.5
PPM HCN, and 0.6 PPM methanol, is discharged to the water treatment plant of
the adjacent refinery. Effluent standards of the state of Parana have not
yet been established, but any modifications, if necessary, will be made by
the project sponsor. The liquid effluent can be burned to decompose the ef-
fluents into harmless gases and consideration is being given to this approach.
D.   Employment and Training
4.16      The project will provide direct employment for about 400 people, most
of whom are professionals, skilled or semi-skilled. The staff will be recruited
from the nearby city of Curitiba which has a population of over one million, or
transferred from PETROBRAS's refinery or PETROQUISA's fertilizer plant operations.
4.17      PETROBRAS has an excellent training program to supply the large
number of staff required for its growing refinery and petrochemical program.
PETROBRAS' subsidiaries have two ammonia complexes that will be used for in-
plant training and the process licensors and contractors will provide special
training for the particular process technology involved. Except for an initial
period during construction and commissioning, the project will be staffed wholly
by Brazilian personnel.
E.   Project Administration and Implementation
4.18      The project will be implemented by BRASFERTIL with the assistance of
the Engineering Department of PETROBRAS. Following PETROBRAS' normal procedure
that it has used in building its own refineries and PETROFERTIL's ammonia
plants (para 3.20), its project staff will have overall responsibility for the
project. Basic engineering (plus foreign procurement services) will be
obtained from a consortium of German engineering firms, 1/ Uhde and Lurgi,
for the ammonia plant and from Uhde for the urea plant. Detailed engineering
(and local procurement services) will be provided by an experienced Brazilian
engineering firm, Natron. Erection will be sub-contracted to local firms.
Uhde and Lurgi will provide supervisory personnel during engineering, procure-
ment, erection and commissioning, as well as process guarantees for plant
performance. The implementation schedule is shown in Figure 4-2. Engineering
work started in January 1976.
4.19      Given the large experience of PETROBRAS and the engineering con-
tractors in constructing similar facilities, no difficulties in project
execution are anticipated.
1/   The contract has already been signed and is available in the Project
File.



BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA AMMONIA/UREA PROJECT
PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
AIRAI
T  |N~ ~~2                                     | 21
HIGH SULFUR          PART                  SULFUR
HEAVY RESIDUE         OXIDAI             REMOVAL          CONVERSION    IS
(HSHR)
UTILITIES FROM REFINERY ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ YNHEISGA
WATER~~~~~~~~R
F SULFUR
e F
World Banik-15732 



BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILJZFIp pPOORCT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDuTlF,
MONTHS
!TEtd:       I~~ |Z  I  4 5 6 71 3 9 I o|l11|M 131,4 .5I : 1161is'B'19 21122l4Z5a!7Z930l311l32l' Y -3633713elZ-l 41
'i.C!;pAOiT          _11                        *       ---  -ltjj-+  T 75 ii.~~1 ~az1 |j  IaoL  Izs21o           I              f    
OTHER EQUIPMENT                       --                 v!.-l.1!K                                                     Ii
PIFIN1. I NSTRUMENT 8 ELEC.    _     i      1  WLt                                             - 
1U . EA                                                 IZLIIF 
FCUNA;NEG;PZNT                        IX11  21|              I                    - . 1   -. .1.. - 1 1    Ii  f1:-- t- I      I '' 
OTFIER EQUIPMENT                  1 1          I                              t
P; ING. INSTnum.NT a ELEC.
WATERTRATMENT TRZAT4T..:                                                          i7E. 1                    -A   .L
COOLING TOWE`RS                                  *f                    ....j--
tY:iTEr 8 Pt3R-SUPPLY IN DtST.       If| liI        .
MATtCR:AL XA?"DLING -QUIP.                                          I. I l ! |1 ;
RAILWAY SIDING            FI                                  ......        I I.
OTHEOR  5 F; ...T. [|    IZ   !||3     
MIK_ ~     ~           ~          ~            
FOUNDATIONS                           |        |...... 
K11     I            i              ~~~~~~~~~~~COMIPLTON
STEEL OrD ERING               .                  I.                                                                         TEST1NG                      0
la UPPL~Y                                             -                      I_1. ..L                        L.. ...1 
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                 CD
*-. - DEDIGN/EV  CENEERING                 *......... CONTRACTING/PROCUREMENT                 -      C0NSTRUCTION/EXECUTXDN



- 50 -
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Capital Costs
5.01       The total financing required for the project is estimated at
US$272 million equivalent (Cr$2,311 million) of which US$140.0 million
(Cr$1,190 million) is in foreign exchange. The capital cost estimate is
based on end of 1975 prices and already reflects the high rate of equipment
price increases experienced in 1974 and 1975. The estimate (Table 5-1) is
summarized below:
Araucaria - Summary Capital Cost Estimate /1
Cr$ Million                  US$ Million
Foreign    Local               Foreign      Local
Exchange  Currency Total   Exchange /2 Currency Total  %
Equipment & Materials       636       381    1,017        74.8          44.8 /3 119.6  62
Engineering & Licenses       83        52       135        9.8           6.1      15.9   8
Land & Civil Works            19      118       137         2.2         13.9      16.1   9
Erection                     35       199       234        4.1          23.4      27.5  14
Supervision & Pre-
Operating Expenses         32      - 80       112        3.8          9.4      13.2   7
Base Cost Estimate        805       830    1,635        94.7         97.6    192.3 100
Physical Contingencies       68        69       137        8.0           8.2      16.2   8
Price Escalation             106      117       223       12.5          13.8      26.3  14
Installed Cost            979    1,016    1,995        115.2        119.6    234.8 122
Working Capital               55       59        114        6.5          6.9      13.4
Interest during
Construction              156        46       202       18.3          5.4      23.7
Total Financing
Required              1,190    1,121    2,311        140.0        131.9    271.9
/1   An exchange rate of Cr$8.50 = US$1.0 is used in this report.
/2   Including US$31.6 (CR$269) million equivalent of indirect foreign ex-
change cost.
/3   Including US$3.6 (Cr$31) million equivalent for import duties that may
be payable by the project.



- 51 -
5.02      Part of the equipment costs were derived on the basis of a separate
list of goods jointly determined by PETROBRAS and local manufacturers, to be
reserved for local procurement. The price estimates for imported goods were
provided by the engineering contractor while the price estimates for local
equipment were provided by PETROBRAS. The costs for erection and civil works
were estimated from the PETROFERTIL fertilizer plant currently under construc-
tion (para 3.20). The cost of foreign engineering and licenses are the actual
values of the contracts negotiated by PETROBRAS (signed in January 1976) and
no physical contingency or price escalation is provided for this item. The
foreign exchange cost of supervision and commissioning expenses are also based
on the contracts signed and already include provisions for the estimated wage
escalation. However, the cost of local supervision services and commissioning
expenses are subject to physical and price contingencies. The estimated cost
of engineering and supervision services range from US$3,800 to US$4,500 per
man-month for local personnel and from US$5,500 to US$8,000 per man-month for
foreign personnel (in end of 1975 wage levels) exclusive of travel and subsis-
tence allowances.
5.03      For directly imported equipment and import duties, there is a 10%
provision for physical contingencies. For all locally procured materials and
services, with the exception of engineering and land, there is a 9% allowance
for physical contingencies. The Government has recently modified the import
duty exemptions for national priority projects, reducing the exemption that
can be granted by the Conselho. Desenvolvimento Industrial (CDI) from 100% to
80% of the duties that would otherwise be payable. However, exemptions over
80% can be requested from a higher (ministerial level) authority. BRASFERTIL
has received an 80% exemption from CDI and has since applied for a 100% exemp-
tion. The provision for import duties in the capital cost estimate is based
on an 80% exemption. Should the actual exemption exceed 80%, part of the
provisions for duties will be added to physical contingencies.
5.04      The base cost estimate (BCE) assumes that a major portion of the
urea output will be sold in bulk and that shipments will be fairly regular.
Nonetheless, the physical contingency provision takes into consideration the
possibility of a larger bagging facility and larger storage capacity. The
project will share and utilize several infra-structure facilities and utili-
ties (power supply, raw water treatment, etc.) with the adjacent refinery but
most of these offsite facilities will require additional capacity to accommo-
date the combined requirement of the refinery and the fertilizer plant. The
refinery will finance the additional capacity and charge the fertilizer plant
for the operating inputs.
5.05      Most equipment orders are expected to be placed by the end of 1976
or early 1977 on a fixed price basis. On the basis of the commitment schedule
and assumed international inflation rate, as shown in Table 5-2, a price esca-
lation factor of 14% is provided for equipment, erection, civil works, local
supervision and commissioning expenses. International price inflation is
also used for the price escalation of local purchases (expressed in US
dollars) on the assumption that differences in the domestic and the inter-
national inflation rates will be accounted for by adjustments in the exchange
rate. This is the current government policy which is expected to continue.



- 52 -
5.06      The permanent working capital requirement is estimated in Table 5-3
assuming that only 55% of the projected accounts receivable will be financed
with capital funds. The remaining portion will be initially financed by short
term credit and ultimately by internally generated funds. The permanent work-
ing capital is based on operating costs and prices expressed in constant 1975
dollars but has been escalated by 41% to arrive at the funds requirement (in
current US dollars) in 1979 when the project starts commercial production.
5.07      The interest during cnnstruction was estimated on the basis of a
59% debt and a 41% equity financing for the project. The assumed loan terms
are discussed in Section B and the calculations of the interest during con-
struction for each of the loan sources are shown in Table 5-4 (BNDE loan),
Table 5-5 (World Bank loan) and Table 5-6 (supplier's and other foreign loans).
The BNDE loan is indexed, which is essentially equivalent to fixing the
interest rate and the loan amount outstanding in real terms, and then adjust-
ing the actual debt service payments (interest and principal) into current
terms using the compounded inflation rate (or appropriate monetary correction
factor) from the effectiveness of the loan up to the time of a particular
repayment. The calculation of the interest during construction for the BNDE
loan in Table 5-4 is on an indexed basis.
B.   Financing Plan
5.08      The project will be financed with about 41% equity and 59% debt.
PETROBRAS will provide the entire equity funds. However, 20% of the equity
will be issued as preferred shares and PETROBRAS intends to attract private
groups or the public at large into an equity position through the preferred
shares after production starts and operations reach profitable levels. An
analysis of the cash flow projections of PETROBRAS indicates that the company
would be able to provide comfortably the required equity funds or cost overrun
financing should this be necessary.
5.09      The debt is expected to be provided by long-term loans from the
National Economic Development Bank (BNDE) and the World Bank. The balance
will be provided by medium-term loans from portions of the supplier's credits
which PETROBRAS has already arranged (France, UK and Romania) for its other
capital investment program (para 3.07) and from foreign commercial banks. The
financing plan is as follows:



- 53 -
Araucaria - Proposed Financing Plan 1/
In Cr$ Million          In US$ Million
Total    %
Equity (PETROBRAS) 2/                    951                 111.9    41
Local Loan (BNDE) 2/                     467                  55.0    20
Foreign Loans
World Bank                         425                   50.0    19
Supplier's Credits                 29A                   35.0    13
Commercial Banks                   170                   20.0      7
Total Loans                    1,360                  160.0    59
TOTAL FINANCING                        2,311                 271.9   100
/1   The loan amounts have been rounded to the nearest US$5 million and the
actual equity is 41% although the minimum equity required is 40%.
/2   The local contributions to the financing plan include indirect foreign
exchange costs.
5.10      The supplier's credits are generally medium-term tied loans (with a
fixed maximum) of five to ten years maturity including two to three years'
grace. They can be utilized to finance up to 80% of the cost of equipment and
materials purchased from the respective country. Considering the present
sources of supplier's credits and the expected competitive sources of directly
imported equipment, the project should be able to utilize about US$35 million
of these loans. Although PETROBRAS' lines of credit exceed this amount seve-
ral fold, it would not be advisable to utilize a larger amount of supplier's
credits as this could increase capital costs and also burden the project with
high debt service payments during the initial years of operation due to the
short maturity and grace period of such loans. Since the construction period
is three and one half years and the grace period of the supplier's credits is
at most three years only, some refinancing of the loans would be necessary.
However, it is likely that the loans will be extended to PETROBRAS and not
made directly to the project entity. In this case PETROBRAS will be required
to onlend the equivalent amount to the project with a grace period of four
years or up to about mid-1980, after the project has produced for about one
year. On the other hand, if the supplier's credit is extended directly to the
project entity, then PETROBRAS will be required to provide additional funds
(as loans to the project) for principal repayments during the construction
period. For purposes of estimating the interest during construction (Table
5-6) and the debt service schedule for the medium term loans the appraisal
assumes that the loans will be effective towards the end of 1976.
5.11      PETROBRAS plans to obtain untied medium-term commercial bank loans
through one or more banks or a long term-loan through a private placement with
investment banks for at least US$20 million. The possibility of associating
these loans in a co-financing arrangement with the Bank is also being explored.
These foreign loans will likely be finalized towards the end of 1976 and



- 54 -
PETROBRAS will pre-finance any disbursements in foreign exchange not eligible
for Bank or supplier's credit financing prior to effectiveness of the untied
foreign loans.
5.12      BRASFERTIL has applied to BNDE for a loan of US$55 million equiva-
lent. The normal maturity of BNDE's large industrial loans is from eight to
twelve years although in the case of the Bank assisted steel projects (CSN and
COSIPA), BNDE provided loans with maturities of 15 years including three years
of grace. For this project, PETROBRAS has requested BNDE to extend the matu-
rity and the grace period of its loan to equal substantially the World Bank
terms so that the debt service burden of BRASFERTIL will be acceptable. The
financial analysis assumes that the BNDE loan is for 15 years including four
years' grace. The BNDE loan will be expressed in constant terms with a real
interest rate of 4% annually. Loan disbursements and debt service payments
however, are in current terms using a monetary correction factor (index) tied
to the domestic inflation rate. The v-alue of the BNDE loan in constant
January 1976 cruzeiros is about US$47 million equivalent (Table 5-4) with
monetary correction during the disbursement period adding an estimated US$8
million for a total disbursement of US$55 million equivalent in current terms.
Both the principal and the interest payments are also subject to monetary
correction or indexing. Under the assumed international inflation rates and
assuming further that the exchange rate will be adjusted to account for differ-
ences between the domestic inflation rates and the international inflation
rates, the BNDE loan would be equivalent to a conventional foreign loan with
interest rate of about 13% annually.
5.13      A Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent is proposed for 15 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace at the standard Bank rate (currently 8.5%
annual interest) plus a 1.5% guarantee fee to the Government. The Bank loan,
the BNDE loan and possibly the foreign commercial bank loans as well, will be
made to BRASFERTIL. Most, if not all, of the supplier's credits will be made
to PETROBRAS who will onlend to BRASFERTIL with at least the same terms.
BRASFERTIL will bear the foreign exchange risk for all foreign loans, includ-
ing those onlent by PETROBRAS. Should any shortfall occur in the financing
plan, or should the project require additional funds, PETROBRAS will provide
the necessary funds in the form of equity and/or loans to complete the project.
The funds will be provided such that BRASFERTIL's debt equity ratio at project
completion will not exceed 60/40 and it has a current ratio of at least 1.2:1.0.
For purposes of this covenant, the project will be considered complete when
the plant has been tested and proven to be satisfactory in accordance with
established engineering procedures, and has operated at an average production
rate of not less than 80% of the design capacity during a period of 60 conse-
cutive days. PETROBRAS has agreed to the financing plan in para 5.09 and to
the cost overrun and financing gap commitment.



- 55 -
C.   Procurement and Disbursement
5.14      The Government requires one of three procurement procedures to be
followed for a project to qualify for exemptions (total or partial) from cus-
toms duties. The first option is to have all equipment and materials pur-
chased through international competitive bidding (ICB) with a 15% preference
granted to domestic suppliers (substantially identical to Bank procedures)
provided that foreign financing has a 15-year maturity or longer. The second
option is international competitive bidding (ICB) with a margin of preference
equal to the equivalent import duty (in this case 40% or more) if foreign
financing has less than 15 years maturity. The third option is for the project
sponsor to prepare, in consultation with the association of local manufacturers,
a list of equipment and materials reserved for local procurement. On a reason-
ably competitive basis, PETROBRAS estimates local suppliers will be able to
provide approximately 47% of the cost of equipment and supplies, some US$68.4
million (including contingencies and price escalation). The third option is
the normal procedure used by PETROBRAS for its other projects and will be
utilized here. Under this procedure, local suppliers either voluntarily re-
frain from participating in ICB or waive their rights to the preference margin.
This procedure would be administratively simpler for PETROBRAS and would be
financially less expensive than the second option (with an import duty of 40%
or more). PETROBRAS estimates that under the third option local equipment for
the project will cost an average 25-30% above the CIF cost of equivalent im-
ported equipment. For items to be financed by Bank funds, procurement proce-
dures would permit local suppliers to participate in ICB with the usual 15%
(or the import duty rate if lower) preference margin. However, goods to be
allocated for Bank financing are not likely to be supplied by local firms be-
cause of lack of experience. Thus, except for about US$2 million equivalent
for local engineering services, the rest of the Bank funds are expected to
finance foreign expenditures.
5.15      The estimated uses of the project funds are shown in Table 5-7.
For purchases where Bank financing will be utilized, the lists of goods and
their potential suppliers will require prior Bank approval and procurement
will follow Bank guidelines. The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance ex-
penditures for: (i) equipment and materials procured through ICB (US$26.0 mil-
lion); (ii) imported items and packages costing US$100,000 or less procured
through international shopping (US$3.4 million); (iii) proprietary, limited, or
long lead time items critical to the timely completion of the project (US$7.0
million) also procured through international shopping; (iv) foreign licenses
and engineering services (US$11.6 million); and (v) local engineering services
(US$2.0 million). The negotiations with the engineering contractors were com-
pleted by PETROBRAS during September 1975 and the contracts were signed
January 1976 after obtaining the appropriate Government approval. The proce-
dure used by PETROBRAS for engaging the engineering contractors is acceptable
for such services. PETROBRAS will transfer its rights and obligations under
the engineering contracts to BRASFERTIL shortly. Engineering work also started



- 56 -
January 1976 and procurement is expected to start by April/May 1976 with
most imported items ordered during 1976. To maintain this project schedule,
retroactive financing of up to US$3.5 million, to cover down payments made
after January 1, 1976 for engineecring and licenses (US$3.0 million) and for
goods described in item (iii) above (US$0.5 million) is recommended.
5.16      The estimated annual disbursement of the project funds and draw
down of the financing sources are shown in Table 5-8. The expected quarterly
disbursement of the Bank loan is shown in Table 5-9.
D.   Allocation of Bank Loan
5.17      The allocation of the Bank loan is shown below:
Araucaria - Allocation of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Item                                                         Amount
Equipment, Supplies, Spares, Ocean Freight & Insurance                33.0
Licenses and Engineering Services                                     12.0
Unallocated                                                            5.0
50.0



Table5-
Page ,T
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
(In millions of US Dollars)i
Foreign Exchange Cost"                 Local
Direct    Foreign Exchange  Total            Currency            Total             Total
Imports   Part of Lota1       Foreign        Part of Local       Local             Project
(CIF)     Purchases !        Exchange       Purchases          Purchases          Cost       X
Equipment and Materials3/
a.  Ammonia Unit                  36.2        8.1               44.3            24.4               32.5               68.7
b.  Urea Unit                      9.8        2.2                12.0            6.7                8.9               18.7
c.  Utilit4s & Offsites           11.5        2.9               14.4             8.6               11.5               23.0
d.  Spares-                        3.5        0.6                4.1             1.5                2.1                5.6
e.  Import Duties                   -          -                   -             3.6                3.6 
Sub-Total                     61.0       13.8               74.8           44.8                58.6              119.6     62.2
Engineering and Licenses           9.8         _                  9.8            6.1                6.1               15.9       8.3
Civil Works
a.  Ammonia Unit                    -         0.8                 0.8            4.8                5.6                5.6
b.  Urea Unit                       -         0.7                 0.7            4.1                4.8                4.8
c.  Auxiliaries & Offsites          -         0.7                0.7             3.8                4.5                4.5
Sub-Total                       -         2.2                2.2           12.7                14.9               14.9      7.7
Erection
a.  Ammonia Unit                    -         2.8                 2.8           15.9                18.7              18.7
b.  Urea Unit                       -         0.6                 0.6            3.5                 4.1               4.1
c.  Utilities & Offsites            -         0.7                0.7             4.0                4.7                4.7
Sub-Total                       -         4.1                4.1           23.4                27.5               27.5     14.3
Land and Improvements               -          -                   -             1.2                 1.2               1.2      0.6
Supervision, Pre-Operating
& Commissioning Expenses         3.8         -                 3.8             9.4                9.4               13.2       6.9
5/
Base Cost Estimate(BCE)           74.6       20.1               94.7            97.6              117.7              192.3    100.0
Physical Contingencies6/           6.1        1.9                 8.0            8.2               10.1               16,2      8.4
Price EscalationV                  9.4        3.1                12.5           13.8                16.9              26.3    13.7
Installed Cost                90.1       25.1              115.2          119.6               144.7             234.8   122.1
Working Capital                     -         6.5                 6.5            6.9                13.4              13.4
Interest during Constructioni   18.3           -                18.3             5.4                5.4               23.7
Total Financing              108.4       31.6              140.0          131.9               163.5              271.9
1/  An exchange rate of Cr$8.50 - US$1.00 is used in this report.
2/  The foreign exchange component of locally supplied materials are assumed as follows:  Equipment -- 25%; Civil Work and
Erection - 15%; Permanent Working Capital -- taken from Table 5-3 (escalated).
3/  Local costs include delivery to site of imported items.
4/  6% of imported equipment and 4% of locally supplied equipment.
5/  At end of 1975 prices.
6/  10% of directly imported equipment and duties; and 9% on local purchases excluding engineering and land
7/  14% for equipment, civil works, erection, local supervision, and physical contingencies.
8/  The foreign exchange interest is composed of US$7.9 million for the World Bank loan and US$10.4 million for the other
foreign loans.   The local currency interest includes the government guarantee fee (US$1.4 million) on the Bank loan.
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



TTable 5-2
Pag-e  F
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
CALCULATION OF PRICE ESCALATION FACTOR
A.  Assumed Inflation Rates
International                  Compounded -
Year          Price Inflation,%              Inflatiol RateA-
1976                    10                             5
1977                     8                            14
1978                     8                            2
1979                     8                            31 (up to March 1979)
1980-85                  7                            --
1/ From end of 1975 to mid-year. 1975 inflation rate is 12%. Compounded
inflation rate from mid-1975 to mid-1979 is 41%.
B.  Expenditure Commitment Schedule (Base Cost Estimate and
Physical Contingencies - Prices as of end of 1975)
Year           % Committed (Ordered)
1976                    40
1977                    30
1978                    25
1979 (< year)           5
Total            100
C. Price Escalation Factor
Compounded         Fraction          Weighted
Year             Inflation Rate, %    Committed   Escalation Factor, %
1976                  5                 0.40              2.0
1977                1b                  0.30              4.2
1978                 24                 0.25             6.0
1979                 31                 0.05              1.6
Total Price Escalation :        13.8%
Say :       1b%
Industrial Projects Department
January 22, 1976



Table 5-3
Page 59
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
PERMANENT WORKING CAPITAL
A.   Accounts Receivable (30 Day's Output)                             US $ Millions
Urea: 45,000 Tons at US$180/Ton (Bulk)                          8.1
Ammonia:  9,900 Tons at US$180Ton                               1.8
Sulphur:  1,900 Tons at US$85/Ton                               0.2
Sub-Total                                   10.1
B.   Finished Goods and Ammonia Inventory
At Cost Excluding Depreciation
Urea: 40,000 Tons at US$58/Ton                                  2.3
Ammonia: 5,000 Tons at US$84/Ton                                0.4
Sub-Total                                    2.7
C.   Spare Parts Inventory (at acquisition cost)                           7.0
D.   Raw Material Inventory
Feedstock & Fuel (1/24 of Annual Cost)                          0.7
Chemicals & Catalysts (1/6 of Annual Cost)                      0.2
Sub-Total                                    0.9
E.   Minimum Cash (1/12 of Annual Fixed Cost
Excluding Depreciation)                                               1.2
F.   Deductions (Accounts Payable & Short-Term  Loans)
Feedstock & Fuel Oil (100% of Inventory)                        0.7
Utilities (1/24 of Annual Cost)                                 0.2
Short-Term Loans (45% of Accounts Receivable)                   4.5
Spare-Parts Included in Capital Costs (item (C) above)          7.0
Sub-Total    -    --- -                     12>4-
G.   Permanent Working Capital (in 1975 Constant Dollars) /                9.5
H.   Escalated Permanent Working Capital to mid-1979 Dollars              13.4
(Plus 41%)
1/ The foreign exchange component is about US$4.6 million (in constant 1975
dollars) to cover petroleum feedstock and fuel (100% foreign exchange),
catalysts and chemicals (25% foreign exchange) and maintenance (50% foreign
exchange) which comes to US$5.'/Ton of Ammonia and US$33/Ton of Urea.
Industrial Projects Department
January 23, 1976



Thhle 5-4
Page 60
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
INTEREST DURING OONSTRUCTION - BNDE LOAN
A.   Loan Amount and Terms
Amount                 -    US$46.6 million in constant end of 1975 dollars
(in current dollars, disbursement will total
US$55 million). Excludes interest during
construction.
Interoet           _        4% annually on adjusted (escalated for inflation)
amount outstanding.
Commitment Fee         -    Assumed none.
Maturity               -    15 years including 4 years grace period.
Repayment              -    22 equal semi-annual principal payments plus interest
on unpaid balance starting July 1, 1980.
B.   Loan Disbursement Schedule
US$ Million
Year          % Disbursed             In Current $       In Constant End of 1975 $
1976               15                       8.3                  7.9
1977               35                      19.2                 16.8
1978              40                       22.0                 17.7
1979( year)       10                       5.5                 4.2
Total             100                      55.0                46.6
I/
C.   Interest During Construction (In millions of Current US Dollars)-
1976    1977    1978    1979       Total
( year)
1.  Amount outstanding at start
of year                                 0.0      8.7    29.3    54.6
2.  Adjusted amoun outstanding
at mid-year. 2                          0.0      9.0    30.5    56.8
3.  Interest on (2) at 2%
( year)                                0.0     0.2      0.6      1.2
4.  Disbursed at mid-year                   8.3    19.2    22.0       5.5      55.0
5. Adjusted amount outstanding
at year end. V                          8.7    29.3    54.6    62.3
6.  Interest on (5) at 2%
( year)                                0.2     0.6      1.1     0.0
7.  Total Interest                          0.2      0.8     1.7      1.2       3.9
Say $4.0 million
1/ Assuming inflation adjustment is made semi-annually and disbursements are made
at mid-year.
2/ Before disbursements.
3/ Items (2) and (4) adjusted for inflation. Amount for 1979 is for mid-1979.
Industrial Projects Department
January 22, 1976



Table 5-5
Page 61
BRAZIL - ARAUCARLi FMTILZ'M  PROJECT
INTEREST DTJRING CCNSTRJCTION - WORLD BANK LOAN
A.   Loan rnAount andl Terms
An,ount              -  IS$50 millior excluding irterest during
const,ruction.
Interest             -  1C%I/ annually on clisbursed anc oubtstanding
amount.
Conanitmert Fee      -  0.75, annually on undisbursed anount.
Maturity             -  15 years including about 4-- years of grace period.
Repayrier!t          -  22 equal semi-annual payments including
interest (annuity) starting Feb.15, 1981.
B.   Loan Disbtursement Schedule2/
Year              % Disbursed        Amount (US$ million)
1576                20%o                10.0
1. 7                3 (2/s             15.0
1X7&                LLO0,%               20.0
1c9              1C,'                 5.0
Total :        lO0, CO.C)
C.   interest during Cr.nstruction
1576    197        7 19T8    1979  Total
( year)
1.  Total outstanding at
start of year           C.0    1G.0    25.0    ),5.o
2.  Interest on (1) at
10%                     0.0      1.0      2.5     2.3
3.  Disbursed during year 10.0    15.0    20.0         5.0     50.0
K.  Interest on (3) at
5%                      0.5      0.8      1.0     0.2
5.  'IJndisbursed at end
of year                L0.C    25.0       5.o     0.0
6.  Connitment fee on (3)
at 0.38% and (5') at
0.75%                   o.L!     0.3      0.2     0.1
Total Interest and
fee                     0.9      2.1      3.7      2.6      9.3
Of which:  World Bank  0.8       1.8      3.1     2.2       7.9
Government  0.1      0.3      0.6      0.L       1.
i/  8.5% to World Bank and 1 5% Guarsntee Fee to Government.
2/ A small amount, about Um.0i million may be disbursed during the period July
1979 through December MOt>0 for the foreign engineering services.  This has beer
ignored in the calculation of the interest during construction but is shown in
Table 5-9.
Industrial Pro4ects Department
April 12, 1976



Table 5-
Page 62
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION - EXPORT AND OTHER FOREIGN LOANS
A.  Loan Amount and Terms
Amount               -   US$55 million excluding interest during
construction.
Interest             -   10% annually on disbursed and outstanding
amount.
Commitment Fee       -   1.0% annually on undisbursed amount.        2/
Maturity             -   8 years including 3 years of grace period.-
Repayment            -   10 equal semi-annual payments including
interest starting July 1, 1980.
B.   Loan Disbursement Schedule
Year              % Disbursed     Amount (US$ million)
1977                 35               19.2
1978                 55               30.3
1979 (< year)       10                5.5
Total :       100              55.
C.  Interest During Construction (in US$ million)
1977    1978    1979     Total
1. Total outstanding at
start of year                  0.0    19.2    49.5
2.  Interest on (1) at 10%         0.0      1.9     5.0
3.  Disbursed during year          19.2    30.3     5.5     55.0
4.  Interest on (3) at 5%           1.0     1.5     0.3
5. Undisbursed at end of year    35.8       5.5     0.0
6. Commitment fee on (3) at
0.5% and (5) at 1.0%           0.5      0.2      -
7.  Total interest and fee         1.5      3.6     5.3     l0.h
Total interest and fees during construction:  US$ 10.L million
1/ Export loans from supplying countries to be effective at beginning
of 1977 to finance 80% of the cost of equipment purchased with the
loan.
2/ The grace period would be equivalent to four years since the effectiveness
is assumed to be at the start of 1977, one year after the start of implemen-
tation or PETROBRAS will pre-finance initial payments and will be reimbursed
when loans become effective.
Industrial Projects Department
January 22, 1976



Table 5-7
Page 63
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
C
PROCUREKENT AND ESTTDATED USE OF FUNDS
World           BNDE/
Bank    Export  Other       Equit-w
Items and Procurement Procedure    Loan    Loans   Loans-/ (PETRORRS)    Total
A. Equipment, Supplies & Spares
Direct Imports:
-  ICB                        26.0      -       -        -           26.0
- International Shopping      10.4      -       -        -           10.4
- Tied Sources                  -   35.0       1.7      3.4          40.1
0  Local Purchases                   -      -    L1.6       31.4          73-Qi/
/  ~  Sub-total (A)              36.)1  35.0     3.3     3.819.5
B.  Land and Civil Works               -      -    13.4       6.4           19.8
C. Services3J                       13.6      -       -      51.9           65.5
D. Working Capital                     -      -       -      13.4           13.h
E. Interest during Construction        -      -     18.3      5.4.          23.7
Total                     50-   35.0    75.0    111.9          271.9
1/ Other loans refer to foreign bank loans or to possible co-financing
arrangements.  Should the other foreign loans not materialize,
PETROBRAS will provide the US$20 million equivalent.
2/ Including US$4.5 million for import duties (escalated).
3/ Includes licenses, engineering, erection, supervision and pre-operating
expenses.
Industrial Projects Department
April 12, 1976



Page 6h
BRAZIL - ARATDARIA FERTILZZR PROJECT
Table 5-8
DISBlRSEalT AND FINANCING SCHEDULE
A.  Capital Cost Disbursement Schedule
1976      1977    1978       1979       Total
1. Direct Imports
Equipment                                7.7       26.8    38.2        3.8       76.5
Engineering & Supervision Services       3.9        3.9     3.9        1.9       13.6
Interest during construction             0.3        3.3     6.7        7.5       18.3
Sub-Total                    12.4       34.0    48.8       13.2      108.4
2.  Localy-SuMied
Equipment -/                             7.3       15.3    22.8       27.6       73.0
Civil works & erection                   5.4       16.2    21.6       10.8       54.0
Services                                 5.(        5.0     5.0        2.7       17.7
Working Capftal                           -          -        -                  =X:4
Interest during construction             0.3        1.1     2.3        1.7        5.4
Total locally supplied       18.(i      37.6    51.7       56.2      163.5
3.  Total Disbursements                      30.t,      71.6   100.5       69.4      271.9
B.  Financing Sources
1. Direct Foreign Exchange Costs
World Bank loan                         10.C       15.0    20.0        5.0       50.0
Bilateral & other loans                  0.C       19.2    30.3        5.5       55.0
Equity               2/                  o.C        0.0     0.0        3.4        3.4
PETROBRAS (advances)-                    2.4       (0.2)   (1.5)      (0.7)       0.0
Sub-Total                    12.4       34.0    48.8       13.2      108.4
2. Indirect Foreign Exchange &
Local Currency
BNDE loan                                8.3       19.2    22.0        5.5       55.0
Equity                                   9.7       18.4    29.7       50.7      108.5
Sub-Total                    18.0       37.6    51.7       56.2      163.5
3. Total Sources                             30.4       71.6   100.5       69.4      271.9
1/ Includes $4.5 million in duties.
2/  PETROBRAS intends to negotiate the foreign commercial bank loans towards the end of
1976. Any foreign exchange disbursement before these loans are effective will be
advanced by PETROBRAS.
Table 5-9
ESTI1;D QUARERLY DUISBSESUT OF SANK LOAN
Calender Year/Quarter         Disbursed Ligeriod                 1       Disbursement
Umi1on          U60Ji   on
1976                I                    -                    -
III                    9-'                  5                    10
IV                    5                   lo                    20
1977                I                    2                   12                    25
II                    3                   15                    30
III                    5                   20                    40
IV                    5                   25                    50
1978                I                    5                   30                    60
II                    5                   35                    70
III                    5                   40                    80
IV                   5                    It5                  90
1979                I                    2                   47
II                   2                    h9                    96
July 1979-Dec.'80                        1                    50                  100
I/ Including retroactive financing.
Industrial Projects Department
April 12, 1976



- 65 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Operating Costs and Financial Forecasts
6.01      The factory is expected to start commercial operations by July
1979 starting at a 50% capacity utilization and gradually reaching 90% by
1981. A 12-year operating life is used in the analysis and the depreciation
schedLle is showa in Table 6-1. Projected mid-1979 ex-factory product and
raw material prices (Table 6-2) and the production cost structure estimated
for mid-1979 (Table 6-3) expressed in constant 1975 US dollars, are used
throughout the 12-year operating life. The 1979 ex-factory price of urea is
assumed to be US$195/ton (bagged) 1/, some 10% less than the full cost of
imports delivered to the market area (the economic price) and about US$5 to
10/ton less than the January 1976 level. The ammonia and the by-product
sulphur prices are US$180/ton and US$85/ton respectively, equal to the econo-
mic price on the assumption that no import duty would be levied on raw mate-
rials. The projected 1979 ammonia ex-factory price is lower than the January
1976 level of about US$245/ton. The assumed level of ex-factory price would
place the project's output at a favorable competitive position relative to
imports and make available lower cost nitrogen fertilizer to the farmers.
6.02      There is a very limited present or future market for the high
sulphur heavy residue (HSHR) from the Araucaria refinery other than as feed-
stock for the proposed project. However, the residue could be blended with
lighter petroleum fractions to upgrade it to heavy fuel oil specifications.
Although the feedstock is inferior to fuel oil, the financial analysis assumes
that it will be priced at the same level as fuel oil which currently (January
1976) sells for about US$35/ton, about one-third the price of naphtha. The
analysis further assumes that the domestic fuel oil price will increase
slightly in real terms, to US$40/ton in constant 1975 US dollars by 1979.
6.03      Feedstock and fuel will account for some one-third of the annual
production cost and depreciation charges about another one-third as shown
in Table 6-3 and summarized below:
1/   Bulk urea price would be US$15 less per ton.



- 66 -
Acaucaria - Production Cost Estimate /1
(In constant 1975 US Dollars)
US$ Per ton                Annual Cost
Ammonia      Urea (bulk)    US$ Million    %
Variable Costs
Feedstock & Fuel                46.8          27.1              16.7        33
Chemicals and Utilities          6.5            6.7              3.6         7
Sub-Total                  53.3          33.8             20.3        40
Fixed Costs
Depreciation                    36.7          28.6              16.3        32
Maintenance, Labor & Others   31.0             24.2             13.8        28
Sub-Total                  67.,          52.8             30.1        60
Total Cost Before Interest           121.C0         86.6             50.4       100
/1   At 90% capacity utilization.  Urea bagging cost would add another
US$15/ton of urea.
6.04      Brazil's accounting procedures and income tax laws allow for an
annual revaluation of fixed assets as well as current assets and liabilities
on the basis of monetary correction factors closely linked to the domestic
inflation rates. In addition most local medium and long-term loans are also
subject to monetary adjustment or indexing, thus effectively protecting the
balance sheet value of the fixed assets and local loans from being eroded by
local inflation. This indexing procedure has two major effects on the finan-
cial projections. Firstly, depreciation charges, on a straight line basis
for example, remain constant in real terms and are computed on the value of
the fixed assets expressed in real terms. In current terms, depreciation
charges will grow at the same rate as the monetary correction factor, which is
assumed to equal the inflation rate. 1/. This indexing of the depreciation
charges increases the cash flow (in current terms) and improves the debt ser-
vice coverage ratio of the enterprise. The second effect is in the balance
sheet which now reflects inflated values for both assets and liabilities. The
monetary adjustments to the fixed assets in the asset side of the balance
sheet is partly matched by the adjustment to the indexed local loans and the
revaluation of foreign loans due to changes in the foreign exchange rate if
any, with the remainder entered as an adjustment to equity. Since the BNDE
loan represents less than 30% of the fixed asset value at the start of pro-
duction, a larger proportion of the monetary adjustments to the fixed assets
is added to equity thereby causing the debt/equity ratio to improve even more
rapidly than the retained earnings woulc imply.
6.05      The debt service schedules for the long-term debts are shown in
Tables 6-4 through 6-6. A forecast of the income and cash flow statements



- 67 -
and the balance sheet, expressed in current US dollars, with both costs and
revenues escalated at the assumed international inflation rates (Table 5-2)
are shown in Tables 6-7 and 6-8 respectively. These forecasts are summarized
on the following page.
6.06      The financial forecast indicates a strong financial situation for
the subsidiary, with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 2.5 and the
capacity to distribute dividends by 1980. The average dividend payment for
the more successful Brazilian firms range from 7-12% of the equity (revalued
for monetary adjustments) with PETROBRAS paying about 12% normally. The fore-
casts assume a dividend payment equivalent to 10% of the equity at the start
of the year. Even with this level of dividend rate, the enterprise is still
expected to accumulate substantial funds for reinvestments. The debt equity
ratio improves rapidly from 56:44 in 1979 to 31:69 by 1982. Finally, the
profit and cash breakeven points do not exceed 45% and 40% respectively
(Tables 6-7).
B.   Financial Rate of Return
6.07      The cash flows for the financial rate of return are expressed in
constant 1975 US dollars with interest during construction eliminated from
the capital costs (Table 6-9). The rate of return is very satisfactory, 18%
after income taxes and 22% before taxes and reflects the economies of scale
of a large ammonia/urea complex, the advantages of using a cheaper feedstock
which fully offsets the higher-capital cost relative to a naphtha-based plant
and the favorable fiscal policies as indicated by the moderate income tax
liabilities. Sensitivity tests (Table 6-10) show that even under moderately
adverse conditions, such as a 10% increase in capital costs coupled with a 5%
reduction in ex-factory prices, or a 20% increase in operating costs in con-
junction with a 5% reduction in ex-factory prices, the after tax rate of re-
turn will still exceed 14%.
C.   Major Risks
6.08      The project does not face any major management problems since
PETROBRAS and the project team it proposes to use are experienced in project
implementation. There are also no major engineering and technological risks
as the engineering contractors are experienced in the design and installation
of similar plants. However, there are some operating and commercial risks
that must be avoided. The project has only one source of feedstock -- the ad-
jacent refinery as the raw material is not easily transported. PETROBRAS and
BRASFERTIL have agreed to enter into a long-term supply contract, including
1/   The financial projections are expressed in US dollars using international
inflation rates as the monetary correction factor on the assumption that
the difference between the international and the domestic inflation
rates will be accounted for by changes in the foreign exchange rate.
For income tax purposes, any increase in the principal repayments for
foreign loans due to changes in the exchange rate can also be deducted
from income but this tax benefit has not been utilized in the financial
forecast for the project.



- 68 -
Araucaria - Summary of Projected Financial Statements
(In Millions of Current US Dollars)
1979       1980        1981        1982
(1/ 2 Yeiar)
Capacity Utilization                  50,'       75%        90%         90%
Income & Cashflow
Statements
for Year
Fertilizer Revenue                  26.9      123.9       159.5      170.2
Operating & Financial
Charges (Net)                     23.9       83.2        93.1       97.0
Income Taxes (30%)                   0.9       12.2        19.9       22.0
Net Profit                        2.1       28.5        46.5       51.2
Debt Service                      -         22.0        33.1       32.2
Debt Service
Coverage Ratio                   -          3.0         2.6        2.8
Dividends                         -         12.8        16.1       20.6
Balance Sheet as of
Dec. 31
Current Assets                      22.9       33.1        34.3       35.7
Net Fixed Assets                   274.7      271.1       264.3      253.7
Other Investments/
Surplus Cash                       5.3       27.3        62.3       98.7
Current Liabilities                 10.0       22.1        22.9       23.8
Long-Term Loans                    164.8      148.6       131.8      114.1
Equity                             128.1      160.8       206.2      250.2
Total Assets or
Liabilities                      302.9      331.5       360.9      388.1
Current Ratio                        2.3        1.5          1.5        1.5
Debt Equity Ratio                   56:44      48:52        39:61      31:69
Breakdown Capacity
Utilization (%)
Profit Breakeven                     -         45          44          42
Cash Breakeven                       -         33          40          38
Net Profit as % of
Equity                               1.6       17.7        22.6       20.5



- 69 -
the pricing arrangement, for the feedstock, the fuel and utilities to be
provided by the refinery. The Government has also agreed not to take any
action with regard to the pricing of the feedstock, ammonia and urea that
would prevent the subsidiary from making a reasonable return on invest-
ment under efficient operating levels. This more specific covenant is in
addition to the general Government policy towards the industry (para. 6.10).
6.09      The commercial risks faced by the project relate to marketing and
to a lesser extent to product pricing. The project's designed output, 292,000
TPY nitrogen, represents about 53% of the projected 1980 market of 550,000
TPY N in the Center. The present consumption in the Center is only 165,000 TPY
N. Thus, the present marketing system would have to be expanded to handle
this increased requirement. In addition, the product mix will change greatly.
Urea accounts for only 19% of the present market compared to about 60% of
the 1980 market. Consequently, any deficiency in the marketing and distribu-
tion system which could depress consumption, such as inadequate storage, blend-
ing, transport, market development, dealer network or credit facilities would
affect a major portion of the project's output and could have adverse operat-
ing and financial implications. As mentioned earlier (para 2.29), the private
sector has so far handled the distribution of fertilizers. But by 1980 demand
is expected to be more than twice the 1975 level in the project's market area
and unless potential bottlenecks in the marketing system are identified and
planned for, BRASFERTIL may have difficulty in selling all its designed output.
The proposed marketing study (para 2.42) will identify potential distribution
or consumption problems and would suggest actions that will reduce the commer-
cial risks faced by the project.
D.   Financial Covenants
6.10      Product pricing presents a less serious risk as the Government has
so far maintained and intends to continue a policy of allowing manufacturers
to earn a reasonable return by permitting prices to rise in line with in-
creases in production costs. Since the project enjoys economies of scale and
would be one of the most economic producers, pricing will not be a major risk.
Nonetheless, agreement has been reached with the Government that it will conti-
nue to follow a policy of allowing efficient fertilizers producers to earn a
reasonable return on investment.
6.11      To ensure that project implementation will not be delayed, PETROBRAS
will provide equity funds and will request BNDE and other foreign banks for
loans as indicated in the financing plan in para 5.09. Furthermore, PETROBRAS
will provide, if necessary, additional funds to complete the project (para.
5.13). In addition, the Government has agreed that sufficient funds will be
available and the necessary governmental approvals will be expeditiously
granted to obtain or import the goods and services required by the project.
Following project completion, BRASFERTIL will be required to follow prudent
financial practices, including the following: (i) maintain a debt:equity
ratio of 60:40 or better (ii) maintain a current ratio of 1.2:1.0, (iii) not
incur any long-term debt if its debt service coverage ratio will fall below



- 70 -
1.5; and (iv) limit its dividend distribution (except for dividends on pre-
ferred shares), or prepayment of any debt if such action would cause its
current ratio to fall below 1.5. The Company's accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Table 6-1/6-2
Page 71
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
Table 6-1
DEPRECIATION SCHEDULE
-  -----In US$ Million--------------
In Constant 197b US$   At Acquisitiou Cost
Total Financing Required          212.5--'                 271.9
lon-Depreciable Assets: 2/
- Land and ImRrovements-            1.1                      1.2
-  Spare Parts~/                    5.                       7-0
-  Permanent 1trking Capital        9.5                     13.4
Sub-Total                   h                     21.6
Depreciable Assets                196.1                    250.3
Annual Depreciation:
- Straight Line, 12 Years         16.34                    20.86
1/ Derived from the disbursement schedule of Table 5-8 and the price
deflators from Table 6-.
2/ From Table 5-1 (base cost plus physical contingencies if any, at end
of 1975 prices, deflated to constant or mid-1975 dollars).
Table 6-2
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.      Ex-Factory Product Prices in Constant 1975 MI
1 .   Urea (10% less than the economic price)'/: US$180/ton 2Yulk)
2    4Anmonia (equal to the economic price) :   US$180/ton_
3.   Sulphur (equal to the economic price):   US$85/ton
B.      Raw Material Prices in Constant 1975 US$
1.   Feedstock (high sulphur heavy residue) :  US$4O/ton-/
2.   Fael (high sulphur heavy fuel oil):        US$40/ton
V 10% less on a bulk basis since most urea imports would be in bulk for
blending purposes. The January 1976 ex-factory price of urea is
US$200-205/ton (bagged).
2/ Assuming no import duty on raw materials and that the ex-factory price is
set to be competitive with imports.
3/ There is no present market for high sulphur heavy residue (HSHR). Heavy
fuel oil however, is presently (January 1976) sold for US$35/ton, about
one-third the price of naphtha. It is -expected that fuel oil price will
increase slightly to US$40/ton in constant 1975 dollars and that the
HSHR, although inferior to fuel oil, will be priced at the same level
as fuel oil.
Industrial Projects Department
January 26, 1976



Table 6-3
Page 72
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
PRODIUCTION COST ESTIMATE AT 907 CAPACITY UTILIZATION-
(Irc Constant 1975 US$)
--Financial Costs-----    -------Economic Cost-------
Units/Ton   Financial Price  Economic Price    US$ Per Ton        US$ Million   US$ Per Ton        US$ Million
1.  Variable Costs                     Unit  of Product       US$/Unit          US$/Unit        Asm,nia  Urea    Per Year       Amonia   Urea    Per Year
A. Ammonia             2/
- Feedstock (USHR)-           lns       0.80            40.00            50.00          32.00               11.40        40.00               14.26
- Fuel (HSHFO)I               Tans      0.37            40.00            65.00          14.80                5.27        24.05                8.57
- Chemicals and Catalysts       -          -              _                _             1.82                0.65         1.82                0.65
- Utilities: Power            KwH     169.50             0.02             0.02           3.39                1.21         3.39                1.21
Boiler Feed
Water          M          9.16             0.10             0.10          0.92                0.33         0.92                0.33
Cooling          3
Water          M        400.00             0.01             0.01          4.00                 1.42        4.00                1.42
- Less: By-Product                            4/
Sulphur                  'Zons     0.043           85.00            85.0           (3.66)              (1.30)       (3.66)              (1.30)
53.27               18.98       70.52               25.14
B. Urea (Bulk)
- Ammsonia (at variable
cost)                  tons      0.58            53.27            70.52                   30.90        -            -      40.90        -
- Chemicals and Catalysts       -          -              -                -                       1.00      0.45                  1.00       0.45
- Utilities: Power            KwH      45.2              0.02             0.02                    0.90       0.40                  0.90       0.40
Boiler Feed
Water         M3         1.84             0.10             0.10                    0.18      0.08                   0.18      0.08
Cooling
Waiter        M         80.00             0.01             0.01                   0.80       0.36                   0.80      0.36
Urea Variable Coat5/                                                                            33.78        1.29                 43.78       1.29
C.  Total Variable Cost                                                                     53.27   33.78       20.27        70.52    43.78      26.43
II. Annual Fixed CostAs
Salaries and Overhead7/                                                                 11.00    8.58        4.90        11.00     8.58       4.90
Maintenance Materials8/                                                                 14.37   11.20        6.40        14.37    11.20       6.40
Depreciation (in
constant 1975 US$)                                                                    36.67    28.63      16.34          -        -          -
9/
Others-                                                                                  5.61      4.37      2.50         5.61     4.37       2.50
Total Fixed Costs                                                                     67.65    52.78      30.14        30.98    24.15      13.8
III. Total Production Cost Before                                                                                                      IO/      in/
Interest Charges                                                                           120.92    86.56      50.41       101.50    67.93      40.23
1/ Ammonia output is 356,400 TPY of which 98,010 TPY is surplus and sold.  Urea output is 445,500 TfY.  Capacity (100%) is 330 operating days/year.
2/ High Sulphur Heavy Residue from the refinery.
3/ High Sulfur Heavy Fuel Oil.
4/ Based on 6% sulphur content and 90% recovery.
5/  Bulk.  Bagging costs would be US$15/ton of urea.
6/  80% of the annual fixed costs is allocated to the aeonia unit and 207. to the urea unit.
7/ The project is expected to have the following employment at 90% capacity output: Number of Emplovees
a) Operating Directors             3
b) Administrative Staff          156
c) Technical Staff               112
d) Factory staff                 113
Total                     384
8/ 5% of the equipment and materials capital cost (base cost estimate plus physical contingencies).
9/ 1% of the total financing required excluding price escalation.
T/The foreign exchange component is US$71.6/ton of armonia and US$43.2/ton of urea to cover 100% of the feedstock and fuel, 25% of the chemicals
and 50% of the maintenance costs.
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE - BNDE LOAN
(In US$ Million)
---In Constant 1975 US$ ------------                                                  -------------In Current US$-----------------
Repayment                     Amount   1/   Interl7t    Principal   Total Debt    Compounded Inflation   3/  Amount            Interest   Principal    Total Debt
Number          Date       Outstanding-      Pue -       Repayment    Service         Factor (mid-1975=1.00)  Outstanding    Due         Repayment      Service
0          Jan. 1,1980        46.60         0.93             -          0.93                 1.47                  68.50        1.37          -           1.37
1          July 1,1980       46.60          0.93           2.12         3.05                 1.52                 70.83         1.41        3.22         4.63
2          Jan. 1,1981       44.48          0.89           2.12         3.01                 1.57                  69.83        1.40        3.33         4.73
3          July 1,1981       42.36          0.85           2.12         2.97                 1.63                  69.05        1.39        3.46         4.85
4          Jan. 1,1982        40.24         0.80           2.12         2.92                 1.68                  67.60        1.34         3.56        4.90
5          July 1,1982        38.12         0.76           2.12         2.88                 1.74                  66.33        1.32         3.69        5.01
6          Jan. 1,1983       36.00          0.72           2.12         2.84                 1.80                  64.80        1.30         3.82        5.12
7          July 1,1983        33.38         0.68           2.12         2.80                 1.87                  63.36        1.27         3.96        5.23
8          Jan. 1,1984        31.76         0.64           2.12         2.76                  1.93                 61.30        1.24         4.09        5.33
9          July 1,1984        29.64         0.59           2.12         2.71                 2.00                  59.28        1.18         4.24        5.42
10          Jan. 1,1985       27.52          0.55           2.12         2.67                 2.07                  56.97        1.14        4.39         5.53
11          July 1,1985       25.40          0.51           2.12         2.63                 2.14                  54.36        1.09         4.54        5.63
12          Jan. 1,1986       22.28          0.47           2.12         2.59                 2.22                  51.68        1.04        4.71         5.75
13          July 1,1986       21.16          0.43           2.12         2.55                 2.27                  48.03        0.98         4.81         5.79
14          Jan. 1,1987        19.04         0.38           2.12         2.50                 2.33                  44.36        0.89         4.94         5.83
15          July 1,1987        16.92         0.34           2.12         2.46                 2.39                  40.44        0.81         5.07         5.88
16          Jan. 1,1988        14.80         0.30           2.12         2.42                 2.45                  36.26        0.74         5.19         5.93
17          July 1,1988        12.68         0.25           2.12         2.37                  2.51                 31.83        0.63         5.32         5.95
18          Jan. 1,1989        10.56         0.21           2.12         2.33                  2.57                 27.14        0.54         5.45         5.99
19          July 1,1989         8.44         0.17           2.12         2.29                  2.64                 22.28        0.45         5.60         6.05
20          Jan. 1,1990         6.32          0.13           2.12        2.25                  2.70                 17.06        0.35         5.72         6.07
21          July 1,1990         4.20          0.08           2.12        2.20                  2.77                 11.63        0.22         5.87         6.09
22          Jan. 1,1991         2.08          0.04           2.08        2.12                  2.84                  5.91        0.11         5.91         6.02
TOTAL                           11.65          46.6         58.25                                                  22.21       100.89       123.10
o -
a1
11  Outstanding before payment of principal due that date.  Initial amount of US$46.6 million taken from Table 5-4.
2/  Annual rate of 4%.  Interest charges are for the preceding six months.
3/  Inflation rates for 1975 through 1985 are taken from Table 5-2.  5% annual inflation rate is assumed from 1986 onwards.
Industrial Projects Department
January 26, 1976



Table 6-5
Page 7L
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE - WORLD BANK LOAN
(In miliions ot US Dollars)
Interest Dues/
Repayment                      Amount   1/   World            Govern-      Principal    Total Debt
Number         Date         Outstanding-    Bank            ment          Repayment       Service3/
C.          Feb.15, 1980      50.0        , 2.12             0.38           -           2.50
0.         Au^.15, 1980       50.0           2.12            0.38           -           2.50
1.         Feb.15, 1981       50.0           2.12            0.38         1.42          3.92
2.         Aug.15, 1981       48.58          2.06            0.36         1.48          3.90
3.         Feb.15, 1982       47.10          2.00            0.35         1.54          3.89
4.         Aug.15, 1982       45.56           1.94           0.34         1.60          3.88
5.          Feb.15, 1983      43.96           1.86           0.33         1.68          3.87
6.         Aug.15, 1983       42.28          1.80            0.32         1.74          3.86
7.         Feb.15, 1984       40.54          1.72            0.30         1.82          3.84
8.         Aug.15, 1984       38.72           1.64           0.29         1.90          3.83
9.          Feb.15, 1985      36.82          1.56            0.28         1.98          3.82
10.         Aug.15, 1985       34.84           1.48           0.26         2.06          3.80
11.          Feb.15, 1986      32.78           1.39           0.25         2.15          3.79
12.         Aug.15, 1986       30.63          1.30            0.23         2.24          3.77
13.         Feb.15, 1987       28.39          1.20            0.21         2.34          3.75
14.         Aug.15, 1987       26.05          1.10            0.20         2.44          3.74
15.         Feb.15, 1988       23.61          1.00            0.18         2.54          3.72
16.         Aug.15, 1988       21.07          0.90            0.16         2.64          3.70
17.          Feb.15, 1989      18.43          0.78            0.14         2.76          3.68
18.         Aug.15, 1989       15.67          0.66            0.12         2.88          3.66
19.         Feb.15, 1990       12.79          0.54            0.10         3.00          3.64
20.         Aug.15, 1990        9.79          0.41            0.07         3.13          3.61
21.          Feb.15, 1991       6.66           0.28           0.05         3.26          3.59
22.         Aug.15, 1991        3.40          0.14            0.03         3.40          3.57
TOTAL                                                         50.0
1/ Outstanding before payment of principal due that date.
2/ Annual rate of 8.5% to the World Bank and 1.=-57ethe-Government.  Interest is
for the preceding six month period.
3/ The debt service payable to the Bank is US$3.54 million semi-annually starting
February 15, 1981
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



Table 6-6
Page 75
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE - BILATERAL AND OTHER FOREIGN LOANS
(In millions of US Dollars)
Repayment                    Amount  1      Interesi/      Principal   Total Debt
Number        Date       Outstanding-         Due -       Repayment    Service
O0         Jan. 1,1980       55.0          2.75            -          2.75
1.         July 1,1980      55.0           2.75           5.5         8.25
2.         Jan. 1,1981      49.5           2.48           5.5         7.98
3.         July 1,1981      44.0           2.20           5.5         7.70
4.         Jan. 1,1982       38.5          1.92           5.5         7.42
5.         July 1,1982       33.0          1.65           5.5         7.15
6.         Jan. 1,1983       27.5          1.38           5.5         6.88
7.         July 1,1983       22.0          1.10           5.5         6.60
8.         Jan. 1,1984       16.5          0.82           5.5         6.32
9.         July 1,1984       1l.Q          0.55           5.5         6.05
10.         Jan. 1,1985        5.5          0.28           5.5         5.78
TOTAL                                        55.0
11 Outstanding before principal repayment due that date.
2/ At annual rate of 10%. Interest is for the preceding six-month period.
Industrial Projects Department
January 26, 1976



Table 6-7
Page76
BRAZIL - ARAPCARlA FERTILIZER PROJECT
INCOME AND CASHFLOW FORECASTS
(In Million of Current US Dollars)>
1976           1977           1978           1979           1980            1981           1982           1983
PRODUCTION DATA                                                                           50             75              90             90             90
Units Sold (Tons)  Urea                   -                                          83750         371250         445500          445500         445500
A-emonia                            _                           22225           81675          98010          98010           98010
INCOME STATEZ41T FOR YEAS
ENDING DEC.31-                                                            _946                                                      17022          1982947
Fertilizer Revenue                                                                   26 90         123.92          159417.28.4
Lcsr: Cos  of Sal-s23.962'/                                                           71.49          82.17          87.71           94.27
Less: Cost of Sales
Interest on Lng Term Debt          -              -              .              _             13.28          12.39          10.86           9.36
Revaluation of Current Assets             -              -              -              -             1.56            1.56           1.55           1.83
Less: Income Taxes (30%)                                 -              -             0.88          12.21          19.94           21.96          24.34
Net Profit                                      -              -             2.06          28.50           46.52          51,24          56.80
CASIFLOW STATEMENT FOR YEAR
ENDING DEC.31
Net Profit                                               -              -             2.06          28.50           46.52          51.24          56.80
Depreciation                              -                             -            11.52          24.84          26.63           28.43          30.56
Interest on Long-Term Debt               -              -              -              -            13.28           12.39          10.86           9.36
Increase in Equity                      9.7            18.4           29.7           54.1             -               -              -
Increase in Long-Term Debt             20.7            53.2           70.8           15.3             _-                             -
Total Sources                  30.4           71.6           100.5          82.98           66.62          85.54          90.53          96.72
Debt Services                             -                             -              -            22.00          33.08           32.25          31.56
Increase in Current Assets (Net)          -              -              -            21.65          10.07           1.10            1.27           1.33
Increase in Fixed Assets & Spares    30.4              71,6          100.5           56.0             -
Increase in Other Investments/
SurplusCsh                                     -      -               -             5.33          21.73          35.28          36.38           38.80
Dividends4-                               -                             -              -            12.82           16.08          20.63          25.03
Total Uses                     30.4           71.6          100.5           82.98           66.62          85.54          90.53          96.72
Debt Service Coverage Ratio               -              -              -                            3.0             2.6            2.8            3.1
Breakeven Capacity Utilization(%)
Profit Breakeven                                                                                   45             44              42             41
Cash Breakeven                          -              -                             -             33             40              38             36
1/  Compound inflation factors as of July 1 for each year (shown xn Table 6-4) are used to escalate values from constant 1975 terms to current terms.
2/  based on bulk sales price of US$180/ton of urea and US$180/ton of aemoonia.  Production costs are also based on bulk urea.  1979 production is
for one-half year.
3/  Includes $0.5 million interest on short-term debt.
4/ Assumed to be 10% of the previous years' ending equity startirg 1980.
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



BRAZIL - AAAUCARIA FEUTILIZER POT E77
Bi1ANCE SHEET FORECASTS
(In Millions of Currant US Dollars)
1976          1977           1978          1979           1980           1981           1982          1963
BALANCE SHEET AS OF DEC.31
CURRENT ASSETS
Minimsum Operating Cash                 --                           -             1.69          10,20           9,74          9.46           8.94
Accounts Receivable                     -              -              -           14.24          15.35          16.46         17.57          18.89
Finished Goods Inventory                -              -             -             5.72           6.17           6.62          7.06           7.59
Raw Material Inventory                  -              -             -             1.27           1.37           1.47          1.57           1.68
Total Current Assets                 -             -              -            22.92          33.09          34.29         35.66
FIXED ASSETS AND SPARES AT COST         30.40         102.00        202.50         258.5          258.5          258.5         258.5          258.5
Plus: Cumulative Revaluation of
Fixed Assets                      -             -              -            27.73         50.06          72.39          94.72         121.11
Less: Cumulative Depreciation
(Revalued)                        -             -              -            11.52         37.26          66.59          99.51         137.50
Net Fixed Assets                   30.40        102.00         202.50         274.71         271.30        264.30         253.71         2U.11
OTHER INVESTMENTS (AT COST)/
SURPLUS CASH                              -              -             -             5.33          27.06          62.34          98.72        137.52
Total Assets                       30.40        102.00         202.50         302.96         331.45        360.93         388.09         416.73
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                        -              -              -            1.27           1.37           1.47           1.57          1.68
Current Portion of Long Term Debt       -              -             -             8.72          20.69          21.39          22.20         23.05
Total Current Liabilities            -              -             -             9.99          22.06          22.86         23.77          24.7
LONG TERM DEBT                          20.7           73.90        144.70         151.28         130.59        109.20          87.00          63.95
Plus: Monetary Adjustment on
BNDE Loan                         -             -              -            13.50          18.05         22.61          27.06          31.34
Total Debt                         20.7           73.90        144.70         164.78         148.64         131.81          114.06        95.29
PAID-IN CAPITAL                          9.70          28.10         57.80         111.90         111.90         111.90         111.90        111.90
Plus: Retained Earnings                 -              -              -            2.06          17.74          48.18          78.79         110.56
Net Revaluation of Fixed
Assets and Loans                -             -              -            14.23          31.11         46.18          59.57          74.25
Total Equity                        9.70         2S.10          57.80         128.19         160.75         206.26         250.26        296.71
Total Liabilities                  30.40         102.00        202.50         302.96         331.45         360.93         388.09        416.73
CURRENT RATIO                             -              -             -             2.3            1.5            1.5            1.5           1.5
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                       68:32          72:28          71:29         56:44          48:52          39:61          31:69          24:76
NET PROFIT AS % OF EQUITY
NETPROIT   INERET %-  -      -             1.6           17.7          22.6           20.5           19.1
NET PROFIT & INTEERSTltS %
OF INVESTED CAPITAL-                    -                             -             0.7          13.7           19.7           21.5           23.7
1/ Excludes other investments.
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



Table 6-9
bRAZIL - ARAIEhIL FlMIIZIR                                                         age 7T
Table 6-9
CAS'YLOW FOR FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
In Millions of Current US $                                        ,    Conpsounded       In Millions of Constant 1975 US S
Capital       Fertilizer    Depreciation                   Other Costs                  After T '    Inflation Factor    After Tax            Before Tax
yeer      Costs  I/      Revenue    Net Revaluation, Interest           (Net)       Income Taxes  Cashflov(Net)  (Mid-1975-1.00C         Cashflow       Cachflow
1(1976). 29.30           -             _              _              _              _             (29.30)         1.11                  (26.40)         (26.40)
2        67.20           _                                                                        (67.20)         1.21                  (55.54)        (55.54)
3        91.50           _      -                      -                            -             (91.50)         1.31                  (69.85)        (69.85)
4        60.20          26.90          11.52          -             12.44           0.88          (46.62)         1.41                  (33.06)         (32.44)
5          -           123.92          23.28          13.28         46.65          12.21           65.06          1.52                   42.80          50.84
6          _           159.46          25.07         12.39          55,54          19.94           83.98          1.63                  51.52           63.76
7          -           170.22          26.88         10.86          59.28          21.96           88.98          1.74                  51.1l           63.76
8          _           182.94          28.73          9.36          63.71          24.34           94.89          1.87                   50.11t         63.76
9                      195.66          31,02          7.74          68.14          26.63          100.89          2.00                  50.74            63.76
10                      209.36          33,18          6.09          72.91          29.15          107.30          2.14                  50.14            63.76
11                      222.07          35.43          5.19          77.34          31.23          113.50          2.27                   50.00           63.76
12          -           233.8l          37.51          4.41          91.43          33.14          119.24          2.39                   49.             6376
13          -           245.55          39.47           3.61         85.52          35.08          I=4-5,          2.51                   49.78           63.76
14          -           258.27          41.48          2.69          89.94          37.25          131.08          2.64                   49.65           63.76
15          -    3/    270.99           43.60           1.69         94.37          39.40          137.22          2.77                   49.54           63.76
16(  yaarH)(47.70)-     142.34          22.28          0.61          49.Y7          20.96          119.51          2.91                  41.07            48.27
Financial Rate of Return After Taxes...17.8%
Financial Rate of  Return Before  Taxes    .          .. 22.2%
1/ Eccluding interest during construction and is taken from Table 5-8.
2/ (Fertilizer Revenue -  Other Costs (Net) - Income Taxes - Capital Costs).
3/ Non-depreciable ..seta taken from Table 6-2 (US $16.4 million in constant 1975 dollars).
Table 6-10
SENSITIVITY TESTS ON FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN AFTER TAXE. 
Base 1
Ex-Factory Prices             - 10,       - 5S         as-9e       5%          10%
Costs
(a)  Base Case                     15.0        16.4        17.8       19.2        20.4
(b)  Capital Costs Up 10%          13.6        15.0        16.2       17.6        18.6
(c)  Capital Costs Docn 10% 2/    17.0         18.4        19.8       21.2        22.6
(d)  Operating Costs Up 20% -      13.0        14.4        16.0       17.2        18.6
(e)  Operating Costs Dfown 10%     16.6        18.0        19.2        20.4       21.6
(f)  Before Incone Taxes           18.8        20.6        22,2        23.8       25.4
1/   Urea at US$180/ton (bulk) and ammonia at US$180/ton, in constant 1975 dollars.
2/   Equlvalent to a 40% increase in fuel oil and feedstock cost when all other
Industrial Projects Department
April 13, 1976



- 79 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   World Fertilizer Supply and Economic Prices
7.01      By the end of this decade international fertilizer prices are
expected to stabilize at levels much lower than those reached during 1974 and
early 1975. Urea prices, for example, which were about US$300 per ton (FOB)
during 1974 have actually declined to about US$110-150 per ton by April 1976
due to temporary supply surpluses partly due to the global recession which
reduced the demand for industrial-use ammonia and also partly caused by
depressed agricultural demand which in part was due to the high cost of
fertilizers. But during the operating life of the project, the average urea
FOB price is projected to be about US$160/ton in constant 1975 US dollars
(Table 7-1). Freight and handling charges to the market area are added to
arrive at the economic price of US$215/ton (bagged) 1/ since the project's
output will substitute for imports. The ammonia economic price of US$180/ton
has been derived from the urea price such that on a nutrient basis, the
nitrogen (N) in urea costs twice the N in ammonia.
7.02      An economic price of US$65/ton is used for heavy fuel oil which will
be utilized as fuel by the project. The feedstock, a high sulphur heavy resi-
dual fraction, is not a readily marketable commodity but an economic price of
US$50/ton has been imputed on the basis that the feedstock could be blended
with some lighter petroleum fractions (e.g. kerosene or naphtha with an econo-
mic price of US$105/ton) to upgrade the feedstock up to fuel oil specifica-
tions which would then have an economic price of US$65/ton (Table 7-1). The
feedstock and fuel account for more than half of the economic production cost
as shown below.
1/   The bulk price is US$200/ton.  The economic analysis is based on bulk
output (although the project will have some bagging facility) as most of
the imports are in bulk to be used for blending.



- 80 -
Araucaria - Economic Production Cost /1
(in constant 1975 US$/ton)
Foreign    Domestic
Exchange   Resource    Total
Cost       Cost        Cost      %
Ammonia
Feedstock & Fuel                    64.0         0.0        64.0      63
Others                               7.6        29.9        37.5      37
Total                           71.6        29.9        101.5    100
Urea (Bulk) /2
Feedstock & Fuel                    37.1         0.0        37.1      56
Others                               6.1        24.7        30.8      44
Total                           43.2         24.7        67.9    100
/1   From Table 6-3.
/2   Bagging costs would add another US$15/ton of urea.
B.   Economic Rate of Return
7.03      At 90% capacity utilization, the project will produce 292,000 TPY
of N with an economic value of about US$107 million annually (in constant
1975 US dollars) and the economic rate of return is favorable at 24% (Table
7-2). The return justifies the high priority accorded by the Government to
the project and the fertilizer sector in general. The project's economies of
scale and the use of an inexpensive feedstock, which is possible only for a
project located adjacent to a refinery since the feedstock is not easily
transported in large quantities, account for the high economic rate of return.
Sensitivity analyses (Table 7-3) show that the return would still be about
17% under the following conservative situations: (i) the capital costs in-
crease by 10% and the product (urea and ammonia) prices decrease by 10%, or
(ii) the operating costs increase by 20% and the product prices also decrease
by 10%. The project provides efficient import substitution. At present Brazil
imports about 70% of its total fertilizer consumption at an estimated annual
cost of about US$400 million. Import requirements will grow substantially if
Brazil does not expand domestic production. During the project's production
period, the net foreign exchange savings, before provision for principal and
interest payments on the foreign loans, is estimated at US$65 million annually
in constant 1975 US dollars.



- 81 -
C.   Other Benefits
7.04      The expansion of domestic production will also ensure the timely
supply of fertilizers and reduce Brazil's reliance on cyclical and erratic
international fertilizer supply sources and prices. The country should then
be able to pursue its agricultural production growth targets with more cer-
tainty about the supply of fertilizers. Agriculture, both for domestic con-
sumption and exports, is expected to remain a main component of Brazil's
economy and an important source of growth in economic output. On a regional
basis, the projected economic goals of the Northeast as well as the Center
region, is expected to be largely agriculturally oriented with fertilizer
supply playing a key role.
7.05      The project will provide about 400 jobs in production and an
estimated additional 400 in the subsequent distribution network. During con-
struction the project will employ about 2,000 workers at the peak level plus
provide additional jobs in the engineering and equipment industries (that
have not been quantified).   About 80% of engineering and erection services
and 47% of equipment (in dollar values) will be provided domestically.



Table 7-1
Page 82
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC PRICES OVER THE OPERATING LIFE OF THE PROJECT
A.        Product Prices in Constant 1975 US Dollars
US$/Tpn
1.  Urea (46% N)
FOB Price (bagged)                           160
Freight & Insurance                           25
CIF Price 
Port Handling & Other Charges                 20
Inland Freight                                10
Economic Price (bagged)                      215
Less:  Bagging Cost                          -15
Economic Price (bulk)                        200
2. Ammonia (82% N)
It is assumed that the N in ammonia would be priced at
50% of the price of the N in urea (bulk price).
Ammonia Economic Price  =  (0.50 x 0.82 x 200)/0.46
= 178
Say: US$180/Ton.
3. Sulphur (recovered from the HSHR feedstock)
Economic Sulphur Price = US$85/Ton.
B.        Feedstock and Fuel Oil Prices in Constant 1975 US Dollars.
US$/Ton
CIF Price or            Economic
Equivalent               Price a/
Naphtha                       100                      105
Commercial Heavy Fuel Oil      65                       70
High Sulphur Heavy Fuel
Oil (HSHFO)                 6ob/                     65
High Sulphur Heavy
Residue (HSHR)              45E/                     50
a/ US$5/ton of product is added to the CIF price for local handling and transport.
b/  Commercial Heavy Fuel Oil price less US$5/ton for high sulphur content.
c/ Derived on the basis that about 0.3 tons of light destillate (e.g. naphtha at
US$100/ton) blended into 0.7 tons of high sulphur heavy residue (HSHR) will
produce a high sulphur heavy fuel oil. at US$60/ton.
Industrial Projects Department
January 27, 1976



Table 7-2/7-'
Page 83
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
Table 7-2
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
------- In Millions of Constant 1975 US$ ---------
Economic
Capital       Operating        Value of         Net
Year               Costsa/    Costs (Net)V/       Outputs       Benefit
1 (1976)          26.40                                        (26.40)
2                 55.54           -                -           (55.54)
3                 66.35           -                -           (66.35)
4                 42.70         14.24            29.65         (27.29)
5                   -           35.82            88.95          53.13
6                   -           40.23           1o6.74          66.51
7                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
8                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
9                   -           40.23           10o6.74         66.51
10                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
11                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
12                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
13                   -           40.23           1o6.74          66.51
14                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
15                   -           40.23           106.74          66.51
16 (1/2 year)      16.4  /       20.12            53.37          49.65
Economic Rate of Return - 23.8%
/  Identical to the capital costs used in the financial rate of return
except for year 3 (1978) when about US$3.5 million (in constant
1975 US$) of duties are assumed to be paid. Domestic resource costs have
been converted to US dollars using the same exchange rate (Cr$8.50/US$l.00)
as in the financial analysis.
b/  Taken from Table 6-3.
c/ At US$200/ton of urea (bulk) and US$180/ton of ammnonia. Production
is 1 /2 year during year 4 (1979) at 50% capacity utilization and
75% during year 5.
d/ Recovered value of non-depreciable assets taken from Table 6-1.
Table 7-3
SENSITIVITY TESTS  ON ECONOllIC RATE OF RETURN
Economic Rate of Return. %
Base
Economic Product Prices           - 20%      - 10%      Case!!    + 10%      + 20%
Costs
(a) Base Case                  15.8       20.1      23.8       27.3       30.5
(b) Capital Costs Up
lO0t                      14.1       18.1       21.7       25.1       28.1-
(c) Capital Costs Down
10%                        17.8      22.3       26.3       29.8       33.3
(d) Operating Costs Up
20% b/                     12.3      16.8       20.9       24.6       28.0
(e) Operating Costs
Down 10%                  17.5       21.5       25.2       28.5       31.7
a/ At US$200/ton of urea (bulk) and US$180/ton of ammonia (in constant
1975 US dollars).
b/ Equivalent to an increase of 35% on fuel oil and feedstock costs
given all other costs are unchanged.
Industrial Pro,ects Department
April 13, 1976



- 84 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS
8.01      Agreement has been obtained with the Government, PETROBRAS and
BRASFERTIL on the following major points:
(i) The Government will undertake a study of the fertilizer sector
including consumption, distribution, and financing requirements
of capacity expansion. The study will also propose a mechanism
to update the demand/supply forecast and related data on a
periodic basis.   The terms of reference and timing of the
study will be satisfactory to the Bank. The Government will
exchange views with the Bank on the results of the study, the
Government's fertilizer pricing and import policies and its
plan for the expansion and development of the fertilizer
industry (paras 2.28 and 2.42).
(ii)  The Government will not take any action with regard to the price
of petroleum feedstock,urea and ammonia which would prevent the
subsidiary from making a reasonable return on investment under
efficient operating levels(paras 6.08 and 6.10).
(iii)  The Government will take all steps necessary to assure that all
funds, including foreign exchange are provided as required to
complete the project and that all approvals for implementation
of the project, and all necessary imports are timely provided
(para 6.11).
(iv)  PETROBRAS will utilize its supplier's credit sources, up to
US$35 million, or such amounts as may be usable and/or needed
by the project; and will relend these funds to BRASFERTIL
on terms at least equivalent to those received by PETROBRAS,
with the subsidiary bearing the foreign exchange risks
(paras 5.09 and 5.10).
(v) PETROBRAS will refinance, as necessary, any loan repayments
due before project completion (para 5.10).
(vi)  PETROBRAS will obtain untied foreign commercial bank loans for
at least US$20 million equivalent and pre-finance foreign ex-
change disbursements not eligible for Bank or suppliers credit
financing prior to the effectiveness of the commercial bank
loans (para 5.11).
(vii)  PERTROBRAS will assist BRASFERTIL in obtaining a loan from BNDE
of about US$55 million equivalent with a grace period and maturity
similar to the proposed Bank loan (para 5.12).



- 85 -
(viii)  PETROBRAS will supply both foreign exchange and local funds, as
necessary, to complete the project, on terms and conditions such
that at project completion BRASFERTIL will have a debt/equity ratio
of 60/40, or better, and a current ratio of at least 1.2:1.0 (para.
5.13).
(ix)  PETROBRAS has identified a list of goods proposed for Bank finan-
cing and is proceeding with procurement arrangements in consulta-
tion with the Bank. Retroactive financing, up to US$3.5 million,
is proposed to cover downpayments on engineering contracts and
some equipment whose delivery is critical to project completion
(paras 5.14 and 5.15).
(x) PETROBRAS and the subsidiary will enter into an agreement regard-
ing the supply and pricing of feedstorck and of utilities
from the refinery to assure efficient,operation (paras 6.08).
(xi) BRASFERTIL, following project completion, will maintain a
debt/equity ratio of 60/40 or better,, maintain a current ratio
of at least 1.2:1.0, not incur any debt if the projected debt
service coverage ratio falls below 1.5, and will not distribute
dividends (other than dividends on preferred shares) nor prepay
debt if such action would cause its current ratio to fall below
1.5. (para. 6.11).
8.02      The project provides a sound basis for a loan to BRASFERTIL of US$50
million equivalent for a period of 15 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
Industrial Projects Department
April, 1976






ANNEX
BRAZIL - ARAUCARIA FERTILIZER PROJECT
INDEX OF PROJECT FILE
1.   Report - Industrial Projects Identification Mission
December 5, 1972, Messrs. Fernandez, Carmigniani and Brown
2.   Estudo Nacional de Fertilizantes, January 1973
Report sponsored by BNDE, IPEA and ANDA and prepared by
SEITEC and Foster Wheeler (Brazilian Consultants), in
Portuguese
3.   National Fertilizer Program, November 11, 1974, prepared
by Fertilizer Commission of Brazil (English translation)
4.   Memo - Brazil - Possible Bank Participation in a
Chemical Fertilizer Project, Mr. Kunio Kikuchi, January 23,
1975
5.   The Current Fertilizer Situation in Brazil - 1974 Staff
Paper prepared for IBRD by International Fertilizer
Development Center, May 3, 1975
6.   Memo - Brazil - Fertilizer Sector Explanatory Mission
Mr. Neithard Petry, May 22, 1975
7.   Memo - Brazil - Project Preparation Mission for Fertilizer
Projects Messrs. Manfred Ferber and Don Brown, July 9, 1975
8.   Aide Memoire IDB/IBRD meeting on fertilizer projects in
Brazil July 2, 1975
9.   Petrobras - Management Information
10.   petrobras - Financial Statements
11.   Feasibility Study, Manufacture of Ammonia and Urea at
Araucaria (in Portuguese), by PETROBRAS, November, 1975
12.   Fertilizer Market in Brazil, Consultants Report
Messrs. Gunther Weinschenk and Orlando Puppin, October, 1975
13.   Brazil and PETROBRAS, (brochure on PETROBRAS)
14.   Engineering Contract for Araucaria Project, January 1976
15.   Equipment List - Araucaria Project, January 1976



ANNEX
16.   Ultrafertil - Financial Statements
17.   PETROFERTIL - Operating data
18.   Brazil - Fertilizer Transport Study
Phase I, December 1975 (in Portuguese)
19.   Estatutos (Charter) PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES, S.A. (The Borrower)
Industrial Projects Department
April 1976



IBRD-12054
POR~~~~~~~~~ETOWN W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARC l9-7r
BOJVSTA                                       At/anti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c cean
I'Z
-~~   ~ i~~~c~~-  ~   ~~4<~>Ps~~LETALEZ
MANAUS~~~(I                     A      /                             EREIN
0~~~~
A                (TERESINAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECF
*                     I'        i'. f NRR7-H-?                --MAC01
RIO BRANCO    '/_,                                                                                                 1N~A)S 0
-~~~~~~~~~ .7. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAWVACOR
0CUIABA                 BRASiLIA'-1.
/   GOIANA0        '
C E  N  T, R
BELO HOCRIZONTE                                   I.
IRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-cR
P       S~~~~~~~~l   AOPUO
JANA~~~~~OEA 
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~BRATZIAN   CAL?I
.7, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  






ca,ibbo., Seo                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR D-12055
50-                                                                   40-
r       B R A Z I L                                                                                              j      S         b       e
S'   U T H                                                                                 Ceie               iico                        \
AM .EiR ICA                                                                                             TE ESINA E~frtus                    m              Moto  '_X  tr
~~ BRAZIL9RZI
0           .  AREA OF MAP                                               BRAZILtu
MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS                                                              A,.i
A f/an tfc                                                      NITROGEN      PHOSPHATE                              SoI6oriro              Gonde
PROPOSED                       A              *
Ocean                              UNDER CONSTRUCTION             A k1
OPERATING                      A                                             Prtbna              Arcooerde
Jtozono           Palmero           <Sorresros
RAILROADS                                                                             d.s Indlost
Tho booo'r ~h-o - 'h. -oP d~ noMrE
bZ,nl     n Orrb -r rpr  by r t                        -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                             S-nhor           CaolgY,C
WorIrjBrrrEorrrbrrrofrSSorntb7hotet                                                                               Formoso rNfi ka 3OF
-10-                                                                                                                                                   A  ARACAJU
M-r.~~~~~~ A..
- BRASiLIA                        M       Aoul
G0     ANpoi/
| `,-,                                                          le,ANI /                           &ones Cl,os                      /
UO.   roP OaR do,         po-op    /
. Cpo-  V..o doCrno                                                                  B j
|1i>uz   ~         ~         Spcoon               OoriRIro        \    o  ro     O                                                     4.rno   a 
Cn .ocna  do  Col b                                         D !ch
)      urojv  Aanortmaennatuba\                .,2P r(IF  G     J          om
P-        A,.                         Plty   cNo                                   t PorrnoRtAg2
; i- -", CcmPinos SM > tpit- 
-' -A150  Alogh!Cnare     t          CooSAuo inhos                   Jund
I'        Qra,   )           ouaroei  a    PORO= A           nLEGRE
cijr   Mare       H   z- po
*  _oSttC. Rosc  /0 }   O FLORIANAPOLIS                             I
/.6                                d.         .             udX Imbitubo 
'  r m end2  S Sebastio                                                                b jSro-IO   200   300   400   5
.....~~~~~~ /S b tI- '^
KILOMETERS
(                                                        50'                                                                   40'



