Document of
FILE Copy                 The World Bank                   RT4RII
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1825-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAI BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
F'EDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FERTILIZER PROJECT
April 27, 1976
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performnace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 13, 1976)
Currency Unit                          Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                   =               Cr$10.27
Cr$1                   3               US$0.10
Cr$1,000               -               US$97.37
Cr$1,000,000           =               US$97,371



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A. (BRASFERTIL) with the guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$50 million to help
finance a fertilizer project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, in-
cluding four and a half years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
The Government of Brazil would charge BRASFERTIL a guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the
loan to BRASFERTIL to 10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812--BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic
management and buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high
and sustained income growth, strong balance-of-payments performance and
gradually decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth
of about 10% over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income,
a 130% increase in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar
value of exports. Howevrer, international economic events in 1974 and 1975
have forced at least a t:emporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth.
With the sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade and the disrup-
tion of the world capital market, the balance-of-payments is proving to be
a severe constraint on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth has
dropped sharply, into the 4-5% range during 1975-76.
4.        The fourfold -increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75. These factors
caught Brazil at the timae when its economy was overheated and growth of
import demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth
some key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output. The
current account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or 2%
of GDP, widened to aboul: US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the
sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth
(roughly 30%) and the inicreasing level of interest payments on debt. The
bulk of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external
1/   This section is reprinted from the President's Report on the Agricultural
Research Project for Brazil (Report No. P-1813-BR), dated April 13, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conrents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aulhorization.



- 2 -
financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was generally avail-
able during 1971-73.
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, conti-
nuing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and by introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export
growth as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Never-
theless, because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7
billion in 1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade
account was virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflect-
ing the growth of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchan-
dise imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices 25%
and continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition,as a longer
term measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. It is
clear, however, that despite these measures 1976 will be another difficult
year for balance-of-payments management as prospects are for a relatively
small gain in exports and as a result economic growth can again be expected
to be in the 4% range.
7.        Adverse developments during 1975-76 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and
its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the
world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world
economy has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's pri-
mary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures, and,
through the balance-of-payments, on the overall growth of the economy. It now
appears that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to grow during
1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. However, despite the
reduced pace of growth in 1975-76 a growth path averaging 6% per annum is
still feasible for 1975-80 as a whole. It is estimated that to attain such a
growth path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, capital other than direct investments and financial credits) re-
quired for the 1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or
three times the average for the 1970-74 period.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at around
16.7%, which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of
development. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached
about US$22 billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$15
billion was in the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during



- 3 -
1975 on this total external debt was about 38%, or about the same as the
average for 1969-73. lIowever, it should be noted that net foreign exchange
reserves at the end of 1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion, equiv-
alent to some four months of the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor ser-
vices. While total debt service ratio can be expected to rise somewhat in
1976, if an export growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms (com-
pared to 30% in 1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if
average maturities of new financial credits gradually improve from six to
eight years, the debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to return to the
level prevailing in the 1969-73 period. Despite Brazil's heavy debt service
burden, the large foreLgn exchange reserves accumulated over the past several
years ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its debt ser-
vice obligations in the short term, while the country's record of high
caliber financial manapement provides grounds for confidence in the mainte-
nance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsibility for its allevia-
tion. While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a
new positive policy wh-ich could be labeled as "redistribution along with
growth." To this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures
for improving income d:istribution. These can be classified into three broad
areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, although marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural
development in the Northeast. This program envisages investment expenditures
of about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79, and is designed to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and
execution of integrated rural development projects, which are lilcely in some
cases to include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assump-
tion that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and,
therefore, standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified
28 subregions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONOREDESTE
funds would be used initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte
project is one of the first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends
to present additional similar projects for Bank consideration in the future.
Active consideration iE: being given to a major modification in the state
value added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer
to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education.
In the area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to



- 4 -
extend these programs to a larger share of the population. In 1975 it allowed
under the Social Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund),the lowest
paid workers covered by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and
US$300 monthly, to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from
their PIS accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition pro-
gram which, under the previous Government, got off to a poor start. Greater
emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income
housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the
past. BNH is also developing a site and services program to reach parts of
the population even lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently
reorganized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its
activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new
federal agriculture research institutions (EMBRAPA) is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming-systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the Government's
recently approved public investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority
to education, health, agriculture and regional development, which account for
about 30% of total public investment. Finally, the Government intends to use
a wage policy to improve income distribution. It has already revised the
formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale and has introduced
an 8-10% increase in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       By March 31, 1976, the Bank had approved 60 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,563.2 million, of which 36 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increas-
ing to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75, and US$127 million in the first half
of FY76. Disbursements will continue to increase during the next few years.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1976 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling US$192
million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans
amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million;
and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million were approved. So far
in FY76, six loans totalling US$327 million have been approved: US$60 million
for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program; US$75 million for the FEPASA
railway rehabilitation and expansion program; US$12 million for the Rio Grande
do Norte rural development project; US$55 million for the secondary and feeder
roads project; US$85 million for the development banking project; and US$40
million for the agricultural research project. We are working actively with
the Brazilians on the preparation of a nutrition project, a second agro-



- 5 -
industries project, a second ammonia/urea fertilizer project, electric power
transmission and distribution projects in the Northeast and in the State of
Parana, a water and sewerage project in the state of Minas Gerais, and a
rural development project in the same state.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in external public debt outstanding would in-
crease to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise to
about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external debt
service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has commit:ted more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country.  As of March 31, 1976 IFC had made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled,
US$20.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$83.0
million, US$60.6 million represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to March 31, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of- important development objectives, which are inter-
dependent and complemenl:ary. One important lending objective for the Bank
has been to help Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its develop-
ment, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase in petro-
leum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's export
capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for imports.
The proposed fertilizer project will help alleviate the balance-oE-payments
constraint in two ways: first by substituting local production of fertilizer
for imports (at present Brazil imports about 70% of its fertilizer consump-
tion), and second, by contributing, through increased agriculturaL production,
to the success of the Government's program to promote non-traditional agricul-
tural exports. The balance of payments would also be aided by the proposed
agro-industries program now under preparation, which is oriented toward ex-
ports to supply major quantities of foodstuffs to the rest of the world.
Much of the investment which the Bank has helped finance in BraziL's trans-
port sector--railways, ports and highways--is designed to facilitate the
smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steeL expansion
program is helping Brazil develop output of a commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful supply of high grade
iron ore and the scale of its internal markets.
16.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil has been to
support the growing effort of the Government to identify and deveLop projects
designed to increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments
of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those



- 6 -
groups, and to alleviate poverty. The Government's fertilizer program, of
which the proposed project is a part, should lead to lower cost to the
economy of fertilizer consumption and greater stability of fertilizer supply,
thereby stimulating increases in agricultural production. A more intensive
use of land through fertilizer use is one of the strategies of the Govern-
ment to improve the incomes of small farmers, as they normally do not have
the means to expand their area under cultivation. The proposed project would
closely complement the Government's efforts undertaken in the recently ap-
proved agricultural research project, whose emphasis is on improving the
technology available for selected crops that are important to the small
farmer. Other Bank projects designed to assist low-income groups are the
recently approved Lower Sao Francisco and Rio Grande do Norte rural develop-
ment projects, which will help develop the range of rural services necessary
to ensure that improved technology is made available to small farmers. The
Government is now preparing, in some cases with the collaboration of Bank
staff, additional integrated rural development projects to increase the
productivity of the small farmer and we expect to present in the future an
increasing number of projects of this type. The Bank is also participating
in important development efforts in Brazil's urban areas, and a recently
approved development banking project, by focusing on small and medium indus-
tries, will give special support to a segment of the industrial sector that
has significant labor absorption prospects and should result in the creation
of a sizeable number of new jobs in many urban areas in the country. We are
also actively associated with the preparation of new projects in the fields of
water supply and sewerage, site and services, nutrition, and rural education.
17.       A third Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, in order, inter alia, to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. Institutional
improvement is an important objective of this proposed project, as, in con-
nection with it, the Government will undertake a marketing and distribution
study to define improvements in the marketing and distribution system and
changes in Government policy needed to support the increases in fertilizer
consumption foreseen in agricultural and rural development programs. The
institution-building objective has also been important in the agricultural
research project, which will strengthen the production orientation of Brazil's
agricultural research efforts in the Northeast, North and Center-West of
the country. The institution-building objective has also been important in
our assistance in the transportation sector, where emphasis has been given
to the rational selection of investments, the strengthening of railway opera-
tions and the improvement of their financial performance, and in the electric
power sector.
18.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in
order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. In connection with the project, the Government has
decided to attempt to tap the US long-term institutional investors' market,



- 7 -
which has not been exploited adequately by Brazil in the past. The Govern-
ment has expressed interest in receiving the Bank's support for this venture
in the form of a co-financing operation similar to the one recently concluded
for Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (CSN). In some sectors, such as electric
power and steel, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional
bilateral supplier and financial credits in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms.
PART III - INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE, AND THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR IN BRAZIL
Industry and Agriculture
19.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the last few years. During 1967 to 1974 real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%. Industrial growth de-
creased to 4% in 1975 as a result of balance-of-payment constraints and is
expected to be in the range of 5% to 6% in 1976. The most dynamic element
of Brazil's industrial expansion has been the production of consumer durables
and capital goods, which increased at an annual average rate of 18% during
1967 to 1974, and now accounts for about 28% of total manufacturing produc-
tion. On the other hand, the slowest growing subsector has been the tradi-
tional consumer goods industries (textiles, clothing, food products) whose
share in manufacturing output declined from 36% in 1967 to 28% in 1974.
Production of intermediate goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber,
semi-finished metals), which account for 42% of manufacturing output, has
increased at a good pace, averaging 12% since 1967. Increased production of
these intermediate goods, however, has not been sufficient to cope with growth
in domestic demand, and imports are still significant, reaching US$4.1 bil-
lion in 1975 (excluding petroleum) or 34% of total imports. There is, there-
fore, substantial opportunity for import substitution in this subsector of
industry. The proposed project is part of the Government's program to achieve
self-sufficiency in fertilizers in the next 5 to 10 years.
20.       While the rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74
was spearheaded by accelerated industrial production, the agricultural sector
also performed well, providing an increasing share of Brazil's growing domes-
tic requirements for food and fibers as well as a rising export volume.
Agricultural output grew at a rate of about 6% per annum during 1967-74, and
at 3.4% in 1975, despite adverse climatic conditions in four out of seven
years. Part of this growth was due to substantial increases in the produc-
tion of new crops, such as soybeans and wheat in the Center Region of Brazil.
At present Brazil has become the world's largest producer of sugar, and it is
the second largest supplier of soybeans, while remaining the world's leading
coffee producer. While the sector's contribution to gross domestic product
has declined from about 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, it still accounts
for over 60% of the value of exports. Three commodities--coffee, soybeans
and sugar--generate 40% of total export earnings. While coffee continues to
play an important role in the sector, accounting for about 12% of output,
its share in total exports has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 11% in
1975.



- 8 -
21.       In the past, Brazil's increasing agricultural output has resulted
mainly from expansions of the cultivated area. From now on, however, agri-
cultural growth will have to depend to an increasing extent on raising the
productivity of presently cultivated areas. The Government has established
a goal of 40% (7% annually) of real increase in agricultural output for the
1975-79 period, with the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost
producers and exporters of foodstuffs. The Government's strategy to achieve
this objective has two components. First, it has allocated substantial
public resources to incorporate additional new areas to agricultural produc-
tion through programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and the
new POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs which provide agricultural credit
and financing of transport and rural infrastructure and the like in the North
and Center-West, respectively. The goal of these programs is to expand
agricultural area by 4% to 5% annually and to encourage settlement to bring
these areas into production as quickly as possible. A second component of
the Government strategy is to increase productivity through modernization
of agriculture and increased use of fertilizers and improved seeds. A sub-
stantial expansion in the supply of credit and complementary technical assis-
tance for the purchase of modern agricultural inputs is included in the
Government program. These inputs should bring about a 2% to 3% annual
increase in productivity necessary to achieve the overall growth target of 7%
for the agriculture sector. The proposed fertilizer project is an important
component of the Government's program to achieve these increases in agricul-
tural productivity.
22.       Increased agricultural productivity is particularly important to
improve the income of small farmers as they are normally unable to increase
their income by expanding their areas under cultivation. To this effect,
the Government has introduced special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE,
which is designed to improve small farmers' productivity in the Northeast
through the formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects.
It has also reorganized federal research and extension services to serve a
broader segment of the rural population. In addition, it recently introduced
a crop/credit insurance scheme to insure farmers against a large portion of
losses resulting from natural disasters.
23.       The overall package of new programs reflects a shift in agricul-
tural policy in Brazil. The past orientation of the Government's agricul-
tural policies was predominantly toward the promotion and establishment of
large and commercially oriented agricultural enterprises as the main invest-
ment for developing the agricultural sector. It was feared that small-farmer
programs would absorb considerable public expenditure without a commensurate
increase in production. It was also assumed that large-scale agricultural,
agro-industrial and industrial development would generate more employment
opportunities to absorb redundant or low productivity agricultural labor than
any program to assist small farmers directly. Previous efforts to help the
rural poor were often restricted to social services, whereas the Government's
new approach represents an attempt to achieve both distribution and produc-
tion ends. To be sure, no overnight eradication of rural poverty, which has
been endemic in some regions of Brazil, especially in the Northeast, for



- 9 -
decades, is likely to be forthcoming from these programs. Nevertheless,
responsible efforts to improve the productivity of Northeast agriculture
together with programs to increase industrial activity in the region already
have resulted in a more rapid growth of per capita income in the Northeast
than in Brazil as a whole; with the initiation of new programs this process
is expected to continue under the Second Development Plan.
The Fertilizer Industr,
24.       At present, EBrazil's fertilizer industry consists of a large number,
about 25, of relatively small private sector and Government-owned companies,
with a total production capacity of 270,000 tons of nitrogen and 690,000 tons
of phosphate. The industry has concentrated on importing, mixing, blending
and distribution, rather than on establishing large scale, efficient produc-
tion facilities. Many companies compete at the retail level largely with
imported materials, while only a few companies have their own, generally
small, production facilities, which have to be protected when world fertilizer
prices are low. The lc,w levels of domestic production have been due, in part,
to the fact that Brazil is not well endowed with easily exploitable natural
resources for the production of chemical fertilizers. Natural gas, the ideal
raw material for nitrogen fertilizers, has been found only in the Northeast
and not in large quantities. On the other hand, large deposits of phosphate
rock have recently been found in the center of the country, but they are of
low nutrient concentration and only one deposit is currently being exploited
on a large scale. Since at present the local industry has a small capital
base and generates only limited amounts of funds for reinvestment, and since
large-scale new facilities will require substantial investments, expansion in
fertilizer production will have to be financed mainly from outside the present
industry.
25.       With the objective of protecting local fertilizer producers, and
in view of the wide fluctuations in international fertilizer prices exper-
ienced in the past, the Government established a quota system that requires
retailers to purchase a given proportion of domestic for each unit of imported
fertilizer. The Government has changed this ratio periodically depending on
price levels and local availability. When international prices were high, as
in 1973-75, imports could be made freely; but under current low international
prices, imports are permitted only if the retailer purchases a given propor-
tion of local production. The Northeast is exempted from this quota system.
As new, large-scale efficient fertilizer plants now planned enter into pro-
duction, prices of domestic fertilizers are expected to move in line with
long-term international prices, thereby obviating the need for the import
quota system. The Government continuously reviews its fertilizer import
policies and has agreed to exchange views with the Bank on this matter (see
Section 3.04(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Fertilizer Consumption
26.       Growth of fertilizer consumption in Brazil has been rapid but also
erratic. From 1965 to 1972 fertilizer consumption increased at an annual
average rate of 29%, but over the past three years it has levelled off, pri-
marily as a result of the sharp increase in international prices during that



- 10 -
period and the scarcity of fertilizer in the world market. In 1975, fertil-
izer consumption stood at 1.9 million nutrient tons, of which 21% was nitro-
gen, 47% phosphate, and 32% potash. The relatively high ratio of phosphate
consumption is agronomically justifiable, based on soil characteristics in
Brazil. Sugar, coffee, soybeans and wheat are the major crops using fertil-
izers, accounting for 60% to 70% of total consumption. As mentioned in
paragraph 21 above and paragraph 30 below, the Government is now stimulating
greater fertilizer use in order to achieve increases in agricultural output.
These Government efforts, and the fact that international fertilizer prices
are now again at a lower level and are expected to remain so for the next
few years, should result in increases in domestic fertilizer consumption
averaging between 8% and 10% per year until 1985. By that time, fertilizer
consumption would reach between 4.2 and 5.2 million nutrient tons, of which
nitrogen is expected to represent between 1.4 and 1.8 million tons.
Fertilizer Supply
27.       Although domestic fertilizer production has grown at an average
annual rate of 25% since 1965 and reached a level of 560,000 nutrient tons
in 1974, it supplies less than 30% of consumption. In 1974, Brazil's imports
of fertilizers cost US$492 million, representing a considerable strain in
Brazil's balance of payments. Since most Brazilian producers are not large
enough to produce fertilizer on an economical basis, domestic fertilizer
prices have been relatively high, except during 1973-75, when they were sur-
passed by abnormally high international prices. The relatively high prices
of fertilizer in Brazil constitute a major obstacle to the Government's
objectives of increased agricultural production and improvement of rural in-
comes. Therefore, in 1974, the Government launched a National Fertilizer
Program for a major expansion of production based on large-scale, efficient
plants, with a view to achieving self-sufficiency by the mid-1980s. The ex-
pansion of nitrogen production has been entrusted to PETROBRAS, a Government-
owned petroleum company which has responsibility for the exploration and
exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon resources. Owning two fertilizer
plants that represent 55% of present installed nitrogen capacity, PETROBRAS
has substantial experience in this subsector. In the next five years,
PETROBRAS plans to complete four major nitrogen projects with a total produc-
tion capacity of 1 million tons of nitrogen. The first project (expansion of
PETROFERTIL, see paragraph 34) is scheduled to start production in 1977, the
second, which is the proposed project, by 1979, and the other two by 1980 and
1981 respectively. By the mid-1980s, domestic nitrogen production should
satisfy about 90% of the expected domestic demand of about 1.4 million nutrient
tons of nitrogen. While it is clear that the expansion of the domestic
fertilizer sector is desirable, the available data on the fertilizer market
and on the marketing system is insufficient for effective planning of the
sector's future development. To overcome this deficiency, the Government will
undertake a comprehensive fertilizer market and marketing study (see paragraph
29 below). It is evident that fertilizer use and production will expand
greatly and that increased agricultural production is a viable development
goal for Brazil, but much more analysis and planning is necessary if fertil-
izer development is to take place efficiently.



- 11 -
28.       To ensure proper coordination in the carrying out of the expansion
of the fertilizer industry under the National Fertilizer Program, the Govern-
ment in 1974 constituted a National Fertilizer Commission, with representa-
tives from the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Planning, Transport,
Agriculture and Finance. This commission is also charged with the respon-
sibility of formulating policy and planning to facilitate the growth of the
fertilizer sector. It has concentrated largely, however, on increasing pro-
duction, and little attention has been paid to the marketing and distribu-
tion aspects of the sect:or, as explained below.
Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
29.       About 90% of total fertilizer consumption is processed through
blenders which are either owned by fertilizer manufacturers (25% of total),
independent companies (65%) or cooperatives (10%). The Government intends
that private firms continue to handle the marketing and distribution aspects
of the sector. However, the rapid expansion of consumption expected in the
next few years, and the changing pattern of supply, might create a severe
strain on the existing f'ertilizer marketing and distribution network. At
present, with imports providing much of the total supply, imports can be
timed to match the major marketing season. The four-month period of May-
August normally represents 50% of total fertilizer consumption. As supply
switches to domestic production, with uniform production throughout the year,
storage and financing wi.ll become more of a problem. Thus, an analysis of
future storage and credi.t needs, both at wholesale and retail levels, is
essential. Transportation could also become an important bottleneck for the
increase in fertilizer c:onsumption, especially in the regions where agricul-
tural production will increase most rapidly. To analyze all these poten-
tial bottlenecks, and their effect on future fertilizer consumption, the
Government has agreed to undertake a marketing and distribution study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.04(a) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). This study would have the following objectives:
(i) develop projections of demand and supply of fertilizer in Brazil;
(ii) propose a mechanism to periodically update these projections; (iii) de-
termine the requirements for further investments in facilities for manufac-
turing, mixing, storing, transporting and marketing fertilizers; and
(iv) analyze fertilizer availability and use, including prices and subsidies,
credit requirements, and' the effects of cropping patterns and farm size and
location on fertilizer use. The Government has also agreed to exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the Government's fertilizer import and pricing
policies and its plans for coordinated expansion of the Brazilian fertilizer
industry (see Section 3.04(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
30.       As mentioned, international fertilizer prices were at a high level
in 1973-75 causing a decline in the purchasing power of agricultural products
in relation to fertilizers and inducing a levelling off of fertiliLzer con-
sumption in Brazil. Concerned about the impact of lower fertilizer consump-
tion on its plans for expanding agricultural production, in April 1975 the
Government introduced a 40% price subsidy towards the purchase by farmers
of fertilizers. At the same time, the Government required banks to charge
15% interest on fertilizer credit, which had been previously interest-free.



- 12 -
The net decrease in cost of fertilizer to the farmer resulting from the
measure was in the neighborhood of 30 to 35%. The Government continuously
reviews its policy towards prices and subsidies and it is likely that, since
international prices have decreased and as domestic ex-factory prices decline
in response to more efficient local production, the subsidy will be gradually
reduced or eliminated. In conjunction with the price subsidy, the Government
also established a system of indirect fertilizer price controls at the retail
level, under which banks (which grant credit for more than 95% of all ferti-
lizer sold) will not lend for fertilizer priced above the ceilings. This
price control system has only recently been introduced so its effect is not
yet known. But it is designed to limit profits especially on imported ferti-
lizers to a reasonable level and to stabilize prices.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept
31.       The project consists of a 1,200 metric tons per day (TPD) ammonia
plant, of which 830 TPD ammonia would be converted to 1,500 TPD of urea, and
about 370 TPD ammonia would be sold directly to other fertilizer producers.
The project would add about 325,000 tons per year of nitrogen to Brazil's
fertilizer capacity which, as mentioned above, presently includes a nitrogen
component of only 270,000 tons per annum. The project would be located in
Araucaria, Parana, adjacent to a petroleum refinery that PETROBRAS is cur-
rently building. The refinery would provide the feedstock to the project (a
high sulphur residual petroleum fraction that has limited alternative uses)
as well as electric power, steam, water and other utilities.
B.   Project Implementation
32.       Following PETROBRAS' normal procedure that it has used in building
its own refineries and ammonia plants (paragraph 27), BRASFERTIL, with the
assistance of PETROBRAS project staff, will have overall responsibility for
the project. Basic engineerng (plus foreign procurement services) will be
obtained from two internationally experienced engineering firms (Uhde and
Lurgi, of the Federal Republic of Germany). Detailed engineering (and local
procurement services) will be provided by an experienced Brazilian engineering
firm, Natron-Consultoria e Projetos, S.A. Erection will be contracted to
local firms. Uhde and Lurgi will provide supervisory personnel during engi-
neering, procurement, erection and commissioning, as well as process guaran-
tees for plant performance. Engineering work started in January 1976, and it
is expected that the project will start commercial production in July 1979.
The experience of PETROBRAS, which has built several refineries and fertilizer
plants in Brazil, and the engineering contractors, who have extensive design,
constructing, and operating experience in other similar plants, will facili-
tate project execution.
33.       PETROBRAS is a Government-owned corporation established in 1953
with a legal monopoly for the exploration and exploitation of Brazil's



- 13 -
hydrocarbon resources. At present PETROBRAS has eight refineries in opera-
tion with a total capacity of about 1 million barrels per day (BPD) of crude
and owns and operates a large retail system. It is currently building two
new refineries, one at Araucaria (Parana) and the other at Sao Jose dos
Campos (Sao Paulo), which would add by 1979 an additional 310,000 BPD of crude
capacity. Brazil currently imports about 80% of its 900,000 barrels per day
petroleum consumption. In order to reduce this import dependence, PETROBRAS
has sharply increased its exploration program, and has announced its intention
of entering into service contracts with foreign companies. As a result, its
total investment program increased from US$600 million in 1973 to US$1.4
billion in 1975 and is expected to reach US$1.8 billion per year during 1976
through 1978. During 1976-78, internal funds would provide about 54% of all
funds required by PETRCBRAS, with new equity supplying 13%, and loans 33%.
On this basis, the financing program of PETROBRAS is sound, as is PETROBRAS'
current financial position. As of December 31, 1975, its net worth was
US$3.6 billion. Its current ratio stood at 1.6:1 and its long-term debt to
equity ratio at 25:75. During the year ending December 31, 1975, net income
reached US$679 million equivalent.
34.       PETROBRAS is already substantially involved in the nitrogen fertil-
izer industry through its wholly owned subsidiary PETROQUISA, which owns two
fertilizer companies, ULTRAFERTIL in Sao Paulo (about 85% of shares, with
IFC owning 5%) and PETROFERTIL in Bahia (100% of shares). ULTRAFERTIL was
established in 1966 with majority ownership in the hands of Phillips Petro-
leum Company, a US petroleum and fertilizer company. IFC participated in
the financing of this company providing US$11.2 million in equity and loans.
Financial problems, related to technical difficulties that led to low capa-
city utilization, caused Phillips to withdraw in 1974 and PETROBRAS acquired
all of Phillips interest in ULTRAFERTIL. Following an improvement in the
production of all ULTRAFERTIL units, and with the substantial fertilizer
price increases in 1974, ULTRAFERTIL was able to earn a large net income in
that year. ULTRAFERTII, and PETROFERTIL, with an installed nutrient capacity
of about 150,000 TPY, account for about 55% of the present nitrogen produc-
tion capacity of Brazil. PETROFERTIL is undergoing a substantial expansion
program which would add another 225,000 TPY of nitrogen capacity in 1977.
35.       PETROBRAS has recently created a new, wholly owned subsidiary,
Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A. (BRASFERTIL), to own and operate the proposed
project in Araucaria and also the two other ammonia/urea projects to be im-
plemented shortly. Staff for the plant will be recruited largely from other
PETROBRAS operations, including existing nitrogen fertilizer units, and would
include the staff at PETROBRAS now in charge of the execution of the project.
Adequate training will be provided under an existing and extensive training
program of PETROBRAS arLd by the two engineering contractors. The new company
will be a public corporation and PETROBRAS intends eventually to offer shares
for sale, particularly to existing private sector fertilizer companies.
Production and Market Aspects
36.       The ammonia plant will be based on partial oxidation technology
(Shell process) and will be a single train installation. The urea plant,



- 14 -
based on Stamicarbon (Netherlands) technology, is also a single train design.
Both units would be the first of their design and size in Brazil but repre-
sent modern, commercially proven technology. The ammonia plant design is
based on a successfully operating unit, owned by Veba-Chemie in the Federal
Republic of Germany, that was designed and built by the same German engineer-
ing companies, Uhde and Lurgi, that will build the Araucaria project. The
two companies are also supplying the basic design for similar units in two
IDA-financed projects now under construction in India-Nangal (Report No.
46-IN) and Sindri (Report No. 569-IN). The ammonia plant will consume about
1,400 TPD of heavy residual petroleum for both feedstock and fuel to be
supplied by the adjacent Araucaria refinery which will be the only source of
feedstock, since the raw material is not easily transported. The aforemen-
tioned level of consumption will represent about 44% of the expected heavy
residual output of the refinery. The balance not consumed by the plant will
be sold for industrial steam generation and fuel application after blending
with lighter fractions to reduce viscosity and sulphur. To ensure the supply
of feedstock and utilities to BRASFERTIL, PETROBRAS and BRASFERTIL have agreed
to enter a long-term contract regarding the supply and pricing of feedstock
and of the utilities from the refinery (see Section 4 of the draft Shareholders
Agreement). Effluents from the plant will be controlled to reasonable levels
and environmental considerations are satisfactory.
37.       Ammonia and urea from the proposed project will be marketed in the
Center Region of Brazil, of which the States of Sao Paulo and Parana have
traditionally accounted for more than 90% of the Region's fertilizer use.
The Center Region is expected to account for about 60% of Brazil's fertilizer
consumption in the next decade or so. PETROBRAS intends to use present
channels for the marketing of the output of the project. In particular, it
would use its subsidiary, ULTRAFERTIL, which has a strong marketing organiza-
tion. ULTRAFERTIL does not produce urea and is short of ammonia, but markets
significant quantities of both at present. PETROBRAS also plans to distri-
bute the output of BRASFERTIL through the large number of blenders and
dealers now operating in the Center Region.
38.       Nitrogen supply and demand are forecast to be in substantial balance
in the Center Region by 1982 after both Araucaria and the other PETROBRAS
ammonia/urea plant in Paulinea, 1/ Sao Paulo, reach full production. After
1982, a deficit is expected to reappear as consumption increases. A third
nitrogen fertilizer plant for the Center would be needed after the mid-1980s.
Although these assumptions are highly tentative, the forecast indicates that,
though the market for the Araucaria project is not a major problem, the pro-
jected close balance in supply and demand emphasizes the need for more atten-
tion to marketing. As mentioned in paragraph 29 above, the supply and demand
situation in Brazil will be closely monitored by the Government and the market-
ing and distribution study will provide the basis for planning the necessary
improvements in the distribution system.
1/   The Inter-American Development Bank is considering financial assistance
for this project.



C.   Project Cost and Financing
39.        rhe project requires financing of US$272 million equivalent, tacluu-
ing working capital and interest during construction, of which US$140 million
is in foreign exchange. The capital cost, which is summarized below, is based
on prices as of the end of 1975 and includes provisions for physical contin-
gencies and price escalation. Price escalation is relatively low since engi-
neering has already started (January 1976) and most equipment will, be ordered
on a fixed price basis during 1976.   The project qualifies for 80% exemption
from import duties.
ARAUCARIA - SUMMARY CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
(in US$ millions)
Foreign       Local
Exchange   Currency      Total      %
Equipment and Materials                      ,4.8        44.8 /L    119.6     62
Engineering and-Licenses                      9.8         6.1        15.9      8
Land and Civil Works                          2.2         i. 9       16.1      9
Erection, Supervision and
Pre-Operating Costs                         7.9        32.8        40.7     21
Base Cost Estimat-s /2                  94.7        97.6       192.3    100
Physical Contingencies /3                     8.0         8.2        16.2
Price Escalation /4                          12.5        13.8        26.3
Installed Cost                         115.2       119.6      234.8
Working Capital                               6.5          6,9       t3.4
Interest During Construc:ior                 10.3       _ 5.4        23.7
Financing Required                     14c.c)      131.9       271.9
/1   Includes US$3.6 mil]ion for import duties.
/2   At end of 1975 prices.
TY    10% for directly imported equipment and duties; and 9% for local purchases
excluding engineering and land.
/4   14% for equipment, civil works, erection, local supervision, physical
contingencles.
40.       The financing plan for the project envisages that 41% of the
financing required (or US$112 million) will be provided as equity by PETROBRAS,
with the balance provided as suppliers' credits (US$35 million), as loans from
foreign private lenders (US$20 million),      the Banco Nacional do Desenvolvi-
mento'Economico (US$55 million) and      the World Bank (US$50 million) (see
Section 3(b) of the draft Shareholder Agreement).



- 16 -
41.       PETROBRAS proposes to obtain a loan of at least US$20 million
through one or more foreign private lenders. This loan may be associated with
the proposed Bank loan, in a co-financing arrangement similar to that asso-
ciated with the Bank's 1975 loan to Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (Loan
1151-BR), it PETROBRAS is able thereby to obtain more favorable terms from the
private lenders. This loan could either take the form of a long-term private
placement with institutional investors, or a medium-term Eurodollar operation.
The terms of a long-term operation would be 10 to 15 years, including about 4
years of grace, at a fixed interest rate. PETROBRAS has already established
lines of suppliers' credit which are being used as needed by its several
ongoing and future projects. Considering the likely competitive sources of
imported equipment and the existing as well as possible sources of suppliers'
credits, the project is expected to be able to utilize efficiently about US$35
million of these credits. These tied credits will have maturities of five to
ten years, including about three years of grace at an average interest rate of
about 10% per year. Since the construction period is three-and-one-half years
and the grace period of the suppliers' credits is at most three years only,
some refinancing of the loans would be necessary. However, it is likely that
the suppliers' credits will be extended to PETROBRAS and not made directly to
the project entity. In this case PETROBRAS will onlend the equivalent amount
to the project with a grace period of four years or up to about mid-1980, at
which time the project will have been in production for about one year. On
the other hand, if the credit is extended directly to the project entity, then
PETROBRAS will provide additional funds (as loans to the project) for princi-
pal repayments during the construction period (see Section 3(c) of the draft
Shareholders Agreement).
42.       The principal amount of the BNDE loan would be subject to monetary
correction, in accordance with the domestic inflation rate, with a real
interest rate of 4% per annum. BRASFERTIL has applied to BNDE for a loan
in constant January 1976 cruzeiros of about US$47 million equivalent, with
monetary correction during the disbursement period adding an estimated US$8
million for a total disbursement of US$55 million equivalent in current terms.
This loan amount would be reduced if the company decides to obtain funds
from foreign private lenders in excess of US$20 million. Given the Govern-
ment's policy of periodically adjusting the exchange rate on the basis of
the difference in international and domestic inflation rates, the BNDE loan
would be equivalent to a conventional foreign loan with an interest rate of
about 13% annually. PETROBRAS has asked BNDE for a loan with a maturity of
15 years.
43.       The World Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent is proposed for 15
years, including 4-14i years of grace at 8.5% annual interest plus a 1.5%
guarantee fee to the Government. The Bank loan, the BNDE loan and possibly
the foreign private loans as well, will be made to BRASFERTIL. The company
will bear the foreign exchange risk for all the foreign loans. Should any
shortfall occur in the financing plan, or should the project require addi-
tional funds, PETROBRAS will provide the necessary funds in the form of



- 17 -
equity and/or loans to zomplete the project (see Section 3(a) of the draft
Shareholders Agreement). The funds will be provided in a form that will
ensure that BRASFERTIL's debt to equity ratio at project completion will not
exceed 60:40, and its current ratio will not be lower than 1.2 to 1.0 (see
Section 3(a) of the draEt Shareholders Agreement). The expected cash genera-
tion and borrowing program of PETROBRAS will be adequate to finance its in-
vestment programs including the equity contribution for this project.
D.   Procurement
44.       The proceeds from the Bank loan would finance expenditures for:
(a) equipment and materials procured through international compet[tive bid-
ding (US$26.0 million); (b) imported items costing US$100,000 or 'Less procured
through international shopping 1/ (US$3.4 million); (c) proprietary, limited
or long delivery items critical to the timely completion of the project, also
procured through international shopping (US$7.0 million); and (d) licenses,
engineering and supervision services (US$13.6 million) that are already con-
tracted using acceptable procedures. Although local suppliers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15% (or the import duty rate, if lower) for
purposes of bid evaluation, foreign suppliers are expected to provide all of
the items to be financed by the proposed loan. Retroactive financing of up to
US$3.5 million would cover payments made after January 1, 1976, for licenses,
engineering and supervision services (about US$3 million) and for item (c)
above (about US$0.5 million) (see paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
45.       A separate list of goods, jointly determined by PETROBRAS and the
association of local manufacturers, will be reserved for local procurement.
Domestic suppliers are expected to provide equipment and supplies totalling
some US$68 million (including contingencies and price escalation), and
PETROBRAS estimates that on average local equipment would cost about 25-30%
more than the CIF price of imports. This percentage is lower than the average
customs duty for the equipment concerned. Finally, there will be a third list
of goods to be financed by suppliers' credits. Selection of suppliers will
take into account, in addition to price and quality, the terms and conditions
of the proposed financing.
E.   Financial and Economic Benefits
46.       Over-the life of the project the average international FOB price of
urea is expected to average about US$160/ton (bagged) in constant 1975 US
dollars. This price is much lower than the price of about US$300/ton during
1974 and early 1975. By April 1976, international prices had dropped to
about US$110-150 per ton due to supply surpluses; they are expected to remain
low for a year or so, and then gradually increase to US$160 per ton. Since
the project's output will substitute for imports, freight and handling charges
1/   International shopping, as a procurement procedure, requires the
Borrower to obtain quotations from a reasonable number of capable
suppliers.



- 18 -
to the market area are added to arrive at a delivered price of US$215/ton
(bagged) for urea which is used for the economic analysis. The economic
price of ammonia, US$180/ton delivered, was derived from the urea price,
assuming that, on a nutrient basis, the nitrogen in urea is twice as valuable
as the nitrogen in ammonia.
47.       The financial analysis (in constant 1975 US dollars) assumes an
ex-factory urea price of US$195/ton, which is about 90% of the estimated
full cost of imports delivered to the market area. Ammonia, as an interme-
diate product, is priced at the full cost of imports, i.e., at US$180/ton.
The average production cost, at 90% capacity utilization, is about US$120/ton
of ammonia and US$100/ton of bagged urea. These cost figures are based on a
feedstock and fuel oil cost of US$40/ton, which is US$5 higher than the
present cost of US$35/ton. The project would then have a financial rate of
return of 22% before and 18% after income taxes. The financial forecast
indicates a strong financial situation for BRASFERTIL, with a debt service
coverage ratio in excess of 2.5 and the capacity to distribute dividends by
1980. The forecasts for BRASFERTIL assume a dividend payment equivalent to
10% of the equity, which is comparable to the dividend payments of successful
Brazilian enterprises. Even with this dividend rate, the enterprise is
expected to accumulate substantial funds for reinvestment. The debt-equity
ratio would improve rapidly from 56:44 in 1979 to 31:69 by 1982. BRASFERTIL
has agreed to maintain, at all times after project completion, a debt-equity
ratio of 60:40 or better and a current ratio of at least 1.2 to 1.0. It will
not incur any debt if the projected debt service coverage ratio would thereby
fall below 1.5 to 1.0, nor will it pay dividends (other than dividends on
preferred shares), prepay debt or make any cash distribution if the current
ratio would thereby fall below 1.5 to 1.0 (see Section 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       The annual economic value of the project's output of about 292,000
TPY of nitrogen is estimated at US$107 million in constant 1975 dollars, and
the economic rate of return at 24%. Although the feedstock is not a readily
marketable commodity, it has been imputed an economic price of US$50/ton on
the basis that it can be blended with some lighter petroleum fraction (e.g.,
kerosene) and upgraded to commercial heavy fuel oil specifications, which
would then have an economic price of US$65/ton. The economic production cost
is about US$85/ton of bagged urea and about US$100/ton of ammonia. The
project's economies of scale, its use of a relatively inexpensive feedstock,
and its import substitution role account for the favorable rate of return.
The high economic rate of return justifies the high priority accorded by the
Government to the project and the fertilizer sector in general.
F. Conclusions
49.       The project has a high economic return and will increase the avail-
ability and stability of fertilizer supply in Brazil at a low cost; it will
thus help alleviate the balance-of-payments constraint to the country's
growth. Coupled with the proposed fertilizer study, it should permit in-
creased efficiency in fertilizer use in the center of Brazil, and contribute
substantially to improved agricultural production and exports.



- 19 -
50.       PETROBRAS and the engineering firms    have the management and techni-
cal capabilities to minimize project risks in these areas. Since the project
enjoys economies of scale and would be one of the most efficient producers,
product pricing will not: be a major risk. Nonetheless, the Goverinment has
agreed that it will not take any action with regard to the price of ammonia,
urea and feedstock, thal: may prevent BRASFERTIL, operating efficiently, from
covering its costs, servicing its debts, and earning a reasonable return on
its invested capital (se!e Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). To
ensure that fertilizer nmarketing will not become a problem, the Government
will investigate in greater depth the market and marketing of fert:ilizer to
identify bottlenecks that may depress consumption, especially inaclequacies in
the distribution, storage, blending facilities, and the wholesale and dealer
network. The proposed marketing study will identify potential bottlenecks and
investment requirements and recommend steps to improve the marketing system.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loarn Agreement between Petrobras Fertilizantes, S.A. and
the Bank, the draft Petrobras Shareholder Agreement between the Bank and
PETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolu-
tion approving the proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex IV.
52.       I am satisfiedl that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.        1 recommend that the Executive Directprs approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 27, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of b pages
TABLE 3A
BRAZIL              * tlOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU K02)                  ..  , , , , ,,,..,,,,,,,,..
..............                                   SBRAZIL                              REFERENCE COuNrRIES 119701
TOTAL      SSt2.0 oOST RECENT
ARABLE                                  1960      1970    ESTIMATE          MExICO         11RUGUAY       JAPAN *
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. . . ........ ........ ...._. ..   .......       ..........._
GNP PER CAPITA CUSs)                      300.0      53O,0       760.0              720 .0      890 ,0     Zs70.0
__._....... _......
POPULATIDN ANO VITAL STATISTICS
.._............................
POPULATION CNID.YR, MILLION)             69.8        92.R      101.1                50.7         2.9      104,3
POPULATIIN DENSITY
PER SQUARE gm.                          8.0       11.0        12.0                26.0       16.0       200.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARAsLE LAND               ..       34.0          ..                  *.        18.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER TWOUSA4N)         42.0       35.0        37.0                43.0       22.0        19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAN)          12.0        10.0        9.0                10.0        9.0         7.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)         180.0      110.0          ..                69.0       43.0        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY At 9IRTH (YR5)         S0.0      6h.0         63.0                61.0       60.0        *2.0
GROSS REPRDOIICTION RATE                2.6        2.6         2.5                 3.1         1.4        1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE tS)
TOTAL                                   3.0        2.9         2.9                 3.S        1.3         1.0
UIRRAN                                  5.5        S.0         5.0                5.0           .,        2.5
IRRAN POPULATION (I 2I  TOTAL)          46.0        S6.8        58.0               s9.n          .1 72.0
AGE STQUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        43.0        42.0          ..               46.0        28.0        24.0
t5 TO 64 YEARS                        54.0        SS.0          ..               50.0        64.0        68.9
6S YEARS AND OVER                       3.0        3.0          ,,                 4.0        F.0         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RAT13                      0.9         0.8          ..                1.0         0.6        0.5
ECONOMIC DEPFNDENC   PATITI               1.6         1.5          ..                2.0         1.0        0.6
FA4ILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTnRS (CUMULATIVF. TWOIJI            ..      250.0          ..
IJSFRS I2 (IF MARRIES WOMEN)             ..         1.6         ..
EMPLnYMENT
..........
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2?700.0     29600.0          ,,            13000.0      0tno.0     55300.0
LABOR FlRCF tN AGRICJLTURE IXI           52.0       44.0          ..                40.0        17.n       t9.0
INEMPLOYFD 15 OF LABOR FqRCE)              ,.         ..          ..                 ..         8.0         1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
...................
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY.
HIGHEST 5S OF P9)PJLATTON             28.0 /      35.0 Sa                           /a .      q.0        14,2
41GH5ST 20X OF P3PLILATION            54.   /      62.0 h.                       17.   Ia    47 57 I. Sh
LnwSET 20o OF POPJLTION                L.0 1       3.0                                                        a 3.2  07.5 7  37.6
LOlWEST 4      PI PF POPJLATION       12.0  j     10.0 ..a.                       4.2  a 22.3
/0.  a                       10.2  a    04.2 a      22.3a
DlStRTRUTION UF LANI OWNERSHIP
..............................
S OWNED BY TOP 101 1 OWNERS               ..       45,0           ..                 *.          .-
I OWNED BY SMALLEST t00 IWNERS             ..         1.5         ..                  ..
HEALTH A4D NUTRITI3O
....................
OP)ULATION PER PWYSICI1N              2170.0      19So.0      2070.0a            t040.0       940.0       840.0
'OPULAlION PER MUVSIVG PERSON              *-     3300.0 a    2920.0 i           1570.0      3560         240.0
OPULATION PER OnsPITAL RED             275.0      260.0                         o930.0        60.0        50.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY DF -
CALORIES tS OF REOUIREMENTS)          102,0      109.0       110.0               110.0      107,0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                60.0       64.0        65.0               65.0        96.0        76.0
.OF WHICH A*IMAL AND PULSE          38.0        39.0                           28.0 Lb     64.0        45.0
)EATH RATE I/TH31l) AGES 1-4               ..          ..          .,               11.0         1.3         1.0
EDSCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCMOOL                        100.0      130.0           ..              104.0      118.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCWHO.L                       1.0       27.0           ..               23.0       56.0        90.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FTRST ANn) SECOND LEVEL)              13.0       1.0       1".0                 12.0       12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLmE4T
CX OF SECUADARY)                      19.0        17.0        18.0               ?4.0        27.n        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                  61.0       68.0           .,               76.0       91.0        99.0
NOJSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 ..          .0          .1                2.2          *-         1.0
ICCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (z)                          ..       73.0 d      67.0 &              61.0          *-        5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I Of ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..       4-.0        53.0               59.0
RURAL DOELLIGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (t)                       .,        8.0        11.0               28.0
C04S1IMPTION
...........
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER TROU POP:'          66.0       60.0        61.0               276,0      346.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOLI POP)            7.0       25.0        29.0                25.0        r2.0       85.0
ELECTRICITY (IKNWYR PER CAP)            328.0      487,0       544.0               586.0       762.0     3446.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 3.3        2.7         2.6                 3.1         7.7        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIO4S ON RI-VERSB



ANNEX I
NOW                                        F.-~~~~~~~~~~Pge. 2  f 4, Pages
Unles.. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-196l, for 1970 to 1968-1970, and for Mmt Recent Estimate to 1971-1973.
**Japan has been selected as an objective counstz7 guSe the Bhasim Government has shove particular interest in Japan' a developmental experience;
also, the two governments have condchted joint st&a*e to ideutify possible future economic Problems Of Brazil on the basis of the experiences in
Japan.
BRAZfi              1960   /a  Ueonemically active popolation,
19T2   /a  Sconamical.ly active papalnUu.m     &   B-PitS    personnl;     /c  Tnside only.
MOST RBU7 ENDIUi          /a  Hmpitel pa'smcsl;      /b   InidS only.
mmoo           ~~1970  /a  Houseolds;     /b  1961a-66;   /, Inside ebtay.
IURUGUAY            1970   /a   1967, households.
JAPAN               19,70  /a  Households.
R7, ?ebr'uazy ll, 1976
t'mlTMM O? 3DCTAL UTDICATOIS
La        -Uu-ec                                                                                  nUsn    Pro     - Population dividd by nubrof practicing
ae area comprieing terd area mud nln       te.                         ead I   rlagraduate nurses, 'trained' or "certified' nurses, and
Arable-c  os  recant eatimate of lend area used tesorturi1y or parmenently              auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
fo)r cuLtivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                    onprho      tl bed     Population divided by number of hospital beds
avaie in public end private general and specialized hospital ant
G P  24pita     - (lIP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-               rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homeas nd establishments for
"a.ody     aeconversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-7k basi).                     custodial and preventive care.
Po uaion    ndvital statistics                                                          equivlentof nt foo      supplies availfble i  cIountryper capfita: por duay;
t,nMd-v. iUini      - An of July first; if not avalable, average              availJAble supplies comprise domestic prodchtion, impor ts less uq'its,
or two end-yer estUmtes.                                        ~~~~~~~~~and changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processing end losses in distribution; requirumeta
P2pla'tion densiy - prfsqarkm-          ideapoutinersae kilo-                           were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
seta  (10  hoctare  oftoa  area                                                and health considerinig environmental temperature, body weights, age and
Population dnsiy     per square kmn of arble land - Megated as above for                sex distributions of population, and alloving 10% for waste at household
arable land only.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~level.
coeen_es  r    ) -Protein co-tent of per
Vit-al statistics                                                                       capita neftWsuply    t fded LPmrz y;not supply of food is defined as
Cr-ude b~irthrate per thouimnd - Annual live birth  per thmtuand of mid-                above; requsiriants for all countries estahlisbed tV USM    Boon~adL
year pou      Ion  usually five-7'sar avera4es wnding In 1960, 1I7  mid               Research Services provide for a miniomum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                        protein per dEy, and 20 grams of animIal nd polses protein, of whuich 10
C,.de det maspr thousand - Annual deaths per thess       of atd.7seur                grams should be animal protein; these standards are'lower then those of
populationm; ualyrive-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 ansd 1975                    75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as en average
f or developing countries,                                                            for the world, proposed by FAD0 in the Third World Food survey.
Infant :Dprtli   ra+e ~/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                8          rti       E      ro   :V     dp;      - Protein supp'ly of food
Ofage per     rse   ivs  iribts.                                                   t_        ro    nmi       n  usdy
Li fe exetncy atu -i3~}           Average number of years of life rein-               Deth rate   4thu)    aga  - - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-1,
atg                  ri ua ve-year averagets ending in 1960, 1970 end               yeas, o cildren Intis age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries,                                                        nutrition.
Gross r  routinrte - Average number of live daughters a uon mill
ber!      :_' 0  ?rpoutive period i-f she experiaene      present age-             Education
specific f-ertility rates; usually five-year averages enin   in 190PAlsederolet ratio- ExjMim                             chol-_   Hoolet Of al aesa
1970 and 1975 for developing coumtries.                                               pretg       ofriryshool-age population; includes children aged
tinrate     -total - Coqpowuid annual groth rates of aid-               6-il years but adjusted for different langths of primary education;
year    tionfor 1906, 19070, end 1960 to moet recent year.                        for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Populationgrwh     ae =     - urban - Comuted like growth rate of total                 since sousa Pupils are below cr above the official school age.
population     difeet   einitions of urban areas mW affect cemara-                  AdJusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; seownd-
bility of date amo,ng countries.                                                      ar-y education requires at least four years of approved primary instruc-
Dr?   p     t&    %o    total) - Ratio of mrben to total poplaUtion; dif-               tion; prowides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
TiiE?l         on. of mrban areas ww affect cemarsbilitg of data                      Pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondarce courses are generally
among countries,                                                                      excluded.
Axe  trtue Vrent) - Children (0-1i, years), working-ag         (15.64, years),        Year ofisholing      roided (firtzad second levels) - Total years of
an  eired 65years and over) as percentaLges of ui4-lrsAr populatio.                 scooig;a      seoar     lee,vctional instrwction may be partially
Ag  e~    ratio- Ratio of population undier 15 and 65 end over to                  or copletely excludeid.
thos  of ges  5 traugh tia                                                       ocationa enrolmst (%oof seco__ry       -VocationaLl institutions include
&-2*                               u~~ atoofppuai n sder 15 end 65 end over       tcmalinutrlorothter prograzms which Operate independently or
to       carce inage group of 15-6a years.                                      as departments of secondary institut~ions.
Fami-ly planning - acceptors (cumsilative. thoui - oummative imbw of                  Adult literacy rate N%   - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices umder anupises of nmtlsala fmiily                  centsge of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family plarnnis  - users (t of married woman) - Percentages of married                Hwn
wmnof child-bearlng age (15-lil years) Mwhous birtb-euutrel de-                  Mr~     4      om~   =   e  - Average number of parsons per room in occupied
vices to all married mmen in same age gruo..                                          cOnventiOna-Ldmuelngs in urban areass dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
&Mioysent                                                                             Ocuiddelnswihu               ie      er        Occupied cmonvetional dwell-
jo~iaor  ore  ttwwad)- Economically active pwamem. including                     1i1 in ra i   i      ruralareas  ithotb ide or outside piped mnter
are    oca     n7_MT_e but mm1udin         hoswives, studte, aet.;I                   facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                Access to slectricip  (%o     l   wlig)- Conventiomal dwellings with
.1br   oce i ariulurA         ) - Agricultural labor for.e (in ftasmin,                 electricity iliving quarters an percent oif total dwellings in urban
foety        utigadM       ig   as percentage of total lbo    force,.                 and rural areas.
Un   l      ~f          fre      Unamiloyed are usually defined as per-                 ua    elig      onctdt       lcrct       %   - Disputed as above for rural
a t:r  wUingto take a job, out of a job an a given                 N    Melins    n   ustd y.ltict 
day, reamined out of a job, end seeking work ftr a epmufiad mdniami
period not ameeding one week; mm rnot be comareblo beten cot-io
tries due to different definitions of unmmloyed and souse of data,                        re   e vr       ho          AUl tYPeB of receivmer for rabdi broad-
e.-g., eMployment office statistics, eagple amv~s    c~oIsory wmm-                    ca      ognrallNc pe thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployment insurane,                                                                    receivwer in countries end in years when registration of radio sets woe
in effect; date for recent years mey cot be comparable shince metcoon-
Income distribution - Percentage of private incme (both In cash and                     tries abolished licemeing.
kind) r;eeived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, mid pooret                 Paaase     cars,     thou po)- Passenger cam     comprise meter cars seating
4,0% of population.                                                                   i       tan  j   peros     sldsambulmancs, hearses and military
Distribution of land cimnershin - Percentages of land emdbyr vwathlwt                 ELac rn                 raw) - Annual consumption of industrial, cominr-
10* and poorest 10% of landownere. *                                                       , pulc an    prvae e  lectricity In kilowatt bwurs per capita; gen-
oral3y based on production daLta, without alloiamne for losses in grids
Health and Nutrition                                                                    butt allowing fur ijqporta and expwrta of electricity.
aoltion VW   ti-cian - Populatiohi divided ty m-w of V%'ottelftt                                            ) - Par cspita arnnal cocmumption in kilograms
p "iciAas quali    e   rma wmedial school at umivamitr level.                       iMM                    tA  production plus net imports of naewprint.



EWEIMIC DEV     IWIT DATA                                                    ANNEX         I
(In millions of U.S. dollars)                                                  Page     3   of    .4
Actual          Estimated      rJo1ctd        Aver  _ A=l Growth Rate.                       of GDY
1971      972      1973    1974     1975     198     1970-74    1974-76    1976-80     197      174        1980
NATIONAL ACC0UNTS /L                    Amounta in 1973 prices and exchange rates
Gros do.tic product                 62,710  69,608    77,891  85,369   88.357   121,700     11.0        4.2        7.0      100.6     100.6    100.7
Gain  from terms of trade(+)         - 609    -.598     -       - 469   - 965     - 819       .          .          .       - 0.6     - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross domestic income               62,101   69.010   77,891  84,900  105,278   120,881     11.0        3.7        7.1      100.0     100.0    IO0.0
Imports (inel. NF8)                  5,199   6,357    7,577   10,073    9,183    11,264     24.0       -5.6        5.7        7.6      11.9      9.3
Exports (import capacity)           4,098     5,218   6,596    5,987    6,705    10,784     10.2       10.2       10.6        7.2       7.1      8.9
Resource gap                         1,101    1,139     981    4,086    2,478       480       .          ,          .         0.4       4.8      0.4
Consumption                         50,437  54,547   61,529   66,578   69,020    91,586      9.7        3.0        6.5       82.2      78.4     75.8
Investment                          12,765   15,602   17,343  22,408   20,910    29,775     22.0        0.5        7.1       18.2      26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                    11,664   14,463  16,362   18,322   18,432    29,295     16.4        6.7        8.9       17.8      21.6     24.2
National savings                    11,078   13,784   15,655   17,722  17,482    27,933     17.0        5.8        9.0       16.9      20.9     23.1
MERCHIANDISE TRADE                            AUmual data at current prices                                                   As Percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                      1,241    1,734    2,143   3,108    3.569     7,522     31.0       14.3       16.7      42.8       24.8     36.1
Intermediate goods (excl.fuels)    1,210    1,451   2,233    5,091    4,636     7,343     57.0       -5.4       12.6      35.2       40.6     35.3
Fuels and related materials          316     449      727    2,812    3,022     4,344     63.0        5.6        8.5       9.4       22.4     20.9
of which: Petroleum                251      344     605    2,495    2,650     3,711     71.0        4.3        8.1       6.9       19.9     17.8
Consumption goods                   478      598     1,089   1,519    1,221     1,610     42.0      -11.0        6.7      15.0       12.1      7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)    3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530  12,448    20,819     50.0        1.9       12.5     100.0      100.0    1OO;0
Exports
Primary products (exel. fuela)     2,315    3,063   4,718    5,606    6,987    13,142     25.0       17.0       14.4      84.8       70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials           19       36      52       65       70       101     55.0        7.4        7.7                  0.8      0.5
of which:  Petroleum                 8       16       16      30       30        40       .          .          .        0.4        0.4      0.2
Manufactured goods                   570     892     1,429   2,297    2,793     8,231     55.0       22.5       24.0      14.8       28.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)    2,904    3,991    6,199    7,968   9,850    21,474     31.0       18.6       17.7     100.0      100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                1973-100
Export price index                    67       73      100     134      140       201     18.4        4.6        8.2
Import price index                    77      82      100      145      158       216     14.3        7.9        6.4
Terma of trade index                  87      89       100      93       88        93
Export volume index                   71      88      100       96      113       172     10.0       13.7        8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2               Annual data at 1973 Prices and exchange rates                                         As percent of CDP
Agriculture                          8,850    9,212    9,535   10,346   10,760    13,995     6.8        4.5        5.5      14.6       15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                 15,875   18,066  20,776   22,480   23,222    32,805     12.0        4.2        7.7      32.7       32.8     33.6
Services                            25,554   28,i32  32,140   35,620   36,860    50,777     11.1        4.3        7.0      52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                               50,279  55,1310   62,451  68,446    70,842   97,577     11.0        4.2        7.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                         Annual dslta at 1973 Prices and exchanxe rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                   6,168    7,316   8,629    9,757   10,399    15,540     16.9        6.2        9.0       9.4       11.5     12.8
Current expenditures               3,553    3,558   4,227    4,577    5,032     7,107      8.5        9.1        6.9       5.9        5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                   2,615    3,:'58  4,402    5,180    5,367     8,433     28.0        3.5       11.0       3.5        6.1      7.0
Other public saving                3,393    3,669    4,832    5,825   6,348    10,510     15.5        9.0       10.7       5.0        6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment     6,404   8,037    8,705    9,667   10,344    15,198     15.8        7.5        8.0       9.8       11.4     12.6
US$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR             at 1973 Prices and ER
INVESTKENT PROGRAM                        1971-74  7 of Total
Social Sectors                            4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                 187        0.5
Industry and Mining                       6,060       15.2
Power                                     5,499       13.8
Transport and Comunications               7,384       18.6
Regional development                      1.441        3.6
Other /3                                 14,712       37.0
Total expenditure                        39,787      100.o
FINANCING
Public sector savings                  33,674       84.b
Foreign borrowings (net)                5,762       14.5
Domestic borrowings                       351        0.9
Total financing                        39,787      100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTpUT PER WORKER                Total labor force                 Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In  millions       o 0f>total      1960-70      In U.S. dollars     2 of average        1960-70
1960    1970    19619   7970    Growth rate      1960      1970     1960    1970     Grorth rate
Agriculture                          12.2    13.1   54.0    44.4         0.7          __        402      __       33         __
Industry                             3.0     5.3    13.3    18.0         5.8          __      2,222      --      182         -_
Service                              7.4    11.1    32.7    37.6         4.1          --      1.706      __      140         -_
Total                                22.6    29.5   100.0  100.0         3.1          --      1,220      --      100         --
not applicable
not available
LI The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 cenaus. GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20X, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3 Includes financial investment.
May 14, 1975



ANNEX I
BAIANce OF PAYKMEVNI. XIInNL ASSiSTANCE AND DEBT                                      P   {ge  li of    ji
(In millions of L'.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual               stimSted                                   Projected
1971      1972      1973        i7r      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1985
SUMMYT BALANCE OF PAYMENT5S48
Exports (Imcl. OF7)                   3,175     4,272     6,596      8,568     10,614    12,116    14,001     16,422     19,507     23,274      32,48
j1qfljjjeci.jcl4.                     4 028     5.205     7.577     .14J5     14.536     15.228    jjJ5       18.663     20.965     24,308     50,26
Resource balance 1-N)                - 853     - 933     _ 981      -6,017    -3,922    -3,112     -2,653     -2,261     -1,458     -1,034      2,224
Interest (net)                       - 302     -  359, - 514         - 650     -1.273    -1,469    -1,747     -2.009     -2,272     -2,503      -3,053
Direct invssment income              -166      -  202    - 220       -  240    - 270     -  304    - 342      -  384     - 432      - 486       - 877
Workers' remittance                      -         -          -          -         -                   -          -           -          -          -
Current Transfers (net)                  14         5         27         23        40        50        50         50         50         50          50
BRlanca on current account           -1 .30  71,489          0       -6a       -5 48_    -4.1      -_4J       -4 69      -_-4.113   -_3.9 74    -1 .6C56
Private direct investment               168       318       940        845        940     1,035     1,135      1,275      1,435       1,615      2,908
MedIum- and long-tem loans
DLsbursements                         835     1,099     1,376      1,800      2,025     2,226     2,443      2,654      3,004      3,397       6,218
-Repayments                         - 441     - 525     - 670      -   720   -   779    -  745    -  793     - 868      -1.062     -1,282      -2,867
Net disbursements                       394       574       106       1,080     1,245     1,481     1,650      1,786      1,942      2,115       3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                       1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017      3,819     4,509     5,054      5,258      5,386      5,587       1,524
-Repayments                         - 641     - 860     -1 058     -1.300     -1,579    -2.190    -2.946     -3 715     -4.130     -4.500      -4,404
Net disbursements                        01     2,536      2,3        3,717     2,240     2,319     2,107      1,53       1,255       1,080     -2,88D
Capital transactions n.e.i.             504       626       377         194        -         -         -          -          -           -          -
Change in reserves (-=increase)      -  560    -2,565    -2,428       1,049     1,000        -         -          -      -  519      - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMHITMENTS                                                                                                  Actual               Estimated
1971       1972       1973        1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                      Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                  256       455       199                    and disbursed               4,122      5,509      6,496       9,096
1DB                                   133       I1O       250                  Interest on public debt         211        296         440        619
Governments                           199       249        270                 Repayment on public debt        608         758        953      1.081
Suppliers                             324       350        775                 Total public debt service(gross)819      1,054       1,393      1,700
Bonds                                  -         -         80                  Other debt service (grosal      607        820       1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                          121       100        110        _        Total debt service (net)L/    1,384       1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-tem   loans    1,033      1,334     1,684                 Brden em export erairngs 
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                   Actual debt outatanding on Marcb 31. 1974
Yublic debt service               25.8       24.7       20.06      17,4
Disbursed only             Percent  Total debt service                43.6       40.8        34.0       31.2
I1RD                                              708                    10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.               48.8       45.6        37.3       34.0
Governmnents                                     10,8                   25 8    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                        1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                             149                     2.1    Int. as 7 prior year DO & D       6.0         7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                               2,875                    40.5    Amrt. as 7. prior year DO & D    17.4       18.4        17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                273                     3.8
Total public debt                               7,095                   100.0   IRD debt outs. & disbursed      347        484         647        872
IBRD as 7. public debt 0 & D      8.4         8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as % total debt 0 7 D        5.2         5.0        5.1        5.0
IBRD as % public debt service     4.2         4.8        5.0        4.3
IB0D as 7 total debt service       Z.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
/I Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                         May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31,1976)
Loan                                                         Amount Less    Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                     Purpose  Cancellations   bursed
(U'i$ million)
Twenty-Four Loans Fully Disbursed                                6'6.9
403    1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0       0.1
474 /1 1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreit.o II                       Power         39.0       b.7
565    1968    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Porto Colombia                     Power         22.3       0.6
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande              Power         26.6       0.8
677    1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0        5.8
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0       14.9
755    1971    Brazil                               Education      8.4        4.4
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports         45.0       34.6
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0       12.6
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control       12.0       6.1
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways      46.0        5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry      64.5        7.4
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
- Gerais                            Industry       63.0      13.2
813    1972    Brazil                               Roads         89.0        5.6
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry       64.5       10.1
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                Power         60.MO       17.3
853    1972    Brazil                               Land Settl.     6.7        6.1
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                           Amount Less   Undis-
No.     Year           Borrower                      Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
854     1972     Brazil                              Roads           51.0        4.8
857     1972     Banco do Brasil                     Grain Storage   23.7        6.4
868     1972     Brazil                              Livestock       26.0        6.1
887     1973     LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade      Power           20.0       18.0
923     1973     Furnas Centrais Eletricas
Itumbiara                         Power          125.0       105.4
924     1973     Brazil                              Agro-Indus.     54.0       40.9
1008    1974     Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV         Power           81.0        81.0
1009    1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply    36.0       35.1
1067    1974     Brazil                              Education       23.5       23.4
1074    1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways       175.0      174.7
1075    1975     Brazil                              Roads          110.0       104.7
1151 /1 1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional      Industry        95.0        95.0
1152    1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista      Industry        60.0       60.0
1153    1975     Brazil                              Agriculture     23.0       23.0
1171    1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista            Railways        75.0        75.0
1195 /1 1976     State of Rio Grande do Norte        Rural Develop. 12.0         12.0
1206 /1 1976     Brazil                              Develop. Bank   85.0       85.0
1207 /1 1976    Banco Nacional do
Desenvolvimento Economico             Highways       55.0        55.0
Total                                             2,563.1 /2 1,151.0
Of which has been repaid to the Bank and others     292.7
Total now outstanding                             2,270.4
Amount Sold                          38.5
of which has been repaid           10.3            28.2
Total now held by Bank                            2,242.2
Total undisbursed                                             1,151.0
/1   Not effective as of March 31, 1976.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF NAUCH 31. 1976}
Year                                     Obligor                            Type of Business                                  Amount in us$ million
Loans    Equity  Total
1957                          Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade        Electrical Equipment                               2.00      -      2.00
1958                          Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel              Pulp and Paper                                     1.20      -      1.20
1958                          D.L.R.Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.               Automotive Parts                                   0.45      -      0.45
1958                          Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                        Motor Vehicles                                    2.45      -      2.45
1959                          Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.   Cement                                             1.20      -      1.20
1959                           Champion Celulose, S.A.                      Pulp                                               4.00      -      4.00
1966/1968/
1972                           Acos Villares, S.A.                          Steel                                              8.00    1.93     9.93
1966/1969                      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.           Pulp and Paper                                     4.06    3.13     7.19
1967/1972                      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                               Fertilizers                                       8.22    3.03     11.25
1969                           Petroquimica Unia,n, S.A.                    Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1970                          Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio       Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1971                          Oxiteno, S.A. Ind&stria e Comercio            Petrochemicals                                     4.60    1.44     6.04
1971                           Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.       Pulp                                               4.90      -      4.90
1972/1975                      Companhia de Cimerito Nacional de Minas      Cement                                            29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974                      Companhia SiderurEica da Guanabara - COSICUA  Steel                                            67.00    6.50    73.50
1973                           Capital Market De%elopment Fund - FUMCAP     Capital Market Development                         5.00      -      5.00
1973                           Empresa de Desenvclvimento de Recursos       Nickel Mining and Refining                        26.00    4.40    30.40
Minerais - CODEBIN, S.A.
1974                           Industrias Villares, S.A.                    Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                                        6.00      -      6.00
1974                          Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.              Textiles                                          31.00      -     31.00
1975                           Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.            Carbon Black                                       6.18    1.08     7.26
1975                           Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                       Petrochemicals                                    10.00      -     10.00
Total Gross Coemitments                                                                       232.40   30.47   262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                        171.84    8.09    179.93
Total Commitments low Held by IFC                                                              60.56   22.38    82.94
Total Undisbursed                                                                               17.68   0.80     18.48



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1976)
There are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:    US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 18, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Changes in the project layout and
design have increased substantially the local cost, which will
be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however, significantly affect-
ing the economic justification for the project. Construction
work is completed. The Closing Date of the project was postponed
from March 31, 1975, the original date, to December 31, 1975, to
allow for disbursement of retention payments.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:    US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the resulting unit cost
of generating capacity is still attractive. The Closing Date of
the Loan was postponed a second time to June 30, 1976, to permit
payments to continue on several purchases already placed. The
original Closing Date was January 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNF.X II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project-has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimiate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:    US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun of about
US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:    December 31, 1977.   Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port PrDject:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, withl the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Pauio Water Supply Project:    US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1976. The pro:ject suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not iurnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget.   The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESI', and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. Progress of the project
is expected to improve with new management of the company which took
office recently. The original Closing Date was June 30,
1975.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge oE raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. Progress of the project is expected
to improve-with new management which took office recently. The
original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$653 million, an in-
crease of about 65% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 75%
complete and is about ten months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$952 million, an
increase of about 67% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 80% complete and is
about nine months behind the original schedule. Implementation of
Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$733
million, an increase of about 55% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 70% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:    US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:    US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978.  COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit componeat, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be signifLcantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff dlelayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:    US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972:; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31,19. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11%,above the appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted ba]ance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the
loan is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:    US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prih-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:    US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:    US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The Central Bank expects to complete commitment of project
funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:    US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule and the
loan has been fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected
to be completed by the target date. Project implementation units have
been established in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project executLon is progressing reasonably well and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items.    The Borrower
is therefore preparing a revised Plan in which items with low prior-
ity will be postponed or scaled-down. This revision is not expected
to affect the project items. Tendering for Bank-financed items is
on schedule.
1075      Fifth Highway l'roject:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:' May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule.    Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.,
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:    US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1S975; Effective Date:  March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Project is proceeding according to
schedule. Bidding for equipment is underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:    US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAIL - FERTILIZER PROJECT
Loan and ProJect Summary
Borrower:            Petrobra9 Fertilizantes,  S.A.
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:              US$5() million equivalent.
Terms:               Payable in 15 years, including 4h years of grace, at 8%
interest per annum.   Guarantee fee of 1V  payable to Brazil.
Proiect
Descriptions         The project consists of the construction of an ammonia
plant at Araucaria, Parana, with a manufacturing capacity
of about 1,200 metric tons per day, including an air
separation plant and facilities to store about 5,000
metric tons of ammonia; an adjacent plant to manufacture
urea, with a capacity of about 1,500 metric tons per day,
including facilities to store about 30,000 metric tons
of buiLk and bagged urea; a sulfur recovery unit with a
capacity of about 58 metric tons per day; and related
ancillary facilities. The project also includes cons-
truction and equipment of the necessary laboratories,
offices and maintenance shops.
Estimated Costs                           US$ million
Foreign    Local   Total    %
Equipment and lMaterials              74.8      44.8   119.6    62
Engineering andi Licenses              9.8       6.1    15.9    8
Land and Civil Works                   2.2      13.9    16.1    9
Erection, Supervision and
Pre-Operating Costs                  7.9      32.8    40.7   22
Base Cost Esbimates                 94.7      97.6   192.3 100
Physical Contingencies (10.5%)         8.0       8.2    16.2
Price Escalation (14%)                12X5              2 i
Installed Co0t                     115.2     119.6   234.8
Working CapitaL                        6.5       6.9    13.4
Interest During Construction          18.3       5.4    23.7
Financing Required                 140.0     131.9   271.9



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
IBRD                               50.0
BNDE                               55.0
Supp]iws' Credits                  35.0
Foreign Private Lenders            20.0
Equity Contribution from
PETROERAS                       111.9
271.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                       US$ million by calendar year
1976     1977     1978     1979     1980
Annually     10.0     15.0     20.0      b .0     1.0
Cumulative   10.0     25.0     45.0     49.0     50.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        For goods to be financed under the proposed loan,
procurement would follow Bank guidelines. The proceeds
of the Bank loan would finance expenditures for:
(a) equipment and materials procured through international
competitive bidding (US$26.0 million); (b) imported
items and packages costing US$100,000 or less procured
through international shopping (US$3.4 million); (c) pro-
prietary, limited or long delivery items critical to the
timely completion of the project, also procured through
international shopping (US$7.0 million); (d) foreign
licenses, engineering and supervision services (US$11.6
million); and (e) local engineering services (US$2.0
million).
Technical
Assistance:          PETROBRAS has engaged engineering consultants (Uhde and
Lurgi of the Federal Republic of Germany) to provide
basic engineering. Detailed engineering will be provided
by NATRON, a Brazilian firm. The estimated cost of
engineering and supervision services range from US$3,8O0
to US$4,500 per man/month of local personnel and from
Us$5,500 to US$8,000 for man/month of foreign personnel
(in end of 1975 wage levels), exclusive of travel and
subsistence allowance.
Rate of Return:      The estimated economic rate of return is 24%.
Completion Date:     Project completion expected July 1, 1979.
Staff Project
Report:              Report No. 1050-BR dated April 23, 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
FERTILIZER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by Country to Prepare the Project:  Approximately
six months (from March 1975 to September 1975).
(b)  Project prepared by: The Engineering Department of PETROBRAS
with assistance of the engineering firms Uhde and Lurgi of
the Federal Republic of Germany.
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: May 1975
First Bark mission to consider the project: June 1975
(d) Departure: of Appraisal Mission: September 23, 1975'
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  April 9, 1976
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 18, 1976
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Borrower shall at all times after the completion of the
Project maintain a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 or better and
a current ratio of not less than 1.2:1 (para. 47).
(ii) The Borrower shall not pay dividends (other than dividends
for jpreferred shares), prepay any loan or make any cash
distmibution if after such payments the current ratio would
be smaller than 1.5:1 (para. 47).
(iii)  The Borrower will not incur any debt if after the incurrence
thereof its projected debt service coverage ratio would fall
belou 1.5:1 (para. 47).
(iv) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with PETROBRAS
regarding the supply and pricing of feedstock and of the
utilities from the PETROBRAS refinery (para. 36).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(v) PETROBRAS shall provide sufficient funds to the Borrower
as required to enable the Borrower to carry out the Project
and to obtain on the date of ProJect Completion a debt/equity
ratio not greater than 60:40 and a current ratio not lower
than 1.2:1 (para. 43).
(vi) PETROBRAS shall refinance any repayment of principal of any
credit or loans that would become payable by the Borrower
before the completion of the Project (para. 41).
(vii)  The Government shall carry out or cause to be carried out
a study of projected supply and demand for fertilizers in
Brazil and of the requirements for further investments in
facilities for manufacturing, mixing, storing, transporta-
tion and marketing of fertilizers and shall propose a
mechanism to update the forecast of supply and demand and
related data periodically. The Government shall exchange
views with the Bank on the results and recommendations of
the fertilizer study, on the Government's fertilizer import
and pricing policies and its plans for the expansion and
development of the fertilizer industry (para. 29).
(viii)  The Government will not take any action with regard to the
price of ammonia, urea, and feedstock that may prevent
BRASFERTIL, operating efficiently, from covering its costs,
servicing its debts, and earning a reasonable return on its
invested capital (para. 50).



IBRD-12055
Cor,hbbs- Soo                                                                4                     MARCH 1976
50'                       x               0
#,.,,4xA,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI                L.,sfbUre
2 -  B ^  jSobrd  FORTALEZA
:    9,. a                                                   TERESINA  -Crote s   Mooro A  Morou
c  ,; E f  RE4 O MAiBRAZIL                                             sut    J      -NAL
L ,-,~EA O~MAP            MAJOR      FERTILIZER    PLANTS                   Ao         Po,
'i (  f   A. r 3 ,'                             NITROGEN  PHOSPHATE            SoIgaeiroctN....  GComnd
II (t                        PROPO0ED           A       *
Oceon                UNDER CONSTRUCTION  A      OE
OPERArING                 *                   P*f  loth.  A-o.,de
- RAILROADS                                          dos Ind.o,
V5, b u,dzla   -o hi, .rb   do                                                                   Etr  -   N
bapty =eduora.t  -aorvr e by ,e  - --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              Sonhor    Col4gro
WtorldB-k-di- llm                                                   Fcrms ad I  aomf- aP   pri
10-                                                                                        R AACAJL    lo-
Sao mFoc.. r
BRASILIA            me A-1
GOIANIA
\>>                        ~~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~~      ~~do R.o c.do po  0-ne Coo 
arumI AEnceun0                            \                      G
C.-bo                                                         G-
* ~  ~     ~~~        39,,. 'onc"mL'JL     - 0l 15.* 0rr  J ih O t  ->IOI
, . I.d.  
~~~~~~~~C.           S.   F6 doSu  i s e'al :!Coiw -_r,-
b  J G oi~~~~,oo i-sn tt {     Co;l-b. FtI';
T, Logoci.'          G.4;
USIer ~ ~ gt           Nt      .tI
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :~~'~
Epa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                     3     D      0



