CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1256 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Fertilizer Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 19, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1976, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Petrobr6s Fertilizantes S.A. (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Borrower's agree-
ment to pay to the Guarantor a fee of 1-1/2% per annum of the equiv-
alent in cruzeiros in currency of the Guarantor on the disbursed
balance outstanding of the Loan, has agreed so to guarantee such
obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE tha parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premiu., if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Bor-
rower, including those provided pursuant to the PETROBRAS Share-
holder Agreement, will be inadequate to meet the estimated expen-
ditures required for the timely carrying out of the Project, to
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance of such im-
port and other pernits and licenses as shall be necessary for the
acquisition and importation of the goods and services required for
the carrying out of the Project.
*    Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause PETROBRAS punctually
to perform all its obligations under the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall not take or permit to be
taken any action with regard to the price of petroleum feedstock
used by the amonia plant included in the Project and the price
of ammonia and urea, that may prevent the Borrower, operating ef-
ficiently, from covering all its costs, servicing its debt, and
earning a reasonable return on its invested capital.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to present to the
Bank the results of a study on its fertilizer sector which the
Guarantor intends to promptly carry out or cause to be carried
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Guarantor and the
Bank. Such study shall: (i) include projections of demand and supply
of fertilizer in Brazil; (ii) propose a mechanism to update peri-
odically these projections; (iii) determine the requirements for
further investments in facilities for manufacturing, mixing,


﻿-5-
storing, transporting and marketing fertilizers; and (iv) analyze
fertilizer availability and use, including prices and subsidies,
credit requirements, and the effects of cropping patterns and farm
size and location on fertilizer use.
(b) The Guarantor shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to exchange views on the results and recommendations of
such study, on the Guarantor's fertilizer import and pricing poli-
cies, and on the Guarantor's plans for the expansion and develop-
ment of the fertilizer industry.
Section 3.05. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control o:, for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guar-
antor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
01


﻿-6-
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property; and
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edif'cio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Waghington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
/s/ Shigeaki Ueki
By /s/ Luiz Alberto Americano
Authorized Representatives
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


