CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1256 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fertilizer Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A.
Dated May 19, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PETROBRAS" means Petr*leo Brasileiro S.A.
(b) "PETROBRIS Shareholder Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and PETROBRAS whereby PETROBRAS
agrees, inter alia, to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the provisions of funds to the Borrower for the Project.
(c) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more sub-
sidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of its
subsidiaries.


﻿-3-
(d) "Estatutos" means the estatutos set forth in the escri-
tura de constituiç'o da sociedade Petrobr's Fertilizantes S.A.
dated March 24, 1976.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referr'd
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 hereto, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, and civil works (if any), to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.


﻿0                                  -5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) If the Borrower shall repay or otherwise settle for a
consideration (except by exchanging long-term debt of the Borrower
for shares in the Borrower's capital), in advance of maturity any
part of its debt maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date of its original incurrence, the Borrower shall, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, simultaneously prepay a propor-
tionate amunt of the Loan then outstanding.


﻿- 6 -                                   S
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Foject with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engi-
neering, financial, and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are car-
ried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors,
and to that end, the Borrower shall monitor and treat effectively
the ecologically harmful discharge from the Project facilities.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon request, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to reflect the progress and cost of the Project, and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall, with-
out limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Sec-
tion, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank


﻿S --
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and shall furnish to the Bank all
such information relating thereto as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to their acquisition, transportation and delivery to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
is


﻿-8-                                     0
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, carry out its operations, plan the development of its
business and undertaking, and maintain its financial position,
all in accordance with sound industrial, financial and administra-
tive practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and shall, from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and (ii) not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets required for the efficient carrying out of its business
and undertaking, including the carrying out of the Project, except
in the normal course of its business or with the prior agreement
of the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary: (i) to maintain its right to carry on its operations,
including the Project; and (ii) to acquire and retain such land
and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the construction and operation of the Project and the
conduct of its business and undertaking.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound industrial insurance
practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall inform the Bank before es-
tablishing or acquiring any Subsidiary or making any substantial
financial commitment on or with regard to any Subsidiary.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank! (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall create any lien, or if any
statutory lien shall be created, on any assets of the Borrower as


﻿*                          -11 -
security for any debt, the Borrower shall forthwith create, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien, satisfactory to the Bank, to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any 7len created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value any
shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b) (i) at all times after the completion of the Project,
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.2:1, and (ii) not pay dividends (other than dividends
payable in shares in the Borrower's capital or dividends on the
preferred shares of the Borrower issued in accordance with the
Estatutos), or prepay any loans other than the Loan, or prepay
part of the outstanding amount of the Loan or make any other lash
distribution, if after such payments such ratio would be smaller
than 1.5:1;
(c) at all times after the completion of the Project, main-
tain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 60:40; and


﻿-12 -                                 0
(d) not incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof its
projected debt service coverage ratio would fall below 1.5 for
any fiscal year after the completion of the Project, taking into
account the debt to be incurred.
For purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Burrower and
maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a
loan contract, on the date it is drawn down but only
to the extent that it is outstanding, and (2) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date such agreement
is entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) "debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio be-
tween the reasonably estimated net revenues for
any fiscal year and the aggregate amount of amorti-
zation (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt payable
in the same fiscal year;
(iv) "equity" means the sum of the Borrower's unimpaired
paid-in share capital, surplus and reserves not
allocated to specific liabilities; provided, how-
ever, that if the Borrower, at the time, has any
Subsidiary, there shall be excluded therefrom such
is


﻿-13-
items as shall represent equity interests of the
Borrower in any Subsidiary or of any Subsidiary
in the Borrower or in any other Subsidiary;
(v) "net revenues" means gross revenue from all sources
less all operating and administrative expenses, and
amounts paid or to be paid within the year on account
of taxes; provided that the operating and administrative
expenses shall not include interest and other charges
on debt, and provisions for depreciation of assets;
(vi) "current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months, less an appropriate reserve
for bad debts, prepaid expenses, and inventories and
all other assets, excluding spare parts, which could
in the ordinary coui-se of business, be converted
within twelve months into cash;
(vii) "current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income
taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other liabilities
due and payable, or which could be called for pay-
ment, within twelve months; and
(viii) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor obligations
denominated in another currency, such valuation
shall be made using the rates of exchange provided
by the Banco Central do Brasil.


﻿-14 -
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with PETROBRAS for the purposes set forth in Section 4 of
the PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce any provision thereof.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall punctually pay to the Guar-
antor the fee referred to in the Preamble to the Guarantee Agree-
ment.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section .6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) PETROBRAS shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement; and
(c) the right of the Borrower to utilize the funds provided
under the PETROBRAS Shareholder Agreement shall have been suspended
or cancelled, in whole or in part.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in Section 6.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
(b) any debt for money borrowed by the Borrower with an orig-
inal maturity of one year or more shall have become due and payable
before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms thereof.


﻿-16 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement on behalf of PETROBRAS have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;
(b) on behalf of PETROBRAS, that the PETROBRAS Shareholder
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all corporate
and governmental action, and is legally binding upon PETROBRAS
in accordance with its terms; and


﻿-17 -
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Bor-
rower to perform all of the obligations of the Borrower in this
Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof relating
to procurement of goods for the Project) together with all neces-
sary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly
and validly performed or given and that no other such acts, con-
sents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carry-
ing out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all
of the obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The date August 17, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -                                      0
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Petrobrfs Fertilizantes S.A.
Avenida Chile, 65
Rio de Janeiro, RJ 20000
Brazil
Cable address:                Telex:
PETROBRAS                     (021)22573
Rio de Janeiro


﻿-19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTERS S.A.
/s/ Porthos Augusto de Lima
By Is/ Leonel Finotti
Authorized Representatives


﻿- 20 -                                      0
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare           33,000,000        100% of foreign
parts, and mater-                            expenditures or
ials                                        100% of the ex-
factory cost of
goods manufac-
tured in Brazil
(2) Foreign licenses           10,000,000        100% of foreign
and engineering                              expenditures
services
(3) Local engineering           2,000,000        65%
services
(4) Unallocated                 5,000,000
TOTAL      50,000,000


﻿-21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of, and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of, any country other than
the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $3,500,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1976; and
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.


﻿-22 -
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
0


﻿*                                      -23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the construction of an ammonia plant,
at Araucaria, Parang, with a manufacturing capacity of about 1,200
metric tons per day, including an air separation plant and facili-
ties to store about 5,000 metric tons of ammonia; an adjacent plant
to manufacture urea, with a capacity of about 1,500 metric tons per
day, including facilities to store about 30,000 metric tons of bulk
and bagged urea; a sulfur recovery unit with a capacity of about 58
metric tons per day; and related ancillary facilities. The Project
also includes construction and equipment of the necessary laborato-
ries, offices, and maintenance shops.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 1979, and
will be deemed to be complete only when the facilities included
in it shall have been in satisfactory operation for not less than
sixty consecutive days at an average production rate of not less
than 80% of their respective designed capacities.


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1981                                1,415,000
August 15, 1981                                  1,48o,ooo
February 15, 1982                                1,54o,ooo
August 15, 1982                                  1,605,000
February 15, 1983                                1,675,000
August 15, 1983                                  1v745,000
February 15, 1984                                1,825,000
August 15, 1984                                  1,895,000
February 15, 1985                                1,980,000
August 15, 1985                                  2,060,000
February 15, 1986                                2,150,000
August 15, 1986                                  2,240,000
February 15, 1987                                2,340,000
August 15, 1987                                  2,435,000
February 15, 1988                                2,540,000
August 15, 1988                                  2,645,000
February 15, 1989                                2,760,000
August 15, 1289                                  2,880,000
February 15, 1990                                3,000,000
August 15, 1990                                  3,125,000
February 15, 1991                                3,260,000
August 15, 1991                                  3,405,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
Genefakl Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                       7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                         8-1/2%


﻿- 26                                        0
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, the equipment and mate-
rials shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
The Borrower may procure:
(i) such proprietary, limited, and long-delivery
equipment required for the timely execution of
the Project as the Bank and the Borrower shall
agree, after obtaining quotations from a reason-
able number of capable suppliers, as shall be
agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower; and
(ii) imported equipment and materials estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent after obtain-
ing quotations from a reasonable number of capable
suppliers;
provided that the aggregate cost of the items procured under
this paragraph B shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,400,000.


﻿)                                      -27 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the f.o.b. (port of shipment) and the c.i.f. (port of entry) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manu-
factured goods; and (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, including merchant fleet renewal and port improve-
ment taxes, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied
goods, shall be excluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that such goods contain components manu-
factured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of
the value of the complete goods.


﻿- 28-
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes)
on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods
to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated bid
of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding: (1) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods in each group B
bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
B bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (2)
to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically offered
in each group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be
levied on the goods offered in such group B bid if they originated
from the same foreign country as the goods included in the group
B bid which is subject to the lowest customs duties and other
import taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the
lowest, it shall be selected for purpose of award; if not, lowest
evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.


﻿*                            -29-
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   The Borrower shall, before initiating procurement of equip-
ment, including the preparation of the list of suppliers, inform
the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
*         contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more:
(a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time to enable the Bank to comment thereon, the text of the invi-
tations to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 30-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's agreement, materially differ from those on which
bids were invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivering
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to delivering to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with


﻿-31 -
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   For bid comparison purposes there shall be used the rates of
exchange provided by the Banco Central do Brasil.


