L~~n~~   DLV?       T ~~ Documnent Of
TeWoirR Bank
Fom cZ¢aL U$EZ OMILY
e3 No. P-2004a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
FERTILIZANTES DO VALE DO RIO GRANDE S.A. - VALEFERTIL
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
VALEFERTIL PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER PROJECT
April 13, 1977
1MDs nfflmmmena h a 9¢t             Insaakatom ai may be wi$ed by ire1ijenpo omly 6un GAe piaoimnce Of
atehir omefd unmgm. ll enmeeml may Boa eacbeirse be o lleDl wao&mq we3Yil 1IE ZM3 aboon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 9, 1977)
Currency Unit                                  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                           Cr$12098
Cr$                                            US$.0770
Cr$1OOO                                        US$77 04
Cr$1,OOO,000                                   US$77,042
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDA          Associacao Nacional Para Diffusao Adubos
ARAFERTIL     Araxa Fertilizantes S.A.
BNDE          Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
CVRD          Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
DAP           Diammonium Phosphate
FEPASA        FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista S.A.
FINAME        Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial - FINAME
FLUOR         Fluor Latin America (U.S.A.)
HPY           Hours Per Year
MAP           Monoammonium Phosphate
NATRON        NATRON Consultoria e Projetos S.A.
NFP           National Fertilizer Program
NPK           Nitrogen (N), Phosphate (P205) and Potassium (K20) Nutrients
P             Phosphate
P205          Phosphorus Pentoxide Content in Fertilizers
TPD           Tons (Metric) Per Day
TPY           Tons (Metric) Per Year
TSP           Triple Superphosphate
VALEFERTIL    Fertilizantes Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
VALEP         Mineracao Vale do Paranaiba S.A.
Brazilian Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO FERTILIZANTES VALE DO RIO GRANDE S.A. - VALEFERTIL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE VALEFERTIL PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Fertilizantes Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL (VALEFERTIL) with
the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$82
million to help finance a phosphate fertilizer project. The loan would be for
15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 8.20% per annum. The
Government of Brazil would charge VALEFERTIL a guarantee fee of 1.80% per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan bringing the cost of the loan
to VALEFERTIL to 10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1267a-BR), dated
January 26, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 8,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth in
GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance of payments perfor-
mance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967-73 and a process
of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence upon
coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the same
time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the early 70s
prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable improve-
ment upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation minimized the
distortions which often accompany inflation (while the indexing also tends to
perpetuate inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at a strong
9.5% in that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-
payments performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The
continuation of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to
US$4.7 billion. The elimination of that deficit, and the reestablishment
of the previous near equilibrium in merchandise trade has been a major
objective of economic policy since that time and continues to be a major
policy objective today.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5.        Growth since 1974 has been deeply affected by balance-of-payments
constraints. In 1975 GDP increased by only 4% and the trade deficit was
reduced to US$3.5 billion. Unaccustomed to such a relatively low growth rate,
however, the Government feared that Brazil might be heading for a recession
and once again adopted more expansionary policies towards the end of 1975. As
a result of these policies, and notwithstanding subsequent measures introduced
during the course of 1976 to control the situation, growth last year reached
8.8%. It is remarkable that despite such a high rate of GDP growth, the trade
deficit was reduced further to US$2 billion. This was due to a rapid 17%
growth in export earnings while imports were practically unchanged from the
previous year. The exceptionally high level of imports in previous years and
the increasing effectiveness of the Government's import-substitution program
made possible a high level of growth in 1976 without any further expansion
in imports over the level of the previous year.
6.        The acceleration of growth in 1976 was not without its cost, however.
The high level of aggregate demand associated with the Government's expan-
sionary policies in late 1975 contributed significantly to higher inflation.
Domestic prices rose by 46% in 1976 compared with 28% in the previous year.
This was a disturbing departure from the much lower levels of inflation that
had characterized the early 1970s. The Government is concerned that prices
do not get out of hand and control of inflation has now been adopted as a
major policy objective alongside control of the balance of payments.
7.        During the course of 1976, measures were introduced on a number of
fronts to curb inflationary pressures. Half way through the year the official
wage guidelines were modified in such a way as to reduce wage increases below
the current rate of inflation. In the field of monetary policy, commercial
bank reserve requirements were progressively raised from 27% to the legal
maximum of 35%, and the Central Bank's rediscount rate was raised from 22% to
28%. Stiffer terms were decreed for installment credit and for real estate
credit, and there was an upward shift in the overall interest rate structure.
In response to these quite stringent measures inflation abated in the final
quarter of the year to a rate equivalent to some 30% on an annual basis.
Whether or not the Government will continue to make headway against inflation
during 1977 will depend in large measure upon its success in controlling the
expansion of money and credit.
8.        Fiscal policy is yet another area in which the Government has
announced measures designed to curb inflation. Plans have been drawn up to
reduce the gap between public sector investment and public sector savings
by some Cr$44 billion (in 1977 prices) -- equivalent to about 2.2% of GDP.
Measures to achieve this goal include the limitation of wage increases in 1977
to 30% for federal government employees. Strict controls are also being
imposed on the hiring of additional personnel. A number of subsidies have
been eliminated or reduced. In addition, the investment programs of state
enterprises are to be closely controlled, and the savings of such enterprises
will be increased by raising tariffs.



- 3 -
9.        The Government recognizes the need for growth to be moderated in
the next two or three years if inflation is to be kept under control, the
balance of payments is to be further improved and a sound basis for longer
term growth is to be established. In keeping with this view, it is projected
that growth may be in the order of 5% in 1977 and may average no more than 6%
during the remaining years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is
every indication that Brazil has the potential to sustain high levels of growth
similar to those in the past provided that the present difficulties can be
overcome and provided that sound economic policies are consistently pursued.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
10.       The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments'
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture has
received explicit recognition in the development land and the results achieved
during the last several years (particularly in soya production) justify the
priority given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising
the living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier
lands of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive
schemes have been introduced to encourage exports. The major thrust of
Brazil's industrial development strategy, however, concentrates upon massive
import-substitution programs in steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals,
fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of
these products by the early 1980s. Beyond that point these same industries
may develop a good export potential.
11.       Despite its previous impressive growth performance and vast future
potential, Brazil is still a country wih a very unequal distribution of income
and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the coun-
try's income distribution problem and accepts responsibility for its allevi-
ation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated
a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth." To
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs ini-
tiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
12.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to
include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that
the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore,



standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-
regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds
would be used initially. The Rio Grande do Norte project (Ln. 1195-BR approved
in December 1975) was one of the first under POLONORDESTE.
13.       Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the
state value-added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer
to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education. In
the area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to
extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The Government is
also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous Government,
got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the National
Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which will enjoy
better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also developing
a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help housing
by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agriculture,
the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and strengthen
its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the
new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program to
include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the Government's
public investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education,
health, agriculture and regional development, which together account for about
30% of total public investment. Finally, the Government intends to pursue a
more liberal wage policy to maintain the real value of the minimum wage and
improve personal income distribution. For this purpose it revised the formula
governing the adjustment of the union wage scale so that the real minimum wage
was increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in 1976. While in 1977 the Government
may be obliged to restrict wage increases as part of a policy package designed
to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does not signify any
basic change in the Government's longer term goal of improving income distri-
bution.
14.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion three-year average for
1974-76, it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term
capital (that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from offi-
cial and private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80.
15.       At June 30, 1976, Brazil's public external debt amounted to US$13
billion; the public debt service ratio for 1976 is estimated at 18%. Out of
the total (public and private) external debt of US$23.4 billion at mid-1976,
about two-thirds, or US$16 billion, was in the form of financial credits. The
debt service ratio during 1976 on this total external debt was about 44% (c.f.
an average of 42% in the previous three years). However, net foreign exchange
reserves at the end of 1976 were about US$6.0 billion, equivalent to some six



- 5 -
months of the 1976 imports of goods and non-factor services. The service
ratio on total debt is estimated to rise slightly further in the next two or
three years. However, if an export growth rate of around 17% per year in
dollar terms can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average maturi-
ties of new financial credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the
debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to return to the 44% level and to
continue falling in subsequent years to somewhat less than 30% in 1985.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange
reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its debt
service obligations in the short term, while the country's record of financial
management provides grounds for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthi-
ness over the longer run. There can be no doubt, however, that very careful
management of the external accounts will be necessary in the coming two to
three years.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By February 28, 1977 the Bank had approved 68 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$3,009.5 million, of which 37 were not fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an
average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million in
FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76. In the first half of
FY77 US$97.1 million has been disbursed. The decline in disbursements in FY76
was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements
are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1977 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-74
nine loans were approved amounting to US$429.7 million; in FY75, five loans
totalling US$426.5 million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million
were approved. So far in FY77 four loans have been approved: Us$40 million
for a second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, US$83 million
for a second agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for power trans-
mission in the south of Brazil, and US$42 million for an integrated rural
development project in the State of Mlinas Gerais. Documents for a proposed
loan of US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer project in the state of Sergipe
are being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. We are working
actively with the Brazilians on a project in support of a non-flat steel
plant, a pollution control project for the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo,
several rural development projects, a vocational education project, a highway
maintenance and rehabilitation project and a petrochemical project.
18.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue



-6-
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private)
external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
19.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of February 28, 1977, IFC had made 30 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$287.3 million of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled, US$23.3
million repaid and US$136.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$94.5 million,
US$70.0 million represents loans and US$24.5 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments up to February 28, 1977 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to support the
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the population,
to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. The recently approved loans for nutrition research and development,
agricultural research, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais integrated rural
development, and Lower Sao Francisco polders projects were all designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas.    Government authorities, with the
collaboration of Bank staff, are making a particular effort to help Brazil
develop additional integrated rural development projects of this type.     The
recently approved water supply and sewerage project for the State of Minas
Gerais was designed particularly to help reach low-income groups in towns and
cities as would proposed sites and services and water supply and pollution
control projects. lie are also actively working with the Government on the
preparation of vocational and rural education projects.
21.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed
project will contribute towards assisting a new company like VALEFERTIL to
build up its management team.   The institution-building objective has also
been important in Bank assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis
has been given to the rational selection of investment, the strengthening of
railway operations, and the improvement of the railways' financial performance.
Loans for electric power, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research
and extension and urban development also have important institution-building
objectives.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments in the past two years, this objective has been placed in



- 7 -
the forefront of the Government's economic policy. Bank support of fertilizer
projects such as the proposed project is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
has also supported this objective and much of the Bank assisted investment in
the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facili-
tate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel
expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets.
23.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and steel, the Bank's participation has
helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms. In the fertilizer sector Bank participation is also
expected to help Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources on favorable
terms. PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES S.A. is negotiating with a group of private
banks a loan of US$25 million for the Araucaria project which the Bank helped
finance with a US$50 million loan in 1976 (Ln. 1256-BR) and plans to do the
same for the Sergipe project. VALEFERTIL is negotiating with foreign private
banks and suppliers' loans totalling about US$24.0 million to complete the
financing plan for the proposed project.
PART III - INDUSTRY, AGRICULTURE, AND THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR IN BRAZIL
Industry and Agriculture
24.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the last few years. During 1967 to 1974 real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%. Industrial growth
decreased to 4% in 1975 as a result of balance-of-payment constraints and is
expected to be about 10% in 1976.- The most dynamic element of Brazil's
industrial expansion has been the production of consumer durables and capital
goods, which increased at an annual average rate of 18% during 1967 to 1974,
and now accounts for about 28% of total manufacturing production. On the
other hand, the slowest growing subsector has been the traditional consumer
goods industries (textiles, clothing, food products) whose share in manufac-
turing output declined from 36% in 1967 to 28% in 1974. Production of inter-
mediate goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber, semi-finished metals),
which account for 42% of manufacturing output, has increased at a good pace,
averaging 12% since 1967. Increased production of these intermediate goods,



however, has not been sufficient to cope with growth in domestic demand, and
imports are still significant, reaching US$4.1 billion in 1975 (excluding
petroleum) or 34% of total imports. There is, therefore, substantial oppor-
tunity for import substitution in this subsector of industry. The proposed
project is part of the Government's program to achieve self-sufficiency in
fertilizers in the next five to ten years.
25.       While the rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74
was spearheaded by accelerated industrial production, the agricultural sector
also performed well, providing an increasing share of Brazil's growing domes-
tic requirements for food and fibers as well as a rising export volume.
Agricultural output grew at a rate of about 6% per annum during 1967-74, and
at 3.4% in 1975, despite adverse climatic conditions in four out of seven
years. Part of this growth was due to substantial increases in the production
of new crops, such as soybeans in the south and southeast regions of Brazil.
Brazil has now become the world's largest producer of sugar, and it is the
second largest supplier of soybeans, while remaining the world's leading
coffee producer. While the sector's contribution to gross domestic product
has declined from about 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, it still accounts
for over 60% of the value of exports. Three commodities -- coffee, soybeans
and sugar -- generate 40% of total export earnings. IWhile coffee continues to
play an important role in the sector, accounting for about 12% of output, its
share in total exports has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 11% in 1975.
26.        In the past, Brazil's increasing agricultural output has resulted
mainly from expansions of the cultivated area. Although it is expected that
the area under cultivation will continue to expand, agricultural growth will
have to depend to an increasing extent on raising the productivity of pres-
ently cultivated areas. The Government has established a goal of 40% (7%
annually) of real increase in agricultural output for the 1975-79 period, with
the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and exporters
of foodstuffs.   The Government's strategy to achieve this objective has two
components. First, it has allocated substantial public resources to incor-
porate additional areas to agricultural production through programs such
as PIN (the National Integration Program) and the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO
programs which provide agricultural credit and financing of transport and
rural infrastructure and the like in the North and Center-West, respectively.
The goal of these programs is to expand agricultural area by 4% to 5% annually
and to encourage settlement to bring these areas into production as quickly as
possible. A second component of the Government strategy is to increase pro-
ductivity through modernization of agriculture and increased use of fertil-
izers and improved seeds. A substantial expansion in the supply of credit
and complementary technical asssistance for the purchase of modern agricul-
tural inputs is included in the Government program. These inputs should bring
about a 2% to 3% annual increase in productivity necessary to achieve the
overall growth target of 7% for the agriculture sector.     The proposed fertil-
izer project is an important component of the Government's program to achieve
these increases in agricultural productivity.



- 9 -
27.       Increased agricultural productivity is particularly important to
improve the income of small farmers as they are normally unable to increase
their income by expanding their areas under cultivation. To this effect, the
Government has introduced special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE.
It has also reorganized federal research and extension services to serve a
broader segment of the rural population. In addition, it operates a crop-
credit insurance scheme to insure farmers against a large portion of losses
resulting from natural disasters.
28.       The overall package of new programs reflects a shift in agricul-
tural policy in Brazil to place more emphasis on raising the productivity
of small farmers. The past orientation of the Government's agricultural
policies was predominantly toward the promotion and establishment of large
commercially oriented agricultural enterprises as the main vehicle for
developing the agricultural sector. It was feared that small-farmer programs
would absorb considerable public expenditure without a commensurate increase
in production. It was also assumed that large-scale agricultural, agro-
industrial and industrial development would generate more employment oppor-
tunities to absorb redundant or low productivity agricultural labor than any
program to assist small farmers directly. Previous efforts to help the rural
poor were often restricted to social services, whereas the Government's new
approach represents an attempt to achieve both distribution and production
ends. To be sure, no overnight eradication of rural poverty, which has been
endemic in some regions of Brazil, especially in the Northeast, for decades,
is likely to be forthcoming from these programs. Nevertheless, responsible
efforts to improve the productivity of Northeast agriculture together with
programs to increase industrial activity in the region already have resulted
in a more rapid growth of per capita income in the Northeast than in Brazil
as a whole; with the initiation of new programs this process is expected to
continue.
The Fertilizer Industry and Government Policies in the Fertilizer Sector
29.       Brazil's fertilizer industry consists of about 50 relatively small
private sector and 3 larger government-owned companies with a total produc-
tion capacity in 1976 of 270,000 tons of nitrogen and 690,000 tons of phos-
phate. The industry, especially the private sector, has concentrated on
importing, mixing, blending and distribution rather than on establishing
large-scale efficient production facilities. Most companies compete at the
retail level largely with imported materials while only a few have their own,
generally small, production facilities which have to be protected when world
fertilizer prices are low. The low level of domestic production has been due
to Brazil's lack of easily exploitable fertilizer raw materials, the rapidly
rising capital requirements for the manufacture of chemical fertilizers, and
inadequate government policies during the 1960s for the petrochemical sector
in general and the fertilizer sector in particular.
30.       Large amounts of raw, intermediate and finished fertilizer materials,
therefore, have been imported, and in 1975 total imports amounted to 507,000
tons (two-thirds of total consumption), valued at about US$500 million. To



- 10 -
overcome this dependency on imports, the Government has embarked on a National
Fertilizer Program (NFP), whose objective was to attempt to assure self-
sufficiency in fertilizers by 1980. An interministerial fertilizer commission
is charged with ensuring the rational development of the sector and has
developed a program for large, basic production facilities of which the
Araucaria, Sergipe and the proposed project form a part.
31.       Production costs of local fertilizers have in the past generally
been higher than the cost of imports. To ensure that domestic production
facilities are fully employed, the Government established a quota system that
required retailers to purchase a given proportion of domestic fertilizer. The
Government has changed this ratio periodically depending on consumption fore-
casts and local availability. As the new, large-scale efficient fertilizer
plants enter into production, costs of domestic fertilizers are expected
to move, in the longer run, in line with long-term international prices,
thereby obviating the need for the import quota system.
32.       International fertilizer prices were at a very high level in 1973-
75 causing a decline in the purchasing power of agricultural products in
relation to fertilizers and inducing a leveling off of fertilizer consumption
in Brazil as in many other import dependent countries. Concerned about the
impact of lower fertilizer consumption on its plans for expanding agricultural
production, the Government introduced a price subsidy in April, 1975 which
effectively reduced the cost of fertilizers to the farmers by 15-30%. However,
since international prices have been decreasing and as domestic ex-factory
costs have also declined in response to more efficient local production, the
Government eliminated the subsidy in December 1976. Prospects for continued
significant growth of fertilizer demand are good, since the relationship
between the prices of agricultural products and fertilizer prices is favor-
able, and the Government provided assurances during negotiations that this
will remain so in the future.
Historical Consumption and Supply of Fertilizer
33.       Growth of fertilizer consumption in Brazil has been rapid but also
erratic. Up to 1966 there was little growth, reflecting the Government's
neglect of the agricultural and fertilizer sectors. Stimulating measures
introduced in the mid-1960s brought six years of very rapid growth with
annual increments averaging 35% through 1972. Over the past three years,
fertilizer consumption increased only modestly, primarily as a result of the
sharp rise in international prices and the scarcity of fertilizer in the world
market. A significant recovery in consumption occurred in 1976 due to the
Government's subsidy and low international prices. Phosphate consumption
is high relative to that of other nutrients. This is agronomically justi-
fiable on account of soil characteristics in Brazil. Although detailed
statistics of fertilizer application rates per crop are not yet available, it
is estimated that four crops, namely, sugar, coffee, soybeans and wheat
account for 50% to 60% of total consumption.



- 11 -
34.       Given the erratic nature of past growth of fertilizer consumption
in Brazil and the lack of detailed and consistent fertilizer statistics, demand
projections carry a considerable amount of uncertainty. Of all the factors
influencing fertilizer consumption, the most important is the presence or
absence of strong government policies to promote the increased use of fertil-
izers. In view of (i) the Government's interest in higher agricultural
production for which fertilizers are an essential input; (ii) its willingness
to stabilize the ratio of agricultural product to fertilizer prices; and
finally (iii) its declared goal of assuring a stable supply of fertilizers
by sharply increasing the share of domestic production, the conditions for
significant further growth in fertilizer consumption are favorable. The
limiting factors appear to be bottlenecks in transportation, deficiencies
in the extension services and lack of foreign exchange for the import of
fertilizer and materials.
35.       The upper limit for future demand can be estimated by normative
analysis from necessary nutrient replacement and by projections of arable land
and cropping patterns. Estimates of this nature result in a potential demand
of about 12 million nutrient tons (NPK) in 1985, compared to the consumption
of 2.3 million nutrient tons expected for 1976. The average annual growth
between 1976 and 1985 would, therefore, be around 23%. Actual growth rates
through 1985 are expected to be much lower, however, ranging from 10-12%
annually, considering the constraints mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
While higher levels of agricultural productivity imply an increasing proportion
of nitrogen relative to phosphate application, the evolving cropping pattern
and the opening of new cultivated areas, which require relatively more phos-
phate than nitrogen, are expected to result in only a minor change in the country's
overall NPK ratio. The regional distribution of fertilizer consumption is
assumed to follow the pattern of the last few years with about 10% of total
consumption occurring in the Northeast, 60% in the Center and 30% in the South.
36.       The pattern of future fertilizer supply is expected to differ
dramatically from the present one. Although self-sufficiency by 1980 does
not appear to be achievable, during the early 1980s domestic fertilizer
supply should provide 60-70% of total consumption as compared to about 40%
at present. Self-sufficiency for nitrogen can be reached by 1982 as a
result of the three new ammonia/urea projects, Araucaria, Sergipe and Norte
Fluminense, going into production. A fourth plant proposed to be built in
Rio Grande do Sul in cooperation with the state government is presently
being evaluated by PETROBRAS FERTILIZANTES. Near self-sufficiency for
phosphate fertilizers can be reached by the early 1980s once the VALEFERTIL
project and another planned at Araxa (ARAFERTIL) go into production. Further-
more, an increasing proportion of phosphate fertilizer production will be
based on locally supplied phosphate rock. At present local phosphate rock
output accounts for only 10% of phosphate consumption. However, three large
phosphate rock mining and beneficiation projects will come into operation during
the next five years. The ARAFERTIL project at Araxa in 1977, the VALEP project
at Tapira in 1978 and a project at Patos de Minas in 1981. These projects are
expected to increase the share of locally supplied phosphate rock to almost 60%
of phosphate consumption by 1982.



- 12 -
37.       To keep abreast of the investment plans in the fertilizer sector and
to ensure that new plants are built in accordance with realistic demand pro-
jections, the Government has agreed to exchange views with the Bank from time
to time regarding the expansion and development of the fertilizer sector, in-
cluding investment plans and import and pricing policies (see Section 3.04
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
38.       Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution.   About 90% of total fertilizer
distribution is effected through blenders which are either owned by fertilizer
manufacturers (25% of total), independent companies (65%) or cooperatives
(10%). The Government intends private firms to continue handling the market-
ing and distribution functions in the sector. However, the rapid expansion of
consumption expected in the next few years and the changing pattern of supply
might create a severe strain on the existing fertilizer marketing and distri-
bution network. To analyze potential bottlenecks, and their effect on future
fertilizer consumption, the Government undertook, in connection with the
Bank's loan for the Araucaria project, a marketing and distribution study
under satisfactory terms of reference. The study began in October 1976,
and its results are expected to be available by late 1977.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Project Scope.   The project consists of the production of phosphate
fertilizers with a capacity of 1,000 tons per day of monoammonium phosphate
(MAP) and 1,100 tons per day of triple superphosphate (TSP) for respective
annual capacities of 330,000 and 340,000 tons. The project will also produce
the intermediate sulphuric acid and the phosphoric acid needed for the produc-
tion of these phosphate fertilizers and includes facilities for storage and
transportation. The plant will be built at a new site, 37 km south of Uberaba,
in the State of Minas Gerais. The project will use as principal raw material
local low-grade phosphate rock to be supplied by Mineracao Vale do Paranaiba
S.A. (VALEP), which is presently installing phosphate mining and beneficiation
facilities at Tapira, about 118 km east of the project site. Because the
project would be the first to use the Tapira phosphate rock, there are inherent
uncertainties as to the achievable efficiency of the phosphoric acid production
process. The phosphoric acid units have therefore been designed with addi-
tional safety factors in the reactors and filters. Should the actual produc-
tion experience approximate the test results, the project may have about 10%
more capacity than indicated above. The project is expected to start commer-
cial production in mid-1979, and the output will be marketed in the Center
region of Brazil through private fertilizer blending and mixing companies.
40.       Project Management and Implementation.    VALEFERTIL, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) will own and operate the
project. The company was registered in March 1976 with an initial share
capital of Cr$20 million which will be fully subscribed by CVRD and its sub-
sidiaries. CVRD had originally intended to attract other investors, including
foreign firms, to participate in the project. However, it had to abandon this



- 13 -
idea because private fertilizer enterprises in Brazil either have limited
financial resources or are themselves already involved in other projects;
foreign investors have also not shown interest in the project, primarily
because all output would be marketed domestically.
41.       The project will be implemented by VALEFERTIL through its own
project team. Since neither VALEFERTIL nor CVRD have previous experience
in constructing and operating a large fertilizer plant, this project team will
be strengthened with technical advisers. The project team will supervise and
coordinate the work of the consulting engineering firms. The general engineer-
ing contractor is a consortium of FLUOR Latin America Inc., a subsidiary of the
FLUOR Corporation (USA), and NATRON Consultoria e Projetos of Brazil. The consor-
tium will provide overall project management, detailed engineering of process
plants and engineering of offsite facilities, procurement services, management
of subcontracted construction and erection services, and supervision of com-
missioning. The process licensors will assist NATRON in detailed engineering
design and train VALEFERTIL personnel in the operation and maintenance of the
processing plants. FLUOR will head the consortium and will also undertake
foreign procurement; NATRON will undertake local procurement and supervision
of construction. FLUOR is an experienced international engineering company
and the implementation arrangement is satisfactory. Basic engineering is
almost complete, procurement has begun, and the start of commercial operation
is planned for July 1979.
42.       VALEFERTIL.has given assurances that it will follow prudent financ-
ial practices. After the start of commercial operation it will: (a) maintain
a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 or better; (b) maintain a current ratio of
1.2:1.0 or better; (c) not incur any long-term debt if its future debt service
coverage ratio will fall below 1.5; (d) limit its dividend or other cash
distributions (except for dividends on preferred shares), make any equity
investment in, or loan to, any subsidiary or prepay any debt, if such action
would cause its current ratio to fall below 1.5; and (e) consult with the Bank
before undertaking any other major financial commitments (see Section 5.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The company's accounts would continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
43.       The parent company, CVRD, is wholly owned by the Government, and
is Brazil's largest producer and exporter of iron ore. It also has sub-
sidiaries and associated companies involved in forest industries.    During
1975, CVRD produced about 50 million tons of iron ore and exported about 47
million tons at an FOB value of US$611 million, accounting for 60% of total
Brazilian iron ore exports. CVRD's total assets amounted to US$1.6 billion
equivalent at the end of 1975. Its gross receipts increased dramatically
from US$524 million in 1974 to US$749 million in 1975 and are expected to
reach about US$907 million in 1976. Almost 85% of gross receipts are accounted
for by iron ore exports and roughly 70% of the increase in receipts from 1974
to 1976 was due to higher prices, with the balance accounted for by physical
increases in sales.   During the past three years, net income averaged 22% to
25% of equity. At the end of 1976 the debt/equity ratio (37:63) and the



- 14 -
current ratio (2.8) were satisfactory. From 1973 to 1975, CVRD's capital in-
vestments averaged US$255 million annually and are expected to increase sub-
stantially during the next five years. CVRD's investment program for 1976-80
is forecast to require financing commitments of about US$3.8 billion equiva-
lent in current terms, including close to US$3 billion for the Carajas iron
ore project in the Northeast; about US$250 million for an aluminum project;
and US$118 million for the equity investment in the VALEFERTIL project. Bank
financing has been requested for all three projects. Loans are expected to
finance 35% of the investment program, new capital subscriptions and Govern-
ment funds 15%, and internally generated resources 50%.
44.       Production and Market.   To achieve 99.5% efficiency in the conversion
of sulphur to sulphuric acid and to minimize pollution, the project will use
the Bayer-Lurgi double catalyst process which involves two-stage catalytic
conversion and a two-stage absorption operation. Basic engineering for the
sulphuric acid units will be provided by Lurgi (Germany). The phosphoric acid
units will be based on the Rhone-Poulenc (France) process which provided the
most favorable test results using samples of beneficiated Tapira phosphate rock.
Basic engineering for the phosphoric acid units will be provided by Krebs
(France) and for the MAP and the TSP units by Gulf Design, a division of Badger
(USA), based on the Swift-Gulf Design process for MAP and the Gulf Design
process for TSP. All the processes are commercially proven, the engineering
firms experienced, and there are no unusual risks involved.
45.       Beneficiated phosphate rock (35% P205) for the project will be
supplied by VALEP. It will be transported from Tapira to Uberaba as a slurry
through a nine-inch underground steel pipeline designed and being constructed
for VALEP by Bechtel (USA), an experienced engineering firm. Phosphate rock
dewatering, drying and storage facilities at the pipeline terminal (adjacent
to the VALEFERTIL plant site) are included in the VALEP project scope. A
review of the topographical survey for the pipeline and its system design
confirms the technical soundness of the scheme and the pipeline is free from
any serious risks. The VALEP project is expected to be completed by August
1978, some 11 months earlier than the VALEFERTIL project, and the initial
production will be sold to manufacturers in the Sao Paulo area.
46.       The VALEP project scope had been finalized before the Bank was re-
quested to assist the VALEFERTIL project. The VALEP beneficiation plant ca-
pacity is just adequate to meet the design requirement of the VALEFERTIL
project without any margins to accommodate the potential 10% extra capacity
of VALEFERTIL's plant. The beneficiation plant's capacity can, however, be
increased by 15% with an additional investment of about US$5 million. How-
ever, this would be best carried out after both VALEP and VALEFERTIL have
gained adequate operating experience. CVRD and VALEFERTIL have therefore
agreed that after VALEFERTIL has operated for about two years, it will under-
take a joint study with VALEP to analyze the feasibility of increasing and/or
balancing the outputs of the two projects (see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 4 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement). The results of
the study would be made available to the Bank. If appropriate VALEFERTIL and



- 15 -
VALEP would make additional investments to balance and optimize the production
of the two projects (see Sections 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.02 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
47.       VALEFERTIL has also agreed to enter into a long-term phosphate rock
supply contract with VALEP to cover the design requirements of the project and
to obligate VALEP to jointly undertake the study mentioned above. Furthermore,
if VALEP's production should prove to be inadequate, the project would utilize
phosphate rock from other sources, either domestic or foreign, to operate at
full capacity (see Sections 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.01 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
48.       VALEFERTIL has already acquired the 48 ha of land needed for the
project, which is located between the proposed realignment of the FEPASA
railroad connecting Uberaba with Ribeirao Preto, currently in the early
stages of construction, and the Goiania-Sao Paulo highway, ensuring adequate
transport means. Soil investigations and land grading have been completed.
The Uberaba-Ribeirao Preto line is part of the Third Railway Project which
is being partially financed by a Bank loan and it is expected to be completed
in 1978. VALEFERTIL would enter into a contract with FEPASA to construct
a rail spur to the VALEFERTIL site and to provide railroad cars for the
transport of sulphur, fuel oil and finished products (see Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The external power requirements of the project would
be provided through a nearby existing 30,000 KVA sub-station which is con-
nected to the hydroelectric power plants along the Rio Grande River. A 2 km
water pipeline from the Rio Grande River to the factory, with associated water
treatment facilities, is included in the project scope.
49.       VALEFERTIL's production would be marketed in the Center region.
Although the South is the most intensive user of fertilizers, the Center
region, with its larger cultivated area, accounted for about 60% of total
NPK consumption and 54% of P205 consumption in Brazil during 1972-76. This
pattern is expected to continue through 1985. The forecast of the phosphate
fertilizer demand and supply situation in the Center region indicates a defi-
cit situation up to 1978, and a shift to a modest surplus during 1980-83.
By 1984 the surplus will probably have disappeared and a deficit situation
could again occur by 1985. The P205 demand forecast for the Center region
assumes an annual growth rate of 10% during 1977-80 and 9% during 1981-85,
the same rates used for the national P205 demand forecast. Should demand
grow even only slightly higher than these rates, the surplus projected for
1980-83 would not materialize.
50.       Fertilizer consumption at present is centered around Ribeirao Preto,
some 180 km south of Uberaba in the Center region. During the next five
to ten years, this area of consumption is expected to move closer to
Uberaba, thus further improving the location advantage of Uberaba as the
project site. But because of the dominance of imported fertilizer raw



- 16 -
materials and products at present, most of the existing manufacturing and
blending facilities are located close to the coast in Sao Paulo and Santos.
Since VALEFERTIL intends to manufacture only bulk products for sale to
blenders and mixers, additional blending and mixing facilities will have to
be located inland, close to Uberaba and the project's target market, to take
full advantage of transportation savings. VALEFERTIL has already completed,
through CVRD's engineering and planning division and the Brazilian consulting
firm Economia Estatistica e Planejamento, Ltda., a study of the spatial dis-
tribution of fertilizer consumption in the Center region. The study will
provide a basis for identifying potential locations for new blending and
mixing facilities and the product transport pattern for VALEFERTIL. Several
private blending and mixing firms have already expressed interest, and
VALEFERTIL intends to assist them in developing and implementing a program
for blending and mixing as well as for storage and distribution projects.
51.       The development of VALEFERTIL's marketing plans and related blending
and mixing facilities is critical to ensuring the success of the project. So
far, VALEFERTIL does not have anyone responsible for developing such plans.
VALEFERTIL has, however, agreed that a competent person would be appointed by
September 1, 1977, in time to enable him to participate in the development of
the organizational plans for the company and to formulate by December 1977
specific marketing plans for the project, acceptable to the Bank (see
Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).      -
52.       VALEFERTIL's production is expected to account for 25-30% of the
P205 production in the Center region during 1980-85, making the company an
important factor in the industry. The marketing risks for the project, how-
ever, are minimal, since there is sufficient time to develop the necessary
marketing and distribution network.   The Government's national fertilizer
marketing and distribution study, expected to be completed by late 1977, should
also provide additional information on the required investments in marketing
and distribution facilities in the region.
53.       Project Cost and Financing.   The projects' financing requirement is
estimated at US$294 million, equivalent, of which US$104 million is in foreign
exchange. The capital cost estimate is based on mid-1976 prices and reflects
the high rate of equipment price increases experienced in 1975-76.



- 17 -
VALEFERTIL - Summary of Capital Cost Estimates
--------US$ Million------------
Foreign      Local
Exchange    Currency Total    %
Equipment and Materials (FOB)           49.6        32.2    81.8   41
Freight, Insurance and Taxes             3.8        12.0    15.8     8
Civil Works                              3.2        18.2    21.4    11
Erection                                  -         28.9    28.9    15
Land and Site Improvement                 -          7.5      7.5    4
Engineering Services                    10.2        16.2    26.4    13
Preoperating Expenses                     -         11.5    11.5     6
Testing and Commissioning                2.5         1.7     4.2     2
Base Cost Estimate                      69.3       128.2   197.5   100
Physical Contingencies /a                6.4        12.0    18.4
Price Escalation /b                      9.6        18.9    28.5
Installed Cost                          85.3       159.1   244.4
Working Capital                          6.6        26.4    33.0
Interest During Construction            11.7         4.9    16.6
Total Financing Required               103.6       190.4   294.0
/a   5% of the base cost estimate for engineering, land and site improvement;
10% of the base cost estimate for all other items.
/b   19.7% of the base cost estimate and physical contingencies for civil
works; 14.5% of the base cost estimate and physical contingencies for
all other costs except engineering which has no price escalation provi-
sion.
54.       The equipment costs have been derived from estimates prepared by
VALEFERTIL and FLUOR based on experience with a similar project in another
country scheduled for completion in 1977. The equipment base cost estimate
also reflects the higher cost of items to be reserved for procurement in
Brazil (see para. 58). The project already qualifies for an 80% exemption
from import duties on equipment but VALEFERTIL has requested a 100% exemption.
In the meantime, the cost estimate includes a provision for duties on 20% of
the CIF value of the imported equipment. The civil works cost has been esti-
mated by FLUOR and NATRON on the basis of preliminary designs and experience
with similar civil construction in Brazil. The cost of process licenses,
engineering and other services is based on contracts already signed in early
1976 with the engineering firms and the process licensors. The estimated cost
of foreign engineering and technical services range from US$4,500 to US$7,000
per man-month exclusive of travel and subsistence allowances. The cost of



- 18 -
local engineering and other consultancy services range from US$2,000 to
US$5,000 per man-months.
55.       Price escalation for equipment is calculated on the basis of pro-
jected price increases of 9% for 1976 and 8% per year for 1977-79 in major
equipment supplying countries. No price escalation is provided for engineer-
ing costs as the values given represent the amounts estimated in the various
contracts in current terms. On civil works, however, escalation rates of
13% for 1976 and 12% per year for 1977-79 have been assumed based on experi-
ence in the recent past that the cost of civil works in Brazil will rise
faster than the general price level. The initial working capital requirement
is estimated at US$33 million. Interest during construction is calculated on
the basis of total debt financing of US$176 million, which corresponds to a
debt/equity ratio of about 60:40.
56.       The financing plan for the project is as follows:
VALEFERTIL - Proposed Financing Plan
In Millions of Cr$   In Millions of US$    %
Equity (CVRD)                              1,345             118.0            40
Loans
Local Loans                                797              70.0            24
Foreign Loans /1                           273              24.0             8
World Bank                                 935              82.0            28
Total Loans                          2,005              176.0            60
Total Financing                            3,350             294.0           100
/1   Suppliers' credits and commercial banks.
CVRD will provide the equity funds equivalent to US$118 million, or 40% of
the required financing. An analysis of CVRD's cash flow projections indicates
that it should be able to provide these funds as well as additional funds to
cover cost overruns were this to become necessary. About 24% of the financing
requirements will come from a Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
loan of about US$48 million equivalent, which was signed on December 27, 1976
and a medium-term loan from Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial -
FINAME of about US$22 million. The BNDE loan has a maturity of 15 years
including 3-1/2 years of grace. The FINAME loan will be for at least 8 years
including about 2-1/2 years of grace. Foreign suppliers' credits of about
US$4.0 million and a loan of US$20 million from foreign commercial banks
(both arranged with the assistance of CVRD) would provide about 8% of the
financing requirements. The commercial bank loan would be made with co-
financing links to the World Bank loan if VALEFERTIL were thereby able to
obtain more favorable terms.



- 19 -
57.       A Bank loan of US$82 million to VALEFERTIL is proposed for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum; VALEFERTIL would
pay a fee of 1.8% per annum to the Government to bring its total interest cost
to 10% per year. The Bank loan would finance 28% of total financing required
and less than 80% of the foreign exchange requirement. The balance of the
foreign exchange required would be covered by loans from foreign suppliers and
banks. VALEFERTIL would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Should a financing gap and/or cost overrun occur, CVRD would ensure that both
the VALEFERTIL and the VALEP projects would be provided the necessary funds in
the form of equity and/or loans to complete the respective projects, in such a
way that the debt/equity ratio would not exceed 60:40 at project completion
and the current ratio would be at least 1.2:1.0 (see Section 3 of the draft
Shareholder's Agreement). Finally, the Government would ensure that all funds
would be provided as required to complete the VALEFERTIL and the VALEP projects
without delay and that all approvals for the implementation of these projects,
including import licenses would be provided in time (see Sections 2.02 and
3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
58.       Procurement and Disbursement.   In accordance with the Government's
policy to support and develop the Brazilian capital goods industry, 40% of the
value ofl equipment and materials required by the project would be bid only
among Brazilian suppliers (and paid for from resources other than the Bank
loan). The cost of equipment thus reserved for local procurement is expected
to be on average 12% more than if it were to be procured through international
competition, but this increases the total project cost by less than 2%. Pro-
prietary equipment not available in Brazil, representing close to 5% of the
total equipment value, would be purchased, after negotiation, from suppliers
on a list approved by the Bank, and would be financed with suppliers' credits.
The balance of the equipment (55%) will be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines and would be financed from the proposed Bank loan. Brazilian
suppliers will be allowed a preference margin of 15% (or the import duty rate
if lower). On this basis, it is estimated that about 25% (US$15 million) of
the FOB value of the equipment to be financed by the Bank might be won by
Brazilian suppliers.
59.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange expenditures for foreign engineering, process licenses and technical
advisory services (US$10.7 million); (b) 100% of the foreign expenditures
(if imported) or the ex-factory (if locally supplied) cost of equipment pro-
cured through-international competitive bidding (US$54.0 million); (c) the
foreign expenditures for imported items and packages costing less than
US$100,000 each to be purchased through international shopping as approved
by the Bank (US$8.3 million); and (d) interest during construction on the Bank
loan (US$9.0 million). The foreign engineering services proposed for Bank
financing have already been contracted for, and the loan would finance retro-
actively up to US$6.2 million, equivalent, expended by VALEFERTIL for such
services after August 15, 1976. About US$5 million worth of equipment con-
tracts will have been made before the expected signing date of the proposed
Bank loan; however, no retroactive financing for equipment will be needed as



- 20 -
VALEFERTIL has already made satisfactory arrangements to make the initial
payments.
60.       Financial and Economic Benefits and Risks. Production is assumed to
start at 50% capacity utilization and to level out at 90% in the second full
year of operation (1981). The MAP and the TSP ex-factory prices are assumed
at US$280/ton and US$225/ton, respectively, i.e., at levels competitive with
imports on a net-of-tax basis delivered to the market area.
61.       The financial rate of return is satisfactory, 14% before and 11% after
income taxes. Sensitivity tests show that under moderately adverse conditions,
such as a 10% increase in capital costs, or a 5% reduction in ex-factory prices,
or a 10% increase in operating costs, the after tax rate of return will still
be at least 8%. Should VALEFERTIL's production be 100% of capacity rather than
the 90% assumed here as a result of the potentially higher capacity in the
phosphoric acid plant, the financial rate of return would improve to 12.8%
after taxes.
62.       The project's economic rate of return is calculated at 22%. A shadow
exchange rate, 25% higher than the official rate, is used to reflect foreign
trade distortions caused by import tariffs, export taxes and subsidies, as well
as other forms of import restrictions and export incentives. The project's
import substitution role, its economies of scale, as well as its favorable
location with respect to both the source of phosphate rock and the market,
account for the satisfactory rate of return. Sensitivity tests indicate that
the return would still be about 15% even if operating costs increased by 10%
and product prices declined by 6%, or if capital costs increased by 10% and
product prices declined by 10%. The project's net annual foreign exchange
savings at 90% capacity utilization are estimated at US$65 million, before
provision for principal and interest payments on foreign loans. The economic
return of the combined VALEP-VALEFERTIL project would be 16.6% at 90% capacity
utilization, and would increase to 18.4% at 100% utilization.   The project
would face some risks but these are expected to be reduced to acceptable
levels. For example, VALEFERTIL's lack of technical experience would be over-
come through foreign technical advisory services. Similarly, the phosphoric
acid plant has been designed with additional safety factors because the Tapira
phosphate rock would be used in a fertilizer plant for the first time. Also
VALEFERTIL would consult with the Bank before undertaking any major financial
commitments or expansion programs to ensure proper economic evaluation of
investment opportunities. VALEFERTIL would also develop, in consultation with
the Bank, a marketing plan for the project, to ensure the satisfactory
development of the marketing and distribution system in the project's market
area.
63.       Conclusions. VALEFERTIL's team and the consortium for general
engineering technical assistance have the technical and managerial capability
to satisfactorily implement the project. The project will contribute signifi-
cantly toward increasing Brazil's self-sufficiency in fertilizers and help
reduce the country's reliance on cyclical and erratic international supply
sources and prices. Brazil should then be able to pursue its agricultural



- 21 -
production growth objectives with more certainty about the supply of fertil-
izers as well as more stable domestic fertilizer prices. Agriculture, both
for domestic consumption and exports, will continue to be a major component
of Brazil's economy and an important source of growth in economic output.
PART V- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and VALEFERTIL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Federative Republic of Brazil,
the draft Shareholders' Agreement between the Bank and CVRD, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 13, 1977






Page 1
BRAZIL                   SOCIAL INOICATOIRS DATA SMEEt
LAND AREA (TH4OU ANP..........................
...........*                                     BRAZIL                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIFS (1Q70)
T3TAL      8512.0                                           MOST RECENT
la01C.           ..                         960        1970    ESTIMATE            NEIico          URUGUAY          JAPAN Pe'
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                         300          5.0         1010.8.                             6.         250.
DOPULATIO'i ANOD VITAL STATISTICS
'OWULATION (NtD-YR. NILLION)                bq.S         92.0        107.0                 50.1.         2.7        104.3
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUUARE MN,                            8.0         ((.0         13.0                 26.0         15.0        262.0
PU SQUA     MI. AOC. AND                  51.0         66.0o*                            52.0         18.o       1575.0
VITAL STATISTtCS
CRUDE BIRTN RATE PER THOUSAND             IsO.S8       38.4,        fl.1                 1.3.8        22.)         17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSA.40            11.7          9.9          8.8                 10.2          9.2          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/TWOU3)           180 .0       110.0                              68.5                     !-,.
LIFE EXPECTANty Al BIRTH CTRS)            56.0         59.7         6f.4                 61.0         695.3        71.1
GROSS REPRODUJCTION RATE                   2.6          2.6          2.5                  3.1          1.4          1.0
POPULATIDN GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                      3.0          2.9          ?.9                  3.4.         0.7          1.0
URBAN                                      5.5          5.0          1..3                 4..8         i.4         1'. o
.IRSA.  POPULATION (I OP TOTAL)             06.0         56.0         59.1                 58.7         78.1         84.4.
Ace STQUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            43.0         02.0         1.1.7                1.6.2        28.3        2A.0
Is TO 64 YEARS                            54,0         55.0         55.1'                50.)         63.5        65,9
68 YEARS AND OJVER                         3.0          3.0          3.2                  3.7          8.2         7,1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.9          .8.          0.5                  1.0          0.6          0.5
ECONORMIe 8EPENOENCY RATIO                   (.6          I.,           .                   2.0          1.0          0.6
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPYOPS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                ..       250.0                               55.5
USERS (I OiF HARRIE3 WiOMEN)                ..           .6
TOTAL LA80R FORCE (TWDUSANO)            22700.0      24600.0            .              1 3 0 000      1020.0      3 300a. 0
LABOR fORCE I4 AGRICULTURE (%I              52.0         40.0           ..40.0                          17.0         14.0
UNEMPLOYED (I OP LABOR FORCE)                  ...                       ..                               .0 La       1.2
INCOME DST3RIBUTIO.4
K Of PRIVATE INCO'ME REC'D By-
IMM       5% OF  MzMI                     28.0 8a      35.   a        ..37.8                          110 4.2
limBT20 O O7USoLD                         51. .0        62.   as                                                   3    
62;1  ~    ..43.2                           050.
ta~~~~r 1.c~~~~~ ow ~~~12.0 '.               10.1.01.                                                   2.
013TRISUTIO% OF LANO OWNERSHIP
t 3wE    BY TOP 1OS OP OWNERS                  ..        &.o                               37.1           .
O ~.NE0 BY SMALLEST (05 nWNERS                ..1.5                    ..0.3                             .
HEALTH A4D .iUTRITIOP4
'OULA?ION P~~~~4 PNYSICIAW ~~~2(70.0        (450o.0      1660.o0/a            1410.0         880.0       080 .0
POPULAT1ON PER 'dURSIMO PERSCON                        3300.0 I    292Q.0i.              1570.0       334.0.0      2d.0
3OPULATTON PER HOSPITAL BED                275.0        260.0           ..930 .0                       150.0         00.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP 
CALORIES (I OP REgUIREmENTS)             102.0        (09.0        11. /t11.0                       107.0         106.0
PROTEIN(GAM       PER DAY)                61.0         64.0         As* 04               65.            .0         76.0
.09 w.NICH ANINAL AND PULSE             30.0        39.0            .                 280.LS      64.0         45.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1.                     .            .           .                   9.8          1.3          1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           1 0 0.0       870          7.0,                 06.0        110.0        101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          is.0 _       28.011       71..0                23.0         59.0         91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVtDEC
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  13.0         13.0         13.0                 12.0         12.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(1 OF SECONDARY)                          (9.0         (7*0         180.o                28.0         21.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (0)                     61.0         60.0            ..76.0                         91.0         99.0
MOUSING
'RBPONS PIP ROaN (AVERAGE)                     ..           .0         (.1/k                 2.2           ..1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLI4GS WITMOUT
DIPEO WATEQ (I)                              ..        73.0 La      67,0 & aL            61.0 /b        .           5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 0f ALL DwELLINGS)                        ..         0.0          S3.0 A.              59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
T3 !LECTRICITY    M                         ..           .0         (1.0/4~              20.0
RAOIO RECEIVERS (PER TwOU POPR)             66.0         60.0         6.0.                276.0        3A6.0        851.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER TOOU     0P1              7.         25.0          I1.,L                24.0         .0810
ELECTRCITYy (KeN/YR PER CAP)                325.0       L.91.0       68L.o                 567.0       7 62 .0     3391 .0
4EWSPRINT (KG/Y* PER CAR)                     3.3         2.7          a.6                  3.1          7.0         10.9
.~~~~~~~~~....................................



ANNEX 
Page2
Uhl... htewic.ted. data fat 1960 ref at -oay Y.ar btwe.n 1959 end 1961, for 1970 betwee         1968 and 1970 and for Most Rscrot Estimate betwaen
19 73 and 19 75.
0Japan ha. ben ..lecttd a. an objective country *ince th, Bra..ilian Go-erretet ha. eho,   particular Inteteat to Japan's d-velop.ental experience;
.ceo the two goveronnt. hav- conducted joint etudie. to identify possible future    onoi problen    of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIL      1960    L.± toononicaily active population;    lb  7-10 and 11-17 year. of age -epectiveIy.
1970    L± Economically active population;     Lb  Hospital personnol,    LI..mid. only;     L/d  12-18 Years of age.
MOST RECrNT ESTIYAMh    /.  1972;    lb  1971;    LI. 1969-71 Vavrage;    LId  7.14 and 15-17 yeere of age r.epectively;    /.  Inside only.
MRXICO      1970    L   1964.6;     L.b Inside only.
URUGUIAY    1970    L   Montevideo only;    Lb  1967.
R10, Decmber 27, 1976
DEFIThTlI9tS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Arse (thou ke2)                                                          Population par nursing pereo  - Population divided by number of practicing
Total   Total surfoce area conpriaiog land area and inland vacter.              nae and femlaeT graduate  rstee., "trained" or "certified" nurece, and
Agric.   Moat recent eatimate of agricultural area ue.d tenporarily or          an,otlery personnel with training or exporience.
permanently for crops, p-tcnree, market & kitchen gardens or to lie         Population nor hoepital bad - Population divided by o,mber of boepita1 bed.
fellow,                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~available in puolic and private general and apecialized hospital end
rehabilitation centers; exIudee nursing homes and "tatblis'    ta for
ClNP per capta  USS  - GNPp per capita eatimtes at Cornrsct aor,t Prices,       custodial end preventive care.                  -Cptdfos-g
calculated by nene covreion nthod as World Bank Atlas (1973.75              Per capita supply of calories ('1 of requirneente)  Cnue      rneeg
basis), 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                             equivalent of net food supplies available in conr     orcpt     ptdy
available supplies comp~rise do.sstic production, imports .9eae eports,
Popuolat1ion 8hid vital Statistics                                             and changea in etock; eat supplies exclude animal feed, seeda. quenti-
Povoio  ndyr.nli   ) - As of July first:  if not available,             tiee ueed in fond procesaing and losaes in dietribution; requiremnto
avrage of two end-year scOce       1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                 were estimated by FAO based en Physiological needa for ocronAl activity
:nd Maitch conaidring envirnanenahtl tenpecature. body -eights* age and
-a diatributiona of population, end aIloacg lOt for nears at h-.ihold
'poul:rtio densi~ty - per ""'are km  Mid-year population per square kilo-       levl.
ott(0hetares) of ttal area                                           Per aepica supply of protein farome per day) - Protein content of per
Poplaton ensty- per oouare km of agric. land - Computed as above for        capita net supply of food par day; net aupply of food is defined as
aogricultura  lend onl.                                                        above; requirenamnta for all coentries established by USDA Economic
R .a.arch Sarvice  provide for a nisSa  allomanc  of 60 aren  of total
Vital statistics                                                                 V-ocai  pew d.y, and 20 ar    0 anixaLl and Pulae prot.in, of h.ish
9CZrude birt raeArthuad         - 1Bna live births pot thousand of old-          10 garen ahould be sanmal protain, thease atedard. are lower than those   I
rysor population; ten-year erithoostic averagee ending in 1960 &ad 1970a        of 75 grens of total protein And 23 grms of a-'Ia protein aa en
Wan five-year average eadin  in 1975 for most recaot estimate.                 Average for the wo*rld, prop-aed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Crud deah roa sa thoaaed- AnnalI deaths pot thouaand of nid-Year       Zet capita protein supply fro. animal end pulse - Protein supply of food
Populatio; tny.yer aritl,ti    a        Coaeeeding in 196,0 and 1970, end     derived from, niale end pulees in gramepot day.
fie-yea   aeag    assding in 1975 for meet reaent aetimata.                  Death ratre.Ctthou) age, 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
i.foht nraity rte C/thou) - Annua deaths of infants -endr one year of,           1-_c yer, tchildren in this age group; suggeated as an Indicator of
age pot thousand live births.                                                  nalntrition.
jLife spectanc    at bit  re   -Avag     nober of years of life remaining
at birth, usually five-yeAr averages -adiag in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for       Education,
developing countri.a.                                                        Adiusted anrollant ratio - prlooeo sobool - Enrolment of all ages a.
Grose repro,duction rate - Average number of live daughtaer a coan will          percetage of primary school-gag population. includes children agd
bea:r in her nornal reproductive period if she exporienuces present age-       6-li year. bu tadjusted for different lengtha of primary education;
specific fertility trsce; usually fLva-year awerageaending In 1960,            for countries with universal aducatle, enroIlmaut may exced lOOt
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                       aince som pupils are   ahl, or above the official echool age.
Poolartio o,routh rats().   total - Conpouad ann-I growth rates of nid-         Wadsted enrollment ratio - secoder, school - Computed As above;
yapou atinfor MO5-60, 1960-70 and 1970.75.                              eacondany education requires at least four, years of approvd pri-ay
Poplation growth re.tetl Ci  rban - Computed like growth rate of tatal           instruction; provides general, vocationael or teacher training
pouoln  ifer.ot definitios  of urban areas nay affect cenpare.          oatructions for pupila of 12 to 17 yeara of age; correspondence
bility of data  nongconris                                                     courses are generally exc:luded.
Ura "oplto (7 of tta) - Ratio of urban to total population;               yer   fehoia rvdd(ie en             'sconle      l)- Total year     of
different de    init s of urban armaa nay affect comparability of data          mtoln;a        aodr      s.,vctoa          ntuto       ay he par-
among countries.                                                               tially or cooplataly exocluded.
Aoe structure (percent)                                                                        i hlrn(-4yas.w~n-se(56  er)  oainla rolt il of secodary) - Vocational institutions
and retired (65 year. And over) as porcentga*e Of id.year population,          inld     ecni, Indus trial or other program which operate
AR dependency ratio - Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to            indepandently or as depersunta of secondary institutions.
th.e Ofae    15 thogh 64,                                                   Adult literacy rate CZ) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
tEonnict dependency ratio - Ratio of Population under 15 And 65 and over          percentage of total adult populati on ged 15 year. end over.
tothe laor forcs in age group of 15-6Is years.
fenily planing - eceptors (casulotive thou) - Ccumulative number of   Hosn
acceto. of birth-:acnrol'5 d .evi  under auspices of national fenily       Persons per too. (average) - Average vaber of persona per too. in
planing Program since inception.                                               occupied conventional dwellings In urban areas; dwellings exclude
'aIV P plnin- uers (7.of aried unpen) - Pe-centagea of married                  non-preemanent sbructuree e.6 uoaecupi4d parts.
w9omen of child-bearig   ge154 years) who use birth-control devices           Occuied dw.ell.ings without piped wcatr C7.5 - Occupied conventional
to aLl narried wnen, in msa    aSe group,                                      dullg, inrba      and rural area, without inside or outside piped
eater facilities As percentage of all occupied dseellinge.
tEployment                                                                     Acceee toaelectricity Cl of all dwellings ) - Conventisnal dwellings
Tota.l,lborr force (thousand) - Economically active Persons, including           with electricity in living quarters aa Percent of total dwellings in
arnd fore    and "e"Ployed but s..cluding housewives, iue,      ectc.;         urban end rural 4r.aa.
definitions in various countries are net conpareble.                         gUral dw~edllings cnetd to electricity l     - Compsuted as above for
Labor forc ina     ,cultur(,) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,              rrldeigeoly.
frtr,hunting And fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unm:p:lyed (7, of la.bor iforce) - Unemployed are usually defined ae persons   dnsomotien,
wh Ir bead wIllin     to take a job, out of a job on   agiven day.      Wai. receivers (Par thou Ppo) - All typsa of receivers for radio brood-
remaaned out of a job, ond aseking wotk for a specified minina  period         casts to general public per thousand of population; exclde.
not   ' exedn  newe;my not he cenpareble beteese      countries due to          unlicensed receivrer in countries end In year  whe  ragiatration of
different definitions~ of unenployed and saur. of data, e.g., emplay-           radio sets wes in effect; data for recant yrear  may not be comparable
ocat office sta   "iatic, snPie asurveye, compulsory unenploYnent insurance.    sina nwat Countries aboliahed licenaing.
Pesntcr.fpr tho poo     - Passenger cars c -,.ise motor car.
dnoniAatribucton - Parc...tage of private incete (both in caeh And kind)      osa:ting la.a the  egtpersona; exludama nl*acaes, heas"" end
received by richeat 5%, richest 201, Poorest 201, And poorest 401 of           military vehicles.'
bousehoids.                                              glectr~~~~~~~~  ~~~ici,ryC /yr ser --P) - Annual consuaption of industrial, com-
nacel  ui  end private electricity in kilowatt haure per capita.
DfistrIbut1ion of.land owners,hi,p - PercenagesA of lend owned by wealthi.st      generally based on production data, without aIloaence for lIwse  in
101 and poorest 10% of land owners.                         grid. but allowing for iparta end e"ports of electricity.
Ruee:ptr11dkt bf,toarce)    Pat capita anua rooarption In kilge
ealth and lfctlritio                                                             etmedfodnatic production plus net importa of neweprint.
I.t,:.   r        P- Ppulation divided by nsumber of practicing
PhysicixansqualTi~T       a nadical school at university level.



@ | @- > _ e < - -   ^ _-f -  , w Na -" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l-c-  .- -I 
-'  O  _  O  O 0 0   C   -  - O.  - _  _  zb- ~ Z   _ _ b D ijO_ O Og  
f     <  * o g >¢> Q ffi ,  3 i >Z-zb
- ,OOs~OO- a~ 0  ..-0 0 "-O  --Cf  0-C ^
o- -0  C-.-   >a -  "a- s  *- 'a0 -   <-
o-> _S X 0-r  o -  C  a'~  . -  . - ------ - -C 
_ _  - '; _ * -~ 0  -  0; _  _  - -  N  a_ _-
2~~~~ ~ ~ ~ I, 44ZA      °S<-n  _ -0^   s-C
I *1  - °--e ° - *O
3 ~ ~   ~   ~    ~    W       1
3 :a 0o, o s t .3; | W ao aj R; |~~ '.°C  6  W  9  - * 1WC,-_ -  ; C_



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 r 
I tf  te S<  0 
;@vw  o  u jlts,'2F,-z,2,:L3j]sQ222Ht!tSa A



ThTE STATUS OF BANK Q1t!JP OPER&TIONS IN BRAZIL     .AJ    II
A.   SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(AS 0? FMUARY 28, 1977)
Amount leos      Undia-
Loan #    Year              Borrower                             Cancellations     bursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-One Loans Fully Disbursed                                     890.9
677     1970     Furnas - Centrais Eletricas    Power               80.0            4.2
IWriibondo
728     1971     Centrais Bletricas do Sul do   Power               70.0            6.7
Brasil - Salto Oaorio
755     1971     Brazil                         Education            8.4            2.9
756     1971     Brazil                         Ports               45.0           24.4
757     1971     Superintendencia de Agua       Witer Supply        22.0            0.5
e Esgotos da Capital
758     1971     Companhia Mbtropolitana de     Control             12.0            2.2
Saneanento do Sao Paulo
786     1971     Redo Ferroviaria Federal       Railways            46.0            5.2
797     1972     Coupanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry           64.5            2.6
812     1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de          Industry           63.0            7.3
Minas Oerais
813     1972     Brazil                         Roads               89.0            2.8
828     1972     Conpanhia Siderurgica          Industry            64.5            3.7
Paulista
829     1972     Centrais Eletricas de Minas    Power               60.0            7.9
Gerais - Sao Simao
853     1972     Brazil                         Land Setl.           6.7            5.7
887     1973     LIGHT-Servicos de Eletri.       Power              20.0           13.6
923     1973     Furnas Centrais Eletricas -    Power              125.0           79.2
Ituibiara
924     1973     Brazil                         Agro-Indust.        54.0           32.5
1008     1974     Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao      Power              81.0           78.0
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009     1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao    Water Supply         36.0          23.5
1067     1974     Brazil                          Education           23.5          23.3
1074     1975     Redo Ferroviaria Federal        Railways           175.0         168.2
1075     1975     Brazil                          Roads              110.0           84.5
1151     1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry            95.0           95.0
1152     1975     Coupanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry            60.0           59.3
1153     1975     Brazil                          Agriculture         23.0           21.0
1171     1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0           75.0
1195     1976     Brazil                          Rural Develop.      12.0           12.0



Tf ATATUS OF BANK GROUP 2PGiTONS IN BRAZIL
(AS OF FzBuART 2t , 1977)
Amount loes      Undis-
Loan #    Year              Borrower                 Purpose      Canallatiqn      bureod
1206     1976     Brazil                          Develop. Bank       85.0          85.0
1207     1976     Brazil                          Feeder Roada       55.0           55.0
1249     1976     Brazil                          Agriculture         4o0.0         39.7
1256     1976     Petrobras Fartilizantes         Fertilizer          50.0          16.7
1257     1976     Companhia Paraense de           Power               52.0           52.0
Energia Kletrica-COPEL
1304     1976     Eletrobras                      Power               50.0          50.0
1302     1976     Brazil                          Nutrition           19.0          19.0
1309     1976     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply        40.0          60.0
1317 /2 1976      Brazil                          Agro. Industry      83.0          63.0
1343 77  1977     ELETROSUL                       Power               82.0           82.0
1362 72 1977      State of Minas Gerais           Rural Develop.      42.0           1
Total                                            3,009.5 /1    1,133.6
Of iudch has been repaid to the Bank               354.2
Total now outstanding                            2,655.3
Asount Sold                      45.5
of which has been paid         19.9               25.6
Totia now held by Bank                          2,629.7
Total Undisbursed                                              1,433..6
A    No mA credits have been made to Brazil.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX I I
Page 3
B.  STATeMeNT OF IFC INVESTYENTS     (AS of  P5b-naY 28, 197T)
pi-cal Year                              Oblig-r                                          Type of Bosines.                                              A.ont in US$ mili.on
Loans     EquSty     Total
1957             Siemens do    rasil Ci.. d   Eletritidade                            El.ctric.l Eq.iam-nt                                         2 00                200
1958             Olinkr-ft, SA.    Cel.oine e Pap.l                                  Pulp aSd Paper                                                1 20       -        1 20
1958             D.L.R. Plestic-    do Bn-il, 5.                                    Atneeotine Pants                                              0 45                0 45
1958             Willy.-O-sl-nd do Br-ail, S A
1ndoanriaie Conercie                                              Hotor Vehicles                                                2.45       -        2 45
1959             Coepanhia Mineira de Ci-note P-rIleed, S.A.                         Cean                                                          1 20       -        1 20
1959             Chmpten C.lolas., S.A                                                Poip                                                         4 00       -        4 00
1966/1968/
1972             Acon Villrn-. SA.                                                   Ste-1                                                        8 00      1 93      9 93
1966/1969        Pepel e CelloSe Cat-rinense, S A                                   Pulp and Paper                                                3.71      3.48      7 19
1967/1972        Ultr-f-rtil, SA. - lodostnlae Co-eenti
de Fe-tihl.-.tea                                                  Fertili-se.                                                  8,22      3 03     11 25
1969             Pec.oq.i.leO  Unian.  S.A.                                          PaSre-hAi-al.                                                 5.50      2 88      8 38
1970              PolioSefinoe, S.. leds-ia A Coeerti                               Per-oh-i-ala                                                  5 50      2 88      8 38
1971             O         Si.ee. .. ISnd-attl a   Co-eriot                           Pei.o.h-Ai-al.                                               4 60      1 44      6 04
1971             Indoetnia dn C1llose grreae-ard, SA.                               Pu1p                                                          4 90       -        4 90
1972/1975        Coapoekia do Cieente Ntional de Mie.e                               C-eent                                                       29 14      3.20     32 34
1973/1974/1927   Co=pe-hia Slder--gic. do C.anabac-     - COSI0UA                    Steel                                                        76.96      7.50     84.46
1973             Cepitel Market De-e1ep.enI FPnd - FUMCAP                            Capital Market De-elpe-nn                                     5 00       -        5 00
1973             EPpres. de DSsen.   ol.lyei-o do Rec.r.s.
Minerala - CODEHIN, S.A.                                          Nickel Micleg and Refi.nig                                  26 00      4 40     30 40
1974             Ildo-irtas Vliaee., S.A.                                             le-acrso ed Indu-itrl EqipN.en.                             6 00       -        b 00
1974             Fabtice do Tecidoa Tat-pe. S.A.                                     Te.tiles                                                     31 00       -       31 00
1975             Capn,e-  Carbeoea Ied-ftrilie Ltd.                                  C-rbn Black                                                   6 18      1.08      7 26
1975             O.itene Nordeste., SA.                                               Pacrochic-ls                                                10 00       -       I0 00
1976             Santleta Ind-trli    - Te-1il do NMrd.ete, S A                      Teeiles                                                       6 45      1 00      7 45
1976             Tecano.  S A. - Tentil Catan-iene. do Nordeste                      Te-silee                                                      6 00       -        6 00
Total GC.as Ceeite-ntn                                                                                                         254.46     32.82    287.28
L.ea Contellationa, Te-i-natiece, Repay..eet     and Sales                                                                     184.70      8.34    193.04
Tonal C-nlt-nt. Non. Held by IFC                                                                                                69.76     2b4.8     94.24
Total Und,lb.r-ed                                                                                                               18.60      0.53     19.14



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of February 28, 1977)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:    US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is pro-
gressing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four
generating units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun
of about US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction
costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The cost overrun is being
financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The
construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow required
modifications, is proceeding satisfactorily. The project is
expected to be completed shortly.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21.1971;
Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo
not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are now in-
cluded in the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company, SABESP,
was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the reorganization
of the sector and of management problems which are now resolved, the
Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975 has been postponed to June 30,
1977. Progress of the project has improved with new management
of the company which took office in March 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project has improved with new management which took office in March
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
location of the workshop resulting from the Government s decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977. The latest cost estimate, is US$736 million, an
increase of about 72% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 90%
complete and is about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The original Closing Date was July 1, 1976.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date:   July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% over the appraisal estimate, due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well
underway. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$784
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about sixteen months behind
the original schedule. The original Closing Date was January 15,
1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. Thirty-nine subprojects have been approved, and the loan is
almost fully committed. All subprojects approved are in various
stages of construction. Disbursements reached 35% (US$12.5 million)
as of December 31, 1976, and are expected to be completed by June
1979.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated seriously in 1975 and 1976 because of
increased costs of materials and higher social charges which were
not matched by adequate tariff increases. Procurement is progres-
sing reasonably well, although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding generally on schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties CSN has contracted
special consultancy services to review the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about nine months behind the original schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is
underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. CODEVASF is making good progress
in defining the details of the project and should be in a position
to let several major contracts during 1977. Cost estimates remain
at the same level as reported by the last supervision report
because, until new bids are received, there is no meaningful basis
for revising them. Procurement problems experienced in the past
have been carefully reviewed with CODEVASF staff and it is antici-
pated that with a better understanding of what is required there
will be fewer problems in the future. The Technical Department
of CODEVASF has improved over the last six months, and, for the
first time, CODEVASF appears to be fully in control of the project,
leading and supervising the various consulting firms under contract.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):   US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Implementation of the Project is progressing slower than expected,
mainly because of lack of State Government funds to finance FEPASA's
Investment Plan, and a revision of that plan will be necessary.
FEPASA is in a serious financial situation, and tariffs for most of
the commodities are too low to cover increasing costs; however,
FEPASA has taken positive steps in order to correct this situation.
As of December 5, 1976 FEPASA increased its published freight tariff
by 25%.and its intercity passeger tariffs by 20% and is planning
further increases. Cuts in operational costs are also being pre-
pared, and if all the measures included in FEPASA's Plan of Action
are implemented, FEPASA will come close to meeting the financial
targets set at appraisal for 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:   US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date:   July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Initial disbursements have now been made. Operational
plans for 1977 were prepared and are satisfactory, and the project
unit has made progress in resolving problems related to project start-
up. Recent delays in the transfer of funds from the Federal Government
to state level executing agencies, which interfered with performance,
have now been corrected.
1206      Development Banking Project:   US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Because of the Government's introduction of a 20% ceiling on annual
monetary correction on loans contracted in 1976 from federal lending
institutions by industrial enterprises, only investment subprojects
contracted after January 1, 1977 will be eligible for financing under
the loan. Project implementation is expected to be completed as
originally anticipated by March 31, 1979.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:   US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:   US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:   US$52 million loan of MIarch 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:   US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1309      Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project Project II:   US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective rate: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. Eighty-four sub-projects have
been approved for this loan. The majority of them are in small
communities under 5,000 inhabitants. Bank disbursements should
begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
VALEFERTIL PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Fertilizantes Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
Guarantor:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                US$82 million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 8.20% interest
per annum. Fee of 1.80% payable to Guarantor.
Project
Description:         The project consists of the construction of a phosphate
fertlizer plant near Uberaba in Minas Gerais, with a
manufacturing capacity of 1,000 metric tons per day of
monoammonium phosphate (MAP) and 1,100 metric tons per
day of triple phosphate (TSP). The project will also
produce the intermediate sulphuric acid and phosphoric
acid needed to produce the fertilizer and includes
facilities for the storage and transportation of its
products.
Estimated Cost:                                            -------US$ Million---------
Foreign  Local  Total     %
Equipment and Materials (FOB)         49.6    32.2    81.8    41
Freight, Insurance and Taxes           3.8     12.0   15.8     8
Civil Works                            3.2     18.2   21.4    11
Erection                                 -    28.9    28.9    15
Land and Site Improvement                -      7.5    7.5     4
Engineering Services                  10.2     16.2   26.4    13
Preoperating Expenses                    -     11.5   11.5     6
Testing and Commissioning              2.5      1.7    4.2     2
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)              69.3    128.2  197.5   100
Physical Contingencies (PC)            6.4     12.0   18.4
Price Escalation                       9.6     18.9   28.5
Installed Cost                        85.3   159.1   244.4
Working Capital                        6.6    26.4    33.0
Interest During Construction          11.7     4.9    16.6
Total Financing Required             103.6   190.4  294.0



ANNEX III
Page 2
Financing Plan:                                                     US$ Million
Equity contribution from CVRD                     118
Local Loans                                        70
Foreign Private Lenders                            24
IBRD                                               82
294
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 US$ Million by Calendar Year
1977      1978       1979
Annually                     25.0      48.0        9.0
Cumulative                   25.0      73.0       82.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        For goods to be financed under the proposed loan,
procurement would follow Bank guidelines. The proceeds
of the Bank loan would finance expenditures for:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures for
cost of foreign engineering, licenses and technical
advisory services (US$10.7 million); (b) 100% of
foreign exchange (if imported) or ex-factory (if
locally supplied) price of equipment procured through
ICB (US$54.0 million); (c) the CIF value of imported
items and package costing less than US$100,000 each
to be purchased through international shopping
(US$8.3 million); and (d) interest during construc-
tion on the Bank loan (US$9.0 million).
Technical
Assistance:          The project will be implemented by VALEFERTIL through
its own project team, which will be strengthened with
technical advisers. The project team will supervise
and coordinate the work of the consulting engineering
firms. The general engineering contractor is a con-
sortium of FLUOR Latin America Inc., a subsidiary of
the FLUOR Corporation (USA), and NATRON Consultoria e
Projetos of Brazil. The consortium will provide over-
all project management, detailed engineering of process
plants and engineering of offsite facilities, procure-
ment services, management of subcontracted construction
and erection services, and supervision of commissioning.
The process licensors will assist NATRON in detailed
engineering design and train VALEFERTIL personnel in the
operation and maintenance of the processing plants.



ANNEX III
Page 3
FLUOR will head the consortium and will also undertake
foreign procurement; NATRON will undertake local pro-
curement and supervision of construction.
Rate of Return:        The estimated economic rate of return is 22%.
Completion Date:       Project completion expected July 1979.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 1452-BR, dated April 7, 1977.



ANNEX IV
BRAZIL
VALEFERTIL PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately eight
months (from January 1, 1976 to September 1976)
(b) Project prepared by: Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1976
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 8, 1976
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 17, 1977
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: August 15, 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government will exchange views with the Bank on the
expansion and development of the fertilizer sector, including
investment plans and import and pricing policies (paragraph 37).
(b) After VALEFERTIL has been in operation for two years it will
undertake a study with VALEP to determine the feasibility of
increasing and/or balancing the outputs of the two projects
and if necessary both will make the additional investments
required (paragraph 46).
(c) VALEFERTIL will enter into a long-term phosphate rock supply
contract with VALEP and if the latter's production proves
to be inadequate, other sources of phosphate rock would be
utilized to ensure operation at full capacity (paragraph 47).
(d) Marketing plans are to be completed by December 1977, in
consultation with the Bank (paragraph 51).



I_BR D- 12055R I
Ce'bb  Se                                                                                                   APRIL 1977
50.)  E0-
-'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
B F sRAZ  I~ LFO\RsoF                                                                  r   TALZA
0~'H
\      UTHX                                                             S               -ucrp
c | A M|                                                          TERESINA      Croe-  m/  ,, hOsoop tA
MEICA                                             ~OO
A OF MAP                                                                      -W                 ATAL
(A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
B R A Z I L                                                  Cb.d.l.
oAtintic                     MAJOR     FERTILIZER   PLANTS                 SoPRESSO GroAde
Ocean                                                                                             ECIFE
AMMONIA  PHOSPHATE  ACID         P,l              d
PLANTS  MINES   PLANTS           Pe8erre,rov
The I-d-., f  rho 0                PROPOSED
rhe~~~~~~- &o_issdw  / hsmpd  X                                                                    MACEIO
-P, I -    .. ore_,, or ecOep-ob, ,h.  UNDER CONSTRUCTION        J        C       -ehp d   Rore,  C PIrog
IO,IdOo-k ood,ooff,IeIes           OPERATING     A              0        F .o lm.olo
10                                                                                J              ARACAJU10'
i Borro \\ /  5ERG/PEPROJECr
RAILROADS
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        Io      e  A)I
(     {tSA~~LVADOR
,BRASILIA
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~GOIGNlIA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ReAN%                               MonIes Cleros/
/\Porro ESIIOrongo                                 .  4pVodre                 1
6  X    C°mdPO    51o FVALEPEuRTIL  JECT, Ube  o b  Despeclro8O,b  °°           PLANTS AND MINES
\  ~~  7   + -    S    EpEFr3Onco  §t>  tororngo~~~~;? /      > AMMONIA PLANTS
>                    P.,                      -H,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O -, ~ ~ LX PAE
-2D-' *.-*vE oPoole Per0 deoC nho>  oq    r5                   do )  A  b  pos       A PETROTERTIL I            20--
\   A         =       z    g     _       gCor ons  /oo            SERGIPE
P A R AG UA Y      Genorle  H ourO     ARrei °/4 20         *T.  8
B- 1, GurpuvPLu 9E1s            PHOSPHATE MINES
'2                 O u o o p o,  P ong  le Gr o;  l e  @ / , n o u                     O U C M IG / R A PI E RT I IA N A   IA C U A N A
P3rle Uno             ECTIPROJECT AbAFERTIL ARAXA
_r_ >       R~~~oreho_r                                                     MINERACAO CATALA0 ICATALAO1
G Se RoleO                                                               META0 FICATALtD
ABS°° Fundo X , mbilubo Eg Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  UIMBI1ASIIJSERRANA IIPANEMAI
9  rO85 1 ( Rosq Soles/   zf                                 E~~~~~~~~~~ PAT05DEMINAS
IIKN                       PHOSPHORIC ACID PLANTS
G<oeole,      CocIleRre  ,PORT )ALEGRE                         ~()QIBAI
I... bvrom S  do eSul s 1¢.>2l                                             8 CQPEBRAS
23RI   AULRAERTIL
d, C- W                                                        A   PVALEFERTIL
C,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
PARAGUAY                                         C_______N_
Jogu|iro'o Re Geronde                                                          MINES
111U  R U  G U A Y   '2.1Z KILOMESER5   tx  20,0  J,oo  *00  sx   8  LUCHSINGER
(   g   50'               2x     3x          40E



