CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1411 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FERTILIZANTES VALE DO RIO GRANDE S.A. - VALEFERTIL
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and FERTILIZANTES VALE DO RIO GRANDE S.A. - VALEFERTIL (herein-
after called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "CVRD" means Companhia Vale Do Rio Doce enterprise
established and operating in Brazil which owns substantially all
the shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b) "CVRD Shareholder Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and CVRD whereby CVRD agrees,
inter alia, to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
provision of funds to the Borrower for the Project;
(c) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower set
Zorth in the escritura de constituigao da sociedade Fertilizantes
Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL, dated February 17, 1976, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(d)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries;
(e)  "VALEP" means Minera,o Vale do Paranaiba S.A. -
VALEP, an enterprise established and operating in Brazil,
substantially owned and controlled by CVRD; and
(f) "VALEP Project" means the phosphate mining and
beneficiation project that VALEP is constructing at Tapira, State
of Minas Gerais, and includes a pipeline therefrom to the site of
the Project, and phosphate rock dewatering, drying and storage
facilities at such pipeline's terminal.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighty-two million dollars ($82,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest
and other charges on the Loan.
(b)   On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
(if any) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower shall enter into contracts for *.e
equipment listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement only with suppliers
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization sche(.ile set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological, environmental and
safety factors, and, to that end, the Borrower shall monitor and
treat effectively the ecologically harmful discharge from the
Project facilities and adopt normal safety provisions.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in (a)
supervising its engineering contractors, and in commissioning and
initial plant operation, and (b) developing its organizational
structure, administrative and commercial policies and procedures,
and financial control and information systems, the Borrower shall
employ technical and management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1977, or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, enter into a contract
with FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista S.A. for the construction of
a rail spur to the site of the Project and provision of railroad


﻿- 8 -
cars for the transport of sulphur, fuel oil and finished products,
all as required for the timely and efficient operation of the
manufacturing plant included in the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insur.-ace any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to reflect the progress and cost of the Project and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall,


﻿-9-
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
and documents of the Borrower, and shall furnish to the Bank all
such information relating thereto as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, carry out its operations, plan the development of its
business and undertaking and maintain its financial position, all
in accordance with sound industrial, financial and administrative
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain its plants,
equipment, properties and facilities and shall, from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and (ii) not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets required for the efficient carrying out of its business
and undertaking, including the carrying out of the Project, except
in the normal course of its business or with the prior agreement
of the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary: (i) to maintain its right to carry on its operations,
including the Project; and (ii) to acquire and retain such land
and properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the construction and operation of the Project and the
conduct of its business and undertaking.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound industrial
insurance practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall inform the Bank before
establishing or acquiring any Subsidiary or making any substantial
financial commitment in or with regard to any Subsidiary.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) appoint by September 1, 1977 a competent person to be
responsible for commercial and marketing matters of the Borrower,
to enable him to participate in formulating the development of the
organizational plan of the Borrower; and
(b) by December 31, 1977, formulate, in consultation with
the Bank, plans for marketing the product of the manufacturing
plants included in the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) on or about a date two years from the date of initial
operation of the manufacturing plants included in the Project,
carry out, with VALEP, a study of: (i) the output of the VALEP
Project in the light of the requirements of the plants included in
the Project, and (ii) the feasibility of increasing the output
of the VALEP Project and of the Project and of taking any other
measure which may be required to balance such outputs;


﻿- 12 -
(b) furnish the results of such study to the Bank, promptly
after its completion; and
(c) if such study recommends that the Borrower's facilities
be expanded or improved, make the investments required therefor in
consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1977, enter, after
consultation with the Bank, into a long-term phosphate rock supply
contract with VALEP, whereby VALEP will: (i) sell to the Borrower
the output of the VALEP Project, of suitable quality and in
adequate quantities, to the extent that such output can be
utilized by the manufacturing plants included in the Project; and
(ii) undertake to carry out, with the Borrower, the study referred
to in Section 4.06 (a) hereof;
(b) review, with the assistance of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, the designs of the
facilities included in the Project to permit the use of phosphate
rock from sources other than the VALEP Project; and
(c) utilize in the operation of the plants included in the
Project, phosphate rock from sources other than the VALEP Project,
either domestic or foreign, if required to operate said plants at
their full capacity.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each of the Borrower's
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 14 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien,
or if any lien shall be created, on any assets of the Borrower as
security for any debt, the Borrower shall forthwith create, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien, satisfactory to the Bank, to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower:
(a) shall not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for
value any shares in the Borrower's capital;
(b) (i) shall at all times after the completion of the
Project, maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
of not less than 1.2:1, and (ii) shall not pay dividends (other
than dividends payable in shares in the Borrower's capital or
dividends on the preferred shares of the Borrower issued in
accordance with the Estatutos), or make any equity investment in


﻿- 15 -
or loan to, any Subsidiary, or prepay any loan other than the
Loan, or prepay part of the oustanding amount of the Loan or make
any other cash distribution, if after any such payment or
investment or loan such ratio would be smaller than 1.5:1;
(c) shall at all times after the completion of the Project,
maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 60:40;
(d) shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof
its projected debt service coverage ratio would fall below 1.5:1
for any fiscal year after the completion of the Project, including
the debt to be incurred;
For purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
and maturing more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under
a loan contract or agreement, on the date it is
drawn down but only to the extent that it is
outstanding, and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date such agreement is entered into;
(iii) "debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio
between the reasonably estimated net revenues
for any fiscal year and the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments,


﻿- 16 -
if any) of, and interest and other charges on,
debt payable in the same fiscal year,
(iv)  "equity" means the sum of the Borrower's
unimpaired paid-in share capital, surplus and free
reserves; provided, however, that if the Borrower,
at the time has any Subsidiary, there shall be
excluded therefrom such items as shall represent
equity interests of the Borrower in any Subsidiary
or of any Subsidiary in the Borrower or in any
other Subsidiary;
(v)  "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less all operating and administrative
expenses, and amounts paid or to be paid within
the year on account of taxes; provided that the
operating and administrative expenses shall not
include interest and other charges on debt, and
provision for depreciation of assets;
(vi)  "current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months, less an appropriate
reserve for bad debts, prepaid expenses, and
inventories and all other assets (excluding spare
parts), which could in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into
cash;


﻿- 17 -
(vii) "current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, amounts due
for income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other
liabilities due and payable, or which could be
called for payment, within twelve months; and
(viii) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor obligations
denominated in another currency, such valuation
shall be made using the rates of exchange
provided by the Banco Central do Brasil; and
(e) until December 31, 1985, consult with the Bank before
undertaking any expansion program or making any investment other
than those related to the Project involving aggregate annual
expenditures exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall punctually pay to the
Guarantor the fee referred to in the Preamble to the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all measures required
on its part to obtain: (i) a loan in the currency of the Guarantor,
from Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial - FINAME or any
other source, in an amount equivalent to about $22,000,000,
to be repaid in not less than 8 years, including a grace period of


﻿- 18 -
about 2-1/2 years, for purposes of the Project; and (ii) within
six months after the date of this Agreement, loans ii foreign
exchange in such aggregate amount, currently estimated to be
$24,000,000 equivalent, and, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, to be repaid in not less than 7 years, including a grace
period of not less than 2 years as shall be required for purposes
of the Project.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Estatutos which
shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) CVRD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the CVRD Shareholder Agreement; and
(c) the right of the Borrower to utilize the funds provided
under the CVRD Shareholder Agreement shall have been suspended or
cancelled, in whole or in part.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any debt for money borrowed by the Borrower with an
original maturity of one year or more shall have become due and
payable before its agreed maturity in accordance with the terms
thereof.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central
do Brasil; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the CVRD Shareholder
Agreement on behalf of CVRD have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;
(b) on behalf of CVRD, that the CVRD Shareholder Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by all corporate and
governmental action, and is legally binding upon CVRD in
accordance with its terms; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to


﻿- 21 -
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform all of the obligations of the Borrower in this
Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof relating to
procurement of goods and services for the Project) together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and that no other such acts,
consents or approval are required in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of the obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The date August 1, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Fertilizantes Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
Avenida Olegario Maciel, 2251
30000 Belo Horizonte - MG
Brazil
Telex:
311 349 FVRG BR


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representativ-s thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FERTILIZANTES.VALE DO RIO GRANDE S.A. -
VALEFERTIL
By Is/ H. Baptiston
Authorized Representative
By /s/ R. Leite
Authorized Representative


﻿- 24-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare             59,000,000          100% of foreign
parts and mate-                                expenditures or
rials                                           100% of the ex-
factory cost of
goods manufac-
tured in Brazil
(2) Foreign engineering          10,000,000          100% of foreign
and technical. assis-                           expenditures
tance services
(3) Interest and other            8,000,000          Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
September 30, 1979
(4) Unallocated                   5,000,000
TOTAL        82,000,000


﻿- 25 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" neans expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $6,200,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
August 15, 1976.


﻿- 26 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, located about 37 km south of Uberaba City, in
the State of Minas Gerais, consists of the following:
Part A:
Construction of two sulphuric acid plants, each with a
manufacturing capacity of about 1,300 metric tons per day
of 98.5% acid.
Part B:
Construction of two phosphoric acid plants, each with a
manufacturing capacity of about 470 metric tons per day of
P205 in the form of 52% acid; including facilities for
the recovery of fluosilicic acid and, at the option of the
Borrower, facilities for the production of either cryolite or
aluminum fluoride.
Part C:
Construction of one monoammonium phosphate plant with a
manufacturing capacity of about 1,000 metric tons per day.
Part D:
Construction of one triple superphosphate plant with a
manufacturing capacity of about 1,100 metric tons per day.


﻿- 28 -
Part E:
Construction of storage facilities for about 30,000 metric
tons of sulphuric acid, about 8,500 metric tons of phosphoric
acid, 4,000 tons of ammonia, 2,500 tons of fuel oil, 28,000
tons of sulphur, and 100,000 tons of finished products.
Part F:
Construction of a rail spur connecting the above mentioned
plants with the railroad network of FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista
S.A., and provision of 25 ammonia tankwagons to transport
ammonia.
Part G:
Construction of offices, laboratories, maintenance shops,
effluent treatment, supply of utilities (including a water
pipeline of about 2 km from the Rio Grande River) and other
ancillary facilities required for the above mentioned
manufacturing plants.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1979, and
will be deemed to have been completed only when the manufacturing
facilities included in it shall have been in satisfactory operation
for not less than sixty consecutive days at an average production
rate of not less than 80% of their respective designed capacities.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1980
through   October 1, 1991                   3,415,000
On April 1, 1992                                 3,455,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal,


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               7.10%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               8.20%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works (if any) shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
The Borrower may procure imported equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, based on a
list approved by the Bank after obtaining quotations from a
reasonable number of suppliers from different countries; provided
that the aggregate cost of items so procured shall not exceed the
equivalent of $8,300,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the f.o.b. (port of shipment) and the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for


﻿- 32 -
domestically manufactured goods; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, including merchant fleet
renewal and port improvement taxes, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import


﻿- 33 -
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each
group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a resirlt of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (1) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods in each
group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group B bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods;
and (2) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically
offered in each group B Did, an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be
levied on the goods offered in such group B bid if they originated
from the same foreign country as the goods included in the group B
bid which is subject to the lowest customs duties and other import
taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If,
as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the


﻿- 34-
lowest, it shall be selected for the purpose of award; if not,
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph
(c) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   The Borrower shall, before initiating procurement of
equipment, including the preparation of the list of suppliers,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedures to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more:
(a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time to enable the Bank to comment thereon, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures


﻿- 35 -
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modiffration to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 36 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
4.   For bid comparison purposes there shall be used the rates
of exchange provided by Banco Central do Brasil.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 5
List of Critical Equipment
A.   Sulphuric Acid Plant
1.   Sulphur Pumps
2.   Sulphur Filter
3.   Sulphur Burner
4.   Waste Heat Boiler
5.   Vanadium Pentoxide Catalyst
6.   Air Blowers and Turbines
7.   Sulphuric Acid Pumps
8.   Acid Coolers
B.   Phosphoric Acid Plant
1.   Attack Tank Agitator
2.   Acid Filter
3.   Vacuum Pump
4.   Phosphoric Acid Pumps
5.   Phosphoric Acid Concentration Units
C.   Map and TSP Plants
1.   Broadfield Den
2.   T-Reactor
D.   General Facilities
1.   Ammonia Storage Spheres
2.   Turboalternator


