CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1411 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 29, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1977, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Fertilizantes Vale do Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two
million dollars ($82,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the
Borrower's agreement to pay to the Guarantor a fee of 1.8% per
annum of the equivalent, in the currency of the Guarantor, of the
disbursed and outstanding balance of the Loan, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the
Borrower and to VALEP, including those provided pursuant to the
CVRD Shareholder Agreement, will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the timely carrying out of the
Project and the VALEP Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or VALEP, or both,
as the case may be, or cause the Borrower or VALEP, or both, as the
case may be, to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance of such
import and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary for
the acquisition and importation of the goods and services required
for the carrying out of the Project and the VALEP Project, and for
their efficient operation at full capacity.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall cause CVRD punctually to
perform all its obligations under the CVRD Shareholder Agreement,
and shall take or cause to be taken all action required to enable
the Borrower and VALEP to make the investments, if any, recommended
in the study referred to in Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall not take or permit to be
taken any action with regard to the price of either raw materials
used by the productive facilities included in the Project or of
the products thereof that may prevent the Borrower, operating
efficiently, from covering all its costs, servicing its debt,
and earning a reasonable return on its invested capital.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank
information on the expansion and development of the fertilizer
sector, including investments plans and import and pricing policies
and from time to time exchange views with the Bank thereon.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in che ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned o controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses-
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Ediffcio Minist6rio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Minist6rios
Brasilia, D.F. Brazil
Cable address:
Minifaz
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿WP#L-71-B(139-A-9)           - 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ M. H. Simonsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
REuONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


