Zl  >k   x' L(  - /
Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
[.r?;n.nt-1 P!.5. :F  CIfR45 LT                                  N .,5845-LT
_ It +t    :  .      l'.   A1   _
REPOWf AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SEPTEMBER 28, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LITHUANIA - REHABILITATION LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Currency unit     =      ruble and talonas (until September 30, 1992)
US$1.00       =     230 ruble = 230 talonas
i uble 1 = talonas 1    =     US$0.0043
Currency unit     =     talonas (as of October 1, 1992 - freely
floating)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CMEA         -      Council on Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC           -      European Community
EDI          -      Economic Development Institute
FIAS         -      Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FSU          -      Former Soviet Union
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IFC          -      International Finance Corporation
IMF          -      Irnternational Monetary Fund
OECD         -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PHARE        -      EC Technical Assistance Unit for Eastern Europe and the
Baltics
PIU          ^      Project Implementation Unit
Project Entity
Project Implementation Unit, Ministry of Finance
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LITHUANIA - REHLABILITATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Lithuania
Amount:      US$60 million equivalent
Terms:       Seventeen years maturity with a four year grace period at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Deseription: The Government of Lithuania is committed to economic reform. Its goal is to
maintain a stable macroeconomic environment while introducing the structural reforms
necessary to make productive sectors efficient and internatiwially competitive. The
objectives of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan are to support the economic reform
while at the same time providing ciltically-needed foreign exchange finance for
essential imports. US$45 million of the loan would finance imports of inputs essential
to control further declines in output of the energy and agricultural sectors, as well as
vitally-needed pharmaceutical products. US$15 million would be made available for
purchase with local currency in commercial banks for the import needs of individual
productive enterprises. Procurement and disbursement operations for the proposed
loan, as well as critical elements of the reform program are being supported with
about US$4 million of technical assistance in a number of areas which is expected to
be financed by grant funds from the EC PHARE program and the Government of
Sweden. Ihis operation has been prepared in parallel with an IMF Standby
Arrangement that is expected to be considered by the Fund Board in mid-October,
1992.
Bnefits and
Risks:       The proposed loan would maintain and increase capacity utilization of productive
sectors, and ensure minimum availability of essential medicines and health supplies,
while at the same time supporting the Government's overall economic reform
program. The principle risk is possible negative repercussions due to the social
tensions created by implementation of the reform program. Lithuanians face declining
real wages, falling consumption, rising unemployment, and the loss of the security
and predictability of socialism, without immediate corresponding gains from reform.
These social tensions are already finding expression through the political system and
this process could, at some point, set back the reform program. The social safety-net,
and Bank support for it, may be crucial in sustaining the reform process.
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Appraisal Report:          Not applicable
Schedule of                Bank Fiscal Year    FY93 -  US$35 miltion
Disbursements:                                 FY94 -  US$25 million
Mlp:                      IBRD No. 23707
This document has a restricted distribution and may be tied by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherw:se be 6sclosed without World Bank authoruation 



LITHUANIA - REHABILkTATION LOAN
Contents
Page No
Lo?a!i and Program Summary
1.    The Economy  .......................................                               1
A. Background ......... ..............................                             I
B. Recent Economic Developments.                                                  2
External Trade and Output.                                                2
Prices and Terms of Trade.                                                4
Wages and Employment.                                                      5
Fiscal and Monetary Policy                      .5
Reform of the Enterprise Sector.                                          6
Financial Sector Reform.                                                   7
Social Security System . ............................   7
Il.     Development Prospects and Uncertainties ........           ..............          8
A. Prospects for Stabilization and Structural Reform  .....       ..........      8
B. External Trade and Balance of Payments Prospects   .....          ........    10
C. Major Uncertainties  . ................................                       12
M.  External Financing and Creditworthiness ...                          ..  15
A. Finncing Requirements    ..15
B. Sources of Financing  ........             ................                   15
C. Matching Financing Requirements and Sources .......              .........    18
Matching by Geographical Origin of Imports .......           ........    18
Matching by Type of End Use .........         ..      .............    20
D. External Debt and Debt Service ..........        ..       ..............    21
E. Creditworthiness ...................................    21
IV.    The Government's Economic Reform Program  ....... ..               ..........    22
A. The Stabilization Program  .............................    22
Prices and Wages ................................    22
Incomes Policy ..................................    24
Fiscal Policy ...................................    24
Currency Reform and Monetary Policy  ..................    24
External Policy    ................................    25
B. Structural Reforms .26
Enterprise Reform .26
Competition Policies .29
Financial System Reform .30
Socia Protection and the Social Safety Net .31
Economic Management .32
connued ....



LITIUANIA - REHABILITATION LOAN
Contents (continued)
Page No
V.      Bank Group Assistance Strategy    ...........................    33
A. Overview ard Objectives of the Strategy  .......           ..............    33
B. Macroeconomic and Systemic Reforms  .......               ..............    34
Macroeconomic Policies   ...........             ................    34
Systemic Reforms   . ..............................                         34
Sector-Specific Reforms ............            ................    36
C. Summary of the Baiik's Assistance Program    ......            ...........    37
Lending  .....................................                              37
Economic and Sector Work   .........             ................    38
Technical Assistance  .     .............................                   38
D. Other Bank Group Activities  ...........              ................           38
E. Collaboration with Other Agencies   ........            ...............    39
VI.   The Proposed Rehabilitation Loan   ............ ..............    39
A. Background  ....................................                                 39
Rationale for Bank Involvement ........            ...............    40
B. The Project  ....................................                                40
Objectives  ....................................                           40
Project Description ................................  40
Essential Imports  . ...............................    41
Commercial Channel . .............................  42
Project Implementation   ............           ................    42
Procurement ...................................                            43
Disbursement  ...................................   44
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting  .......            .............    44
C. Agreements Reached  . ...............................                            45
D. Environmental Aspects ................................  45
E. Benefits and Risks ..................................                            45
VII.   Recommendation  ....................................                                 46
Annexes
1. Key Economic and Social Indicators ........             ...............    47
2. Timetable of Key Processing Events ........             ...............    49
3. Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies ......                 ............    50
4. Goods Eligible for Bank Financing  .........            ...............    61
5. Technical Assistance . ................................                          63
Map IBRD No. 23707



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON&rRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TIRE EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF LMWHUANIA
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Lithuania for the equivalent of US$60 million to finance
essential imports in support of a program of macoeconomic stabilization and systemic and
stuctural reforms. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a
maurity of 17 years inclte .ng a grace period of 4 years.1 Cofinancing on a parallel basis
will be provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan in an amount to be determined, out of a
total of US$100 million equivalent for all three Baltic countries. Cofinancing of US$250,000
is being provided on a grant basis by the government of Sweden for implementation-related
technical assistance. Financing for technical assistance to support a number of measures in
the Government's economic reform plan is being sought from a variety of donors.
2.           The Republic of Lithuania joined the IBRD on July 6, 1992. An economic
Mission visited Lithuania in January/February 1992, and a draft Countyy Economic
Memorandwn (CEM)-0Llthuania: The TRansiton to a Market Economy' will be distributed
to the Board shortly.
-. The Economy
A. Background
3.           Lithuania is the southernmost and largest Baltic country, with a territory of
65,200 square kilometers and a population of 3.7 million people. It lies on the eastern shores
of the Baltic sea, sharing borders with Latvia to the north, Belarus to the east and Poland and
the Kaliningrad region of Russia to the south. The capital is Vilnius, with a population of
about 600,000. More than 80 percent of the people are of Lithuanian origin. Lithuania does
not have abundant mineral resources. It has some minerals used maiy in the construction
inustry (quartz sand, limestone, dolomite, clay), peat deposits, and insignificant oil deposits.
4.           The formation of Lithuania dates back to the thirteenth century, with the
establishment of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Lithuania became part of the Russian empire
in the nineteenth century. Following German occupation during World War I, Lithuania
enjoyed a brief period of independence until World War II. In 1940, the Soviet Army
occupied Lithuania and formally incorporated the country into the Soviet Union as the
lThuanian Socialist Soviet Republic. Soviet rule was briefly interrupted by the German
invasion and occupation of 1941-44, but in 1944 Lithuania was occupied by the Soviet Army
again and reincorporated into the Soviet Union.
5.           Lithuania's annexation by the Soviet Union after World 'Var II resulted in a
fbrced and radical transformation of its economy. Despite strong resistance to Soviet rule
if  Lbbuania is eated as a lower-aiddle ncome county for IBRD borrowmg pumposes on fte bads of a
combinaio of th currnt povidonal GNP per capita etimate for 1991 (about US$2,700) and the eqxpectd
teep de  (by mom t  20 percent, as disuosd in par 29 of this rport) in 199Q. GNP esimates for
economie of the fonner Soviet Union an sube ct to more tn the usual range of unoertinty and should
embf o imh rmaeamd a nmlpimnif nd faihiet tcn mwmnn



throughout the Stalinist period, Lithuania was fully incorporated into the Soviet centrally-
planned command system and, by the mid 1950s, its economy was barely distinguishable from
that in the rest of the Union. The Soviet period was characterized by rapid industrialization,
brought about by high rates of capital formation and forced labor movements from agriculture
to industry, and also from other parts of the Soviet Union, especially Russia, to Lithuarila.
Lithuania's comparatively well-developed infrastructure and skilled work-force motivatad
central planners to establish some relatively sophisticated industries !.n the country, including
various branches of the machine building and metal working industries as well as textile and
leather industries. Central planners also established the Baltics' only oil refinery and nuclear
power plant in Lithuania.
6.           During the 1980s, the limitations of the central planning model of
development became increasingly visible. Between 1982 and 1989, Lithuania"s real gross
domestic product (GDP) grew on average by a relatively modest 3.4 percent per year, despite
high levels of investment of around 30 percent of GDP throughout the period. ITe
technologies employed in civil industries fell increasingly behind those in western
industrialized countries and as a consequence, the environment suffered more than in the
west. The gradual relaxation of central planning by the Soviet authorities in the second half
of the 1980s did not succeed in stimulating an economic revival, since it was not accompanied
by the introduction of a well-functioning economic system. Instead, increasing political and
economic turmoil in the entire Soviet Union and, in particular, the lack of effective enterprise
control, appear to have intensified macroeconomic imbalances and led Lithuania's economy-
nd indeed all economies of the Former Soviet Union, (FSU)-into an unprecedented crisis.
7.           Lithuania's movement towards renewed economic and political independence
gained momentum during the late 1980s. On March 11, 1990, it declared the re-
establishment of its independence. International recognition of Lithuanian independence was
renewed in August/September 1991 after the failed coup in Moscow.
B. Rooent Econonic Developments
Etenal 7hade and Output
8.           As a result of ite past integration with the Soviet economy, Lithuania's
international trade has been very strongly oriented toward the FSU in recent years. Through
most of the 1980s and until 1991, FSU trade (trade with republics of the FSU) accounted for
about 90 percent of Lithuania's total external trade. More than half of Lithuania's total
external trade was with Russia. Non-FSU trade (exports and imports to and from countries
other than the FSU) amounted to less than 10 percent of total exports and less than 20 percent
of total imports. About half of this trade used to be with former CMEA countries (other than
the FSU), but this share fell somewhat in 1990 and 1991. Until independence in 1990,
Lithuania's aggregate trade balance was consistently negative at a level of around 10 percent
of GDP (Table 1). In 1991, the trade balance turned temporarily positive; but this was due to
the exceptional combination of a collapse of deliveries from Russia (para 10) and the
temporary positive terms-of-trade effect resulting from the Lithuanian price reform (para 13).



- 3 -
Table 1: Uthuanla - Main Economlc Indcators
1987        1988        1989          )w         1S91
Real Growth  ercn   ange from premous year)
Gros Domeatic Product                  0.2          9.5         1.1         -6.9       -15.0
Agricultur                            -5.2         2.9         -0.8       -11.1
hAdutry (including constution)         6.6        15.6          1.2        -12
Services                              -1.4         8.7          2.7       -10.4
(GP by Expenditre Categoty (as percnage of CDP)
Conwmption                             77.5        75.7        77.2         82.0
Pivate Consumption                  56.3         56.3        57.5         62.5
Govenment Consumption               21.2         19.4        19.7         19.5
rmss Domesuic Investment              33.2         38.0        33.3         29.5
Net Expons (goods and                 -10.7       -13.7       -10.4        -11.5
non-factor srvices)
Maoney, Prices and Wages (percent  ange from prmious year)
Money aspply gowth (percentage          ..          ..         14.2         55.4        143.0
chango fom end pvmous year)
CDP Dlator                              1.4        -1.4         6.1         12.5
Retil Pricoe                           4.7          2.4         2.1          8.4       224.7
Avage Nominal Monty Wage               4.8          9.0        10.4         16.3        165.4
Avere Re Monty Wage                    0.1          6.4         8.1          7.3       -18.0
Fiscol Acounts of the Generat Gowmmaent (perctage of GDP)
Total Revemes                         45.7         46.4        48.5         44.9        44.1
Ttal Expenditus                        49.2        49.1        52.0         47.8        40.9
Overall Balance                        -3.5        -2.7        -3.4         -2.8         3.2
Trade Aonts (percenage of GDP)
Trd Balance                           -10.0       -12.9        -8.1         -8.5         9.7
.. Dotes not availabi,.
9.              Lithuania imports primary and intermediate goods and exports finished goods
and food products. This reflects Lithuania's structure of production, which is oriented
towards machine-building and metal-processing industries (with a large share of consumer
electronics), light industry (primarily textiles), and food production (with a large share of
animal husbandry). The composition of its trade makes Lithuania highly dependent on inputs
from republics of the FSU. For example, Lithuania is a large importer of oil and gas from
Russia, for which it has no other source (existing port aad pipeline facilities are not suited for
the import of crude oil other than from Russia) and which it uses to produce and export
refined petroleum products and electricity and also re-exports to the rest of the world.
Similarly, Lithuania imports cotton, wool, and other fibers from Central Asia, primarily
Uzbekistan and Kyrghyzstan, for its textile industry, which accounts for a substantial share of
its exports.



-4-
10.         Tne disintegration of the FSU and the breakdown of dhe centralized trade
regime have had an overriding impact on Lithuania's economic performance. Following
Lithuania's declaration of independence, the Soviet goverunent imposed a trade embargo,
which lasted for two and a half months. Subsequently, the disruptions of FSTJ trade became
increasingly severe. Imports from the FSU declined sharply. Imports from other countries
fell even more sharply, mainly due to the scarcity of foreign exchange (Lithuania's foreign
exchange earning exports to other countries are smali) and the virtual halt of indirect imports
from third party countries through Moscow. The progressive disruption in trade and the
resulting decline in imports led to domestic shortages of a wide range of essential production
inputs an. maay consumption commod.ties (including food and medicines). By the beginning
of 1992, the supply situation for many industries had reached a critical state and some
enterprises had to halt production for lack of inputs. This translated into a marked decrease
in the level of output, by about 7 percent in 1990 and an estimated 15 percent in 1991 (Table
1).
Prices and Terms of Trade
11.          Lithuania started its price reforms in early 1991 in advance of reforms
instituted in Russia. Faced with increasing domestic shortages of consumer goods and the
possibility of spill-overs of demand for Lithuanian goods from other areas in the ruble zone,
the Governnent acted to protect domestic consumers, gradually abandoning Soviet pricinig
policies and adoptirg a policy of keeping domestic prices above prices in Russia and other
areas of the ruble zone. By early 1992 fewer than 20 percent of all goods and services
remained subject to price controls (mainly basic food items such as bread and milk, energy
products, and municipal services). Relative prices have started to adjust, including through
administrative price increases for groups of goods and services whose prices remain controlled
(such as energy or rents). However, substantial further adjustments are still to come and will
realistically continue for the next one or two years. The relatively energy-intensive sectors
are going to be affected most severely due to the additional future price increases of energy
products.
12.          The reduction in subsidies associated with the price reform has been dramatic:
they decreased from 17 percent of GDP in the late 1980s to 6 percent in 1991. At the same
time, the price reform led to a considerable acceleration of inflation. The average annual
rate of inflation in 1991 was about 225 percent. It acce! trated to around 50 percent per
month in January and February 1992, before receding to about 30 percent in March and to
average monthly rates of around 10 percent from April through June. Beginning in July,
inflation was rekindled by further sharp increases in the price of imported energy products.
13.          The Government's policy of liberalizing and increasing prices ahead of other
areas in the ruble zone resulted in a sharp temporary improvement in Lithuania's terms of
trade and a shift in the trade balance, from a deficit of 9 percent of GDP in 1990 to a surplus
of 10 percent in 1991, a period during which the adjustment in the prices of Lithuania's oil
aWd other energy imports from Russia was minimal. The price reform and the associated
terms of trade gain also led to a temporary improvement in the financial situation of
enterprises whose output prices rose faster than the prices of their impot. inputs. However,
the gains in Lithuania's terms of trade during 1991 began to erode rapidly in 1992 as price
reform occurred in Russia and Lithuania's energy import prices started to rise. By April
1992, the terms of trade improvement from 1991 had already been largely reversed.



Wages aLd Employment
14.          Adjustment in the labor market has orly just begun. Wages have not been
fully liberalized yet, with minimum and state sector wages, which provide a benchmark for
nearly all other wages, remaining controlled. Following significant increases in real wages in
the late 1980s, the Government's wage policy has aimed at compensating employees for price
increases and raising nominal wages faster than in other parts of the ruble area. Wages rose
more-or-less in line with prices during the first nine months of 1991, but increased sharply in
real terms towards the end of the year. However these gains have subsequently been eroded;
by July 1992 real wages were some 20% below their July 1991 level.
1S.          The temporary gains from Lithuania's improved terms of trade allowed
enterprises to retain their work force, despite operating at very low Ilvels of capacity. Thus,
despite the sharp decline in output during the last two years, official inemploytnent in January
1992 was only 0.5 percent, although this had doubled to 1 percent (around 19,000 workers)
by August. The relatively low level of unemployment suggests a serious problem of labor
redundancy that was only temporarily accommodated by the relatively faster pace of price
reform in Lithumina. As enterprises undergo restructu.ing and their financial situation
deteriorates, unemployment is likely to increase significantly.
Fscal and Monetary Policy
16.          Lithuania's central and general Government budgets were in deficit throughout
the late 1980s. During 1991, higher than expected profit tax revenues and reduced subsidies,
brought about by Lithuania's early price reforms, together with the discontinuation of net
transfers to the former Union budget, moved the government budget temporarily into a
surplus in 1991 of 3 percent of GDP (Table 1). Although these effects carried over into the
first quarter of 1992, fiscal pressures are expected to rise dramatically latar in 1992 and
beyond, due mainly to the negative impact of falling enterprise profits on tax revenues and the
rising expenditures on unemployment and other social benefits. The impact of the continuing
decline in output and the adverse shift in the external terms of trade on tax revenues can
already be felt. For the remainder of the year, adjustments will be necessary to both tax and
expenditure policies to achieve a budgetary balance.
17.          Despite serious monetary problems, Lithuania remained in the ruble zone and
will continue to do so until October 1, 1992. Since late 1991, deliveries of ruble bank notes
from the Soviet Gosbank (or the Russian central bank after the formal extinction of the Soviet
Gosbank in late 1991) have been highly irregular. The problems created by the scarcity of
rubles, in addition to the more general problems of remaining in an unstable currency area,
have led the Lithuanian Government to prepare plans to introduce a national currency, the
litas. Hdwever, various factors have delayed the introduction of the litas: foreign exchange
reserves are still low; the Bank of Lithuania is still not fully equipped to conduct monetary
policy effectively; and the fiscal situation remains uncertain. In addition, there has been some
concern that the introduction of the litas could aggravate the trade problems with the former
Soviet republics. As a temporary measure to ease the currency shortage, the Bank of
Lithuania began on May 1, 1992, to issue coupons representing legal tender that have been
used alongside ruble banknotes in all cash transactions within Lithuania.
18.          These coupons, or talonas, will become the sole legal tender as of October 1,
1992, prior to a stand-by program with the IMF. Tlis is a transitional step prior to the
introduction of the litas; by the time of completion of withdrawal from the ruble area, the



-6 -
Government will have determined and Implemented an exchange rate regime In consultation
with IMF staff.
Reform of the Enterprise Sector
19.          Prlvatizaon and enterprise reform have been crucial elements of the
Government's economic reform program. Very early in the transformation program, the
Government introduced an innovative scheme involving the issuing of vouchers to a"'
Lithuanian citizens which (together with a quota of additional cash) could be used to purchase
housing, a part or the whole of small enterprises sold through auctions, and shares in larger
state-owned enterprises. Procedures are being adjusted and improved to maintain the
momentum and overcome obstacles as they emerge.
20.          Considerable progress has been made in implementing various aspects of this
privatization program. Privatization of agricultural land was an early priority of the
Government, and both restitution and land sales have been carried out expeditiously. At the
same time, the Government has been moving forward with restitution claims for urban land,
proceeding as rapidly as possible, while maintaining the pri:.ciples of transparency and equity.
Privatization of state-owned housing has also been one of the principal objectives of the
govermnent's program. By early 1992, applications had been received for the privatization of
some 517,000 housing units. As of June 15, 1992, 63 percent of the total stock of state-
owned housing units had been transferred to private ownership, in most cases to the current
residents. Privatization of small business units has also progressed at a satisfactory pace. By
mid-June, 1992, 1300 units (close to 80 percent of eligible small units) had been sold through
auction, at average prices several times higher than their book value. Finally, the
privatization of large state-owned enterprises through the public offering of shares is well
underway, and 593 medium and large enterprises (around 50 percent of enterprises eligible
for privatization) included in the current phase of the privatization program now have, on
average, 68 percent of their shares in private hands. However, the Government has found
that many of the most attractive enterprises have been privatized and that the largest
enterprises (primarily in heavy industry) are proving more difficult to privatize through public
offerings. Plans are thus underway for an expansion of the privatization program to include a
variety of sales techniques and potential buyers (para 83).
21.          To improve the management of state enterprises that are not scheduled for
privatization in the immediate future, the Government has made a considerable effort to create
independent, commercially-oriented entities from previous state-owned conglomerates and
large enterprises. By early 1992, such enterprises were made formally independent of their
founding ministries, with financial autonomy. Also, the Government has submitted to
parliament a law to introduce new accounting procedures meeting internationally accepted
standards. However, continued progress in the commercialization of all enterprises that
remain state-owned will be needed to allow and ensure the survival and growth of those that
are viable in a competitive enviroanent. The Government is beginning to assess the roles of
the various actors (branch ministries, external boards of directors and internal management)
with the aim of improving enterprise performance and more effectively performing ownership
functions in areas such as rest.ucturing and liquidation, prior to the time when enterprises
enter the privatization stream.
22.          Many enterprises in Lithuania, inherited from the former Soviet regime, were
subject to heavy vertical and horizontal integration. Recognizing the negative impact on
competition that would result if such structures were to persist, the authorities have started to
take a variety of deconcentration and anti-monopoly measures. The system of central



allocation of resources with preferential access for state enterprises has been abolished. The
process of breaking up these enterprises, to facilitate the competitive practices typical of
market economies, has begun (vara 88). Large industrial 'combinats" have been broken up
into financially autonomous entides, which are beginning to seek opportuniLws for the
purchase of inputs and the sale of otvtputs outside their former organizadon. A Competition
Law, defining unfair competition and monopoly practices and Identifying penalties for this
behavior, has been submitted to parliament.
23.          The Government has taken a variety of measures to promote new private
sector activties. Since the passage of the enterprise law In May 1990, around 48,000 new
private businesses have ofiicially been registered. Most of these are micro enterprises, with
employment totaling between 50,000-100,000. They are primarily engaged in trade and such
services as catering, but also include a significant number of businesses in construction and
industry. To stimulate the further development of the small business sector, in December
1991 the Government passed a law which provides tax concessions to small enterprises and
also to financial institutions which make loans to small enterprises.
Financial Sector Reform
24.          With the adoption of a special banking resolution by parliament in October
1990, the regional branches of Soviet banks in Lithuania were nationalized, and the authorities
established the Bank of Lithuania. Resistance from the Union govermnent delayed the
liquidation of the regional branch of Gosbank until the end of 1991, when it was incorporated
into the Bank of Lithuania. Commercial banks were first introduced in 1988. Today, the
Lithuanian financial sector comprises the Bank of Lithuania, two specialized state banks (the
Savings Bank and the Agricultural Bank) and eleven operating commercial banks of which
three are private and eight are joindy owned by enterprises, individuals and the Government.
25.          Despite the organizational reforms undertaken so far, the banking system
remains very weak, and the financial situation of the state banks in particular is highly fragile.
The Savings Bank in particular, with claims of nearly Rb 7 billion on Moscow on which the
Union govermme . stopped making interest payments at the end of 1991, may be technically
insolvent and possibly illiquid. Both the commercial arm of the Bank of Lithuania, which is
in the process of being separated from its central banking part, and the Agricultural Bank are
also holding portfolios of uncertain quality, and audits are expected to reveal several branches
with sigificant negative net worth. A thorough restructuring of the banking system, as well
as substntial further progress in other areas such as prudential regulation and reform of the
accounting and payment system, is needed over a period of time to create a stable banking
system that can adequately fulfil its function of allocating capital in a market economy.
Socil Securwy System
26.          Before renewed independence in 1990, the Lithuanian social security system
was integrated in the social programs of the Soviet Union. Social security operations were
financed through the state budget and almost completely regulated by the central authorities in
Moscow. Towards the end of 1990, the Lithuanian Government started to prepare changes in
the strucmte and administration of the inherited social program,. These changes became
effective during 1991. The main objectives of the reforms have been to re-design the system
according to national preferences, shelter vulnerable groups more effectively from the most



-8 -
adverse effects of economic transition, and to introduce a clearer accounting of social
revenues and expenditures.
27.          The reforms undertaken so far have been encouraging. The introduction of
targeted unemployment benefits, the provision of family benefits directed towards the poorer
segments of the population, and the provision of essentially flat-rate price compensations for
pensioners are welcome changes which help address social concerns under tight budgetary
conditions. However, further reforms are urpently required, including in particular: (a) a
revision of the pension system, which under current proposals could easily become financially
unsustainable in the medium and long term, and (b) in view of a likely increase in
unemployment, a strengthening of employment offices and proactive labor market policies and
a provision for increasing expenditures on unemployment benefits.
H. Development Prospects and Uncertainties
A. Prospects for Stabilization and Structural Reform
28.          The prospects for the transformation and short to medium term development
of Lithuania's economy will depend heavily on four key elements of reform: (a) a rapid, but
well prepared, introduction of the new currency and continued fiscal and monetary restraint to
ensure its stability; (b) the adoption of a genuinely outward orientation in international trade,
building the basis for sustained growth of convertible currency exports that will, after a
transition period of say three to six years, begin to pay for most of Lithuania's import
requirements; (c) the adoption of a comprehensive approach towards the thorough
restructuring of the large majority of Lithuanian enterprises and of the banking system, which
in particular addresses large-scale financial losses in the enterprise sector and the resulting
liquidity and solvency problems for enterprises and banks; and (d) the completion of social
safety net reform to mitigate the social costs of adjustment, but within tight overall budgetary
constraints.
29.          The Government's reform program, which this loan is designed to support,
proposes a wide range of reform measures in all these areas. Success will depend on
continued determination, political support and the skillful implementation of the program, as
well as timely foreign assistance. The very scope of the reform program makes future
economic developments and performance uncertain, and a number of alternative scenarios
have been developed regarding the evolution of Lithuania's economic growth and external
trade and financing. However, provided the country sustains the implementation of the
economic reform program supported by this loan, the prospects for the various dimensions of
the stabilization and economic recovery program can be summarized in the following scenario
which, while anticipating continued economic problems, holds promise of improvements in
Lithuania's overall economic situation over the medium term:
*     During 1992, output is proj;ted to decline by 22 percent, leading to a
cumulative output loss of nearly 40 percent since renewed independence in
early 1990 through the end of 1992.
*     Following the introduction of the new currency, the Government is expected
to maintain a tight monetary and fiscal stance. Under its program with the
IMF, the Government would aim at bringing down the monthly rate of
inflation to low single-digit levels and achieving a balanced budget for the
remainder of 1992 and into 1993. An appropriate incomes policy would be



-9
introduced to bring about the downward adjustment in real wages that will be
necessary to adjust to the real income loss caused by the deterioration of
Lithuania's terms of trade.2
*      Privatization is assumed to continue at a fast pace. Enterprise reform and
restructuring expand further to cover the large majority of Lithuanian
enterprises, linked to a thorough financial restructuring of the banking system.
Ihe combination of sharply worsened terms of trade, cumulative output
losses, and the phasing out of financial support from the Gover. tent would
begin to force the closure of inefficient enterprises and would lead to the
restructuring of others with significant increases in unemployment. While
unemployment is projected by the Government to reach 4 to 7 percent of the
labor force within a year, it is quite likely that it would reach much higher
rates over the next year or two. The output drop will likely be largest and the
labor retrenchment the most severe in the industrial sector. Over time,
however, this process would succeed in making a growing number of
Lithuanian enterprises, including those in the industrial sectors, competitive at
international prices.
-      Output would stabilize in 1993, and a sustained recovery could begin in 1994,
with investment and incomes approaching their pre-independence levels by the
end of the decade. The initial output stabilization and recovery would
probably be driven by growth on the demand side, primarily by exports.
Sustained growth through the mid and late 1990s will depend on the
economy's supply response to the structural reform program and expanding
investments in key sectors, such as energy, transport, telecommunications, and
housing, with some selective high-priority investments in infrastructure (such
as oil refining, power supply, energy-savivg housing improvements, and
environmental investments to reduce air pollution and improve waste water
management) being initiated as soon as possible.
*      In the early and middle stages of this reform process, substantial external
assistance will be ne xled both to cushion the costs of adjustment and to
provide the resource needed to finance critical investments. Following the
general contraction o. trade flows in 1992 and 1993, exports are projected to
grow significantly in the mid and late 1990s and in the latter half of the
decade contribute the bulk of foreign exchange needed to finance Lithuania's
import requirements (para 32). While financing for investments may be
available from multilateral institutions and export credit agencies, increased
M lbe cuamulative termsof-tmde loss of moVing through pnce reform from the distorted pnce sudu  befo
idopendence to world maet prces is projected to amount to aro.d 30 to 35 peroet If most pie
adjustmets in Litiwnia's FSU trade are to be comnletd by 1993, as is expectd, the bulk of this loss has to
be botme i 1992 and 1993. The extent of the resulting real income loss is suggestive of the order of mantude
of the decline in real wages that nmght be idioated. Official retail price and nominal wage data show only a
rolativy   l roduction in real wages over the last 18 to 24 months, whicb wowl point to tho need for
_bgnntIs futher teal wage reductions. However, due to seros medological problems, the Lihuania
ail price index appaently has signifcandly unerestinatd past onmer infaion, which would indica a
somewtat mo  moderate decline in the future. The IMP and the Bank ar providing advice and asine to
he Govwnt in resohling such teohnical     and designing an incomes policy that would aim at briging
about nominal wags that are conisnt with the program's inlion arget as well as an appropriato reduetion
S. .1 fa



- 10-
domestic resource mobilization will have to meet the bulk of the needs on a
sustained basis.
B. External Trade and Balance of Payments Prospects
30.          Official Lithuanian trade and balance of payments statistics are still
rudimentary. In preparing the CEM, some preliminary trade and balance of payments
projections were constructed for 1992-93. These projections represent "work-in-progress"
and are necessarily preliminary and employ simplifying assumptions in the absence of robust
data. They are therefore subject to a wide margin of error. The main assumptions and
implications are discussed in the following paragraphs.
31.          For 1992, total exports are estimated at US$1.25 billion equivalent, of which
about three quarters are to the FSU. Three important trends are likely to dominate the
outlook for Lithuania's exports: (a) a substantial overall decline by about 25 percent during
1992 and 1993, due to both a decline in imported inputs (see below) and reduced demand in
countries of the FSU; (b) a shift in trade volumes from energy to food and light industrial
products, combined with a relative increase in the value of energy exports in value terms due
to disproportionately large price increases for energy; and (c) a medium-term re-orientation
away from the FSU toward the rest of the world. Based on Lithuania's trade agreements with
former Soviet republics and actual trade volumes and trends for the first half of 1992, it is
estimated that FSU export volumes will on average fall by 20 percent in 1992. The decline is
led by energy exports, which are projected to fall by around 50 percent, mainly due to the
limited supply of crude oil from Russia (see below) that in turn resulted in a huge decline of
exports of refined petroleum products (with the bulk of production used for domestic
consumption) and to a reduced demand for electricity from Russia. Other FSU exports,
which account for the bulk of total exports, are expected to fall during 1992 by somewhat less
than average (around 15 percent). Non-FSU exports have already fallen drastically in the first
half of 1992 and over the course of the year are projected to amount to less than half their
1991 levels. In 1993, exports as a whole are projected to stabilize and begin to recover from
their 1992 decline, consistent with the expected halt in the decline of otutput and GDP. At the
same time, the shift from FSU to non-FSU exports is assumed to continue. Thus, following
their extremely steep decline in 1992, non-FSU exports are projected to recover rapidly
beginning in 1993 with FSU trade following suit more gradually during 1993. The latter
assumes that the efforts to normalize trade relations with the FSU achieve some success.
32.          Sectors with a medium-term potential for increasing hard currency exports
include building materials and woodworking, fishing, energy (refined petroleum products and
electricity, provided the safety concerns regarding the Ignalina nuclear power station can be
addressed), transport, and tourism. (Agricultural goods and textiles, which are important
potential export products, face import constraints by western trading partners.) However, the
reorientation of exports towards the convertible currency area will not be easy and will take
time because of: (a) the continuing integration of Lithuania's trade with the republics of the
FSU and the accompanying export commitments to them; (b) the relatively low quality, by
international standards, of most Lithuanian industrial products; (c) the time and large financial
resources needed for the major capital investments that would be required to build up,
expand, or upgrade some export industries; and (d) the current lack of a supporting
framework of established trading relationships, export finance, and marketing know-how.
Thus, although convertible currency exports are likely to grow and may even show relatively
high growth rates, it will take several years until their levels become truly substantial.
Provided a consistent export-oriented reform program (icluding competitive real wages and a
realistic exchange rate), non-FSU exports could on average grow by as much as 10 to 15



- 11 -
percent annually during the mid 1990s. Absolute volumes and values could reach their pre-
Independence levels by 1995 or 1996.
33.          Its past integration with Russia has made Lithuania extremely dependent on
energy imports from the FSU. Russia will remain the only possible source of crude oil
imports until the Klaipeda port facilities have been modernized and pipelines have been
constructed for imports from other sources (or appropriate alternative arrangements have been
made such as agreements on the use of the Lavian port at Ventspils). In 1992, Russia agreed
to deliver only half of the amount of crude oil delivered in 1991, which was already
somewhat below the capacity of the Lithuanian refinery. The import volumes of coal and
natural gas are also expected to fall by one half and one third, respectively. The resulting
199 energy import volumes appear to be at (or very close to) the minimum necessary to
maintain production and output at their projected level. Consequently, to avoid fitnUer
decline of output and achieve a moderate increase in exports in 1993, energy import volumes
in 1993 are projected to decline only moderately further (by about 8 percent) from their 1992
levels in 1993, despite a near-doubling of import prices. A significantly larger decline in
import volumes would very likely imply an even steeper decline of output than projected for
the sustained reform scenario (ara 29) and may thus jeopardize the successful
Implementation of the reform program. Energy import prices have increased dramatically
during the first half of 1992, but have not yet reached world market levels. Actual prices and
tends for the first half of 1992 suggest that over the course of the year, energy import prices
will probably average slightly more than 50 percent of world market levels. As of 1993,
most energy import prices are projected to be equal to world market levels.3 As a result of
these various assumptions and estimates, the value of energy imports is projected to increase
to about US$650 million in 1992 and nearly double again to almost US$1.3 billion in 1993.
34.          Non-energy imports are projected to fail by around 35 percent in 1992, not
much less than energy imports. Due to the lack of foreign exchange, ion-energy imports
from countries other than the FSU are being hit hardest. This situation is unsustainable over
an extended period of time. A further collapse of production can be avoided and the
projected recovery of exports will be possible only if imports pick up substantially in 1993.
Non-energy imports are thus projected to rebound in 1993, offsetting somewhat more than
half of the decline during 1992. Contrary to the energy sector, some import diversification
should be possible in the non-energy sector, and staring in 1993, as the foreign exchange
shortage becomes less severe, non-energy imports from outside the FSU can be expected to
Increase, while those from the FSU will likely remain stable or even decline a bit through the
mid-1990s.
35.          This outlook for Lithuania's exports and imports translates into a highly
negative trade balance over the next two years. The trade deficit projected for 1992 amounts
to about US$255 million and that for 1993 to about US$585 million (Table 2). Although
imports are projected to fall by more than exports, the large increases in energy import prices
and the associated substantial deterioration in Lithuania's terms of trade in the course of 1992
and early 1993 will lead to a dramatic increase in import revenues. This implies very large
FSU energy trade deficits for 1992 and 1993 (around US$500 million and US$1 billion,
respectively), which far outweigh Lithuania's trade surplus with the FSU in the non-energy
sectors. As a result, Lithuania's aggregate FSU trade balance is projected to show substantial
a     Tho eeption ax coal iMport prics which are libely to adjut more gmdually, reachi wwod at
Wvels perhps in the mid-1990s. The adjustment path for coal pric depends in part on the retaufing
and commeializtion of FSU railways, as a subsantial paut of the conumer price of coal is ransport costs
for rail sipmet



- 12 -
deficits. Lithuania's non-FSU trade is also projected to be in deficit, but by much smaller
amounts.
36.          The above projections, including for Lithuania's trade with the FSU, were
made In US dollar terms. However, during the first half of 1992, actual FSU deliveries were
paid in rubles at prices negotiated between the relevant governments (for the portion of trade
that was still under the state order system) and/or between the companies participating in each
transaction. Such ruble trade has been converted into US dollar at the market exchange rate,
taking into account the fact that, at this rate, many of the relevant ruble prices were below
world market prices. The projections in Table 2 assume that most export and import prices
will shift to world market levels in 1993. To the extent that trade should continue at prices
below world market levels (including the possibility of trade nominally being conducted in US
dollar at world market prices, but converted into rubles (or into the new currency, upon its
introduction) at an (implicit) exchange rate below the market rate, the trade deficits could be
lower than projected.
37.          Net income from non-factor services (mainly transport and travel) is projected
to be positive, but small compared to the trade deficit. Interest earned and interest due are
both marginal, due to the small size of Lithuania's foreign exchange reserves on the one hand
and its external debt on the other. Thus, Lithuania's trade deficit translates nearly direcdy
into a similar current account deficit, of US$205 million in 1992 and US$515 million in 1993.
C. Major Uncertainties
38.          The Government has already made very substantial progress in carrying out its
reform program. However, risks do exist in the areas of political and policy slippage,
implementation capacity, Lithuania's external economic environment, and resource
availability.
39.          Political and Policy Slippage. A new government, led by Prime Minister
Abisala, has been elected to remain in place until the next parliamentary elections currendy
scheduled for October 25, 1992. After several weeks of a complete political deadlock in
parliament, the formation of the new government, which appears committed to continue the
general reform course of the previous government, improves the prospects for the adoption of
crucial reform measures. However, the outcome of the coming general elections is uncertain,
and much will depend on the composition and political support of the government elected
then.
40.          In the short to medium term, there is a risk of slower-than-expected
implementation of a number of stabilization and strucural reform measures. The program of
economic policy reform that the Government has laid out in its Memorandwn on Economic
Reform Policies (Annex 3) is complex. Demanding implementation and political problems are
likely to arise, particularly in the areas of greatest social sensitivity: introduction of an
incomes policy designed to lower real wages; the imposition of strict financial discipline on
enterprises; and tight credit and fiscal policies which will constrain the size of the social
safety net despite increasing numbers of unemployed and poor.



| '     l--  s    inq  -  _eR-  I      '0  _   X     |i     i
A.|iR                a    5-      n9_         n-. tiiitj4
niSlul~ ~~~~~~~- 1Ji~ 1.]l
As     -E5X5ai   X                  ]l{g]ilgtiiis 



- 14-
41.          In the short term, the reform program will require further sacrifices from the
population. The projected output decline of 22 percent in 1992, for a total of close to 40
percent since independence, combined with rising unemployment and the necessary wage
restraints, will translate into dramatic reductions of household consumption. In the long term,
even if the recovery in growth in the mid and late 1990s should be reasonably fast (e.g., real
output growth of around 5 percent per annum), which is by no means certain, Lithuania
would not reach its pre-independence level of income before the end of the decade.
42.          Under these circumstances, it appears quite possible that an alternative
scenario to the sustained reform scenario that was laid out above (paras 28-29) could unfold:
Political instability and growing social pressures could delay and weaken necessary
stabilization and structural reform measures. Macroeconomic policies could loosen, inflation
could become a chronic phenomenon even under the new currency, and without the necessary
financial discipline, many state enterprises could manage to survive unrestructured for a long
time, while the domestic and foreign demand for their output keeps shrinking. Many
traditional exports may not recover, and new export industries may develop only late and
slowly. Output would continue to fall and could stagnate. Increasing public discontent,
creating the risk of social unrest, would make decisive political actions and economic
stabilization and reform even more difficult. In these circumstances, the costs of structural
adjustment, if and when it were to come, would turn out to be a multiple of what they might
have been under the scenario of sustained reform.
43.          Implementation Capacfty. As a small country that operated under the Soviet
system for the past two generations, Lithuania has only a limited number of people at present
with the training and experience needed to implement the program of economic reforms.
While Lithuania is one of the most developed countries of the FSU and its government has a
relatively stronger implementation capacity, the institutional and human capital base is limited
and the task of economic transformation is large. The timely and effective implementation of
the structural and sectoral reform program will require a substantial strengthening of
institutional capacities. Four important concerns relate to: (a) the general ability of the
administrative and legal system to implement laws and regulations and supervise their
enforcement through the court system; (b) the adoption of international standards and
practices in such activities as bank supervision and regulation, accounting, and auditing,
procurement, etc.; (c) the management of public expenditures; and (d) the quantity and quality
of statistical information and economic projections. Improvements in these areas will be
critical for a successful implementation of the program.
44.          The Bank has made special efforts in the context of this initial operation in
Lithuania to ensure that a substantial program of technical assistance would be implemented in
several key areas of structural reform. This assistance is designed to strengthen institutional
and related implementation capacities. The IMF and other multilateral institutions and
bilateral donors are also providing a wide range of technical assistance.
45.          Exernal Environment. In addition to policy and implementation risks,
Lithuania also faces challenges over which it has limited control, including in particular its
external economic environment and the availability of adequate external financial assistance.
The extent and pace of political and economic stabilization within the FSU will be of prime
importance to a normalization of Lithuania's FSU trade and thus its overall economic



- 1S-
recovery. While some import and export diversification will be possible and can be expected
over the medium term, the experience in Lithuania thus far and that of other Central and
Eastern European economies in transition (which were even less closely integrated with the
Soviet economy than Lithuania) indicates that this will inevitably be a long-term process.
Lithuania will continue to depend on critical inputs from the FSU as well as FSU markets for
its export, and workable trade and payments arrangements will be crucial for these trade flows
to materialize. The present continuing political tensions and economic decline in many FSU
countries suggest that the risk of drawn-out instability and only gradual normalization in the
FSU Is not insignificant.
46.          Resource Avallabiity. With a projected current account deficit of around
US$740 million (about 12 percent of GDP) for the two-year period 1992-93, Lithuania faces a
major, though not impossible, resource mobilization task. In large part because of the
program of policy reform that the Government has announced and started to implement, the
country enjoys broad support in:the donor community for this effort, and prospects are
reasonably good for closing the financing gap. An important issue is the financing of the
trade deficit with Russia. As shown in Table 2 above, merchandise trade with the FSU for
1992-93 is projected to be in deficit by about US$670 million. The issue of matching
available external financing to this particular structure of financing requirements is discussed
in detail in paras 56-63 below. Although the reform program may still be feasible even if
there are minor delays and shortfalls in mobilizing the resources, it is important that, to the
extent possible, every effort is made to secure them so as not to endanger unduly the
program's success.
m. Exterl flnancing and Creditworthiness
A. hancing Requirements
47.          During 1992 and 1993, Lithuania will need to mobilize substantial amounts of
externa resources to finance the current account deficits that will be associated with the
Imports needed to stem the ongoing decline of the Lithuanian economy. As mentioned above,
these requirements are, to a large degree, the result of the drastic increase in the prices of
Lithuania's energy imports from Russia. In addition, Lithuania will need to build external
reserves at least to the levels required to cover modest trade fluctuations and begin servicing
the nation's emerging external debt. Its gross external financing requirements for these
purposes are projected at around US$955 million for the two-year period 1992-93, or around
US$480 million annually (Table 3). Lithuania's non-interest current account deficits amount
to around US$700 million, or about three quarters of this total.
48.          Provided continued adjustment and a relatively rapid increase in convertible
currency exports on the basis of a successful implementation of the Government's reform
program (described in Part IV of this report), Lithuania's current account deficit and resulting
financing requirements are likely to start falling significantly in the mid-1990s, while
remaing substantial through 1994 and probably 1995.
B. Sources of Fnancing
49.          In the short term, Lithuania's access to private foreign capital will be limited.
Lithuania has recognized the importance of attracting private foreign investment, not only in



- 16 -
providing fresh capital for new productive enterprises, but also in contributing to the success
of the enterprise reform and privatization program and providing access to new technology
and markets. Foreign investment is regulated by a foreign investment law which provides the
usual elements of protection to foreign Investors and offers tax incentives to attract foreign
capital. Most restrictions on foreign private investment have now been removed, and
amendments have been passed that simplify reporting and registration procedures, allow 100
percent foreign ownership of enterprises, and extend land leases to 99 yeaws. From
independence until now, the country has attracted relatively modest but important amounts of
foreign investment (about US$120 million have been committed in 550 joint ventures and 150
subsidiaries as of April 1992). Actual capital inflows from foreign investment are currendy
projected at around US$30 million in 1992 and US$50 million in 1993 (Table 3). Major
inflows of foreign investment are not likely to occur without stability in the ruble zone, or
until Lithuania has established its own currency and can demonstrate a credible degree of
macroeconomic stability. Significant increases will also depend on improvements in
communications, ancillary business services, and access to critical inputs including urban real
estate.
50.           Commercial banks as a rule do not provide financing without official cover
from export credit agencies. In principle, banks would be prepared to provide covered
financing for both short- and medium-term credits. As of now, however, only a few banks
provide some small amounts of covered credits under short-term trade lines. There is also
anecdotal evidence suggesting that explorations have begun to secure commercial financing
under medium-term official cover for one or two larger investment projects, but reliable data
are not available.
51.           There is some interest among export credit agencies, especially those from
Scandinavia, about opening business with Lithuania and the other Baltic countries. So far,
trade credit facilities have been or are being estrblished for Lithuania by Canada, Denmark,
and Germany; others are anticipated. However, business is likely to focus primarily on
small-scale short-term credits for some time. Cover for commercial medium-term credits will
depend, as a minimum, on the adoption of a stabilization program with the IMF and a full
state guarantee. In addition, most export credit agencies will provide commercial medium-
and long-term cover only after significant progress with structural adjustment and clear
evidence of creditworthiness in the form of sufficient foreign exchange earnings capacity.4
As of mid-1992, several major export credit agencies were still in the process of closely
reviewing political and economic developments in Lithuania and had not yet opened cover.
52.           Apart from the solution of technical issues (such as the identification of
credible borrowing/guarantee institutions and procedures), a strong commitment and
performance under the Government's current reform program supported by the Bank and the
IMF will therefore be a prerequisite for enabling export credit agencies to meet a significant
share of Lithuania's financing requirements with commercial bilateral credits. However, even
under the best of circumstances, the mobilization of commercial biatera credits will take
some time, and substantial disbursements cannot be expected much before tfie middle of 1993.
I/  An ;  project prposal for a DM 250 million (about US$160 million) hoxd proct baa been aubitted to the
Genmn expolt crodit agency, Hemn, for review by external accou_tats and auditors. If the project
ps   as planned, preparetions could be compleed and the fmaning sorod during 1993, with Henam
_uareed loan diabsuwm  sfing teeaftr.



- 17 -
Table 3: Provitonal Finaing Plan, 1992-1993
(US$ million)
1992        1993         Total
Projcted    Projected    Projected
Flnancg Requlremeats                                          280          67S         9S5
Curren Account Deftcit                                   200          S00          700
(excI. interest due and official trUnsfers)
Debt Service a/                                           15           25           40
Amoltization                                            10           10          20
Interet                                                  S           15          25
rss Rerve Increase b/cl                                   65          IS0          215
igianc'ng Sources                                            280          675          955
Prvat Capital (net)                                       50           SO          100
Direct Foreign Investnat                                25           S0           75
Other d/                                                25            0           25
Offtici apital                                           135          570          705
Offtcial Transfer, (Grants)                             35          IS0          185
Medium- and Long-Tenm Loan Disbwements (grow)          100          420          520
Multilatera                                          S0           70          120
Bilarl (including ECAs) and EC                       50          350         400
Net Purchses fro  IMF b/                                  25           55           s0
Retum of Gold cJ                                          70            0           70
Memo Item: Greon Reserves (level at year-end)
in US$ million                                           125          275
in months of impots                                       1.1          1.2
a/  Includes ptojected debt service payments on: (i) exising debt of Litanian enterprises as acklowledged by the
Governmt (Tabk 4); and (-d) provisionally projected new bonowing from the IMF, World Bank, EBRD, NIB,
and bilatel soues and the EC.
b/  Based on an lexpectedl I 1-month IMP stand-by program at a rate of annual acce of 90 percent of quota, with
puchases fully disbursed into reserves.
Ce   During 1992, the British, French, and Swedish govemments  rurned gold that Lituania had in their countries
befom Wodd War n1. While Brtain and Franco retumd the gold in kind (about US$55 mtillon), Sweden
provided  stion in form of foetign exchange (DM 21 million, equivalent to about US$15 million).
dl  Reatriation of eprinse foreign exchange deposit in banks abroad during the fist half of 1992.
Srce Liwanian authorities and Bank staff estmates.
53.              In the short term, given the limited amounts of private foreign capital that will
be available to finance Lithuania's current account deficits, official disbursements in the form
of grants or loans from multilateral and bilateral sources will have to be the main source of
external financing. Table 3 shows that the total official financing (imcluding IMF resources
that are disbursed into reserves) projected to meet Lithuania's financing requirements for the
remainder of 1992 and for 1993 amounts to about US$705 million (US$135 mfllion in 1992
and US$570 million in 1993). Of this amount, about US$120 million of loan disbursements
are projected to be available from multilateral institutions (World Bank, EBRD, and NIB). A



- 18-
balance of about US$585 million would need to come as grants and loan disbursements from
bilateral sources, including the European Community.
54.          Although Lithuania's external debt is still minimal (paras 64-65), it will be
important that a large portion of official bilateral financing be provided on a concessional
basis, or as grants, to prevent an excessive debt and debt service burden in the medium and
lkng term. For the projections in Table 3 it has been assumed that, of the residual financing
requirements after private and multilateral contributions (as well as net purchases from the
IMF have been taken into account), one half is met by grants and the other by bilateral loan
disbursements. Even in this scenario, while the level of external debt as measured by the
usual debt and debt service ratios would remain clearly manageable (paras 66-67), Lithuania
would build up new debt relatively quicldy. Assuming, however, that the already high
projected amounts of grants (or highly concessional financing) cannot be increased further
than indicated in Table 3, the only alternative to building up external debt would be an even
greater reduction of imports. This would have severe repercussions on the nation's economic
prospects.
55.          Aid coordination will need to play a vital role in securing the funds needed to
meet Lithuania's financing requirements and thereby assuring the success of the Government's
reform program, which they support. The staff of the Bank and the IMP have been working
closely for several months towards this objective by: (a) providing analytical work regarding
financing requirements and possible sources of financing for private and official sources;
@b) preparing briefing notes and background notes; (c) contacting representatives of potential
donor countries; and (d) participating within the G24 framework for the coordination of
assistance to the Baltic countries, which is chaired by the EC and involves participation of
other international financial institutions; and (e) developing a framework for identifying
investment priorities and participating in the coordination of technical assistance.
C. Matching Financing Requirements and Sources
56.          Resources provided from both private and official sources are usually not
completely fungible, but tied to certain uses. In designing an extemrnal financing package, it is
therefore important to match external financial assistance funds and the uses for which they
are available with Lithuania's financing requirements in two main respects. First, external
financing may be tied to imports from a particular country or region, which creat  a need to
match available external resources with Lithuania's trade patterns and in particular to identify
appropriate sources of foreign exchange for financing its large trade deficit with the FSU.
Second, Lithuania will require external financing not only in the form of balance of payments
support for general imports, but also for specific investment projects and for technical
assistance, and part of the external financial assistance from official donors and creditors will
be for those purposes; similarly, the bulk of private financing will be protect or product
specific. Available funds should match Lithuania's requirements for all three types of
external financing.
Matching by Geographical Origin of Imports
57.          Lithuania's external financing needs are complicated by the fact that more than
three fourths of its gross financing requirements for 1992 and 1993 arise from trade deficits
with FSU countries, particularly Russia. However, virtually all of the projected sources of



- 19-
external assistance that have been identified for Lithuania are from convertible currency
sources outside the FSU. A significant portion of these funds, especially those from official
sources, may be tied. To the extent that they cannot be used to finance FSU imports and the
associated trade deficits, Lithuania's convertible currency export earnings will have to be the
primary source of financing these deficits.
58.            As shown in Table 2 above. Lithuania's non-FSU exports are projected to
total about US$480 million for 1992-93, and another US$120 million is expected from net
service exports and private transfers.' These amounts of foreign exchange, in total about
US$600 million, would in principle be available to cover FSU trade deficits even if other
funds are potentially tied. For the same period, the total FSU trade deficit is estimated at
about US$670 million. This means that Lithuania's total hard currency export earnings for
these two years would not quite suffice to cover the trade deficits with the FSU, with the
projected shortfall being about US$70 million. In fact, the shortfall of non-FSU export
earnings (plus private transfers) compared to the FSU trade deficit may well be larger than the
projected US$70 million. Not only are all balance of payments and external financing
projections subject to a large margin of error, but furthermore, part of Lithuania's non-FSU
export earnings may have been used already since the beginning of 1992 to finance non-FSU
imports. In addition, the amount of foreign exchange actually available to cover FSU trade
deficits could be smaller if part of Lithuania's non-FSU exports should take place through
barter or bilateral payments arrangements (despite the adverse impact of such restrictions on
the flexibility of Lithuania's international trade and its foreign exchange management).
59.            To the extent that Lithuania's projected non-FSU export earnings (plus private
twansfers) during the remainder of 1992 and in 1993 fall short of its FSU trade deficits during
that period, some official capital inflows, including from bilateral sources, will be needed to
finance imports from the FSU.6 It is therefore critical that as much as possible of the official
external financing that is made available to Lithuania is untied and available to pay for FSU
imports. While the bulk of official bilateral financing is usually tied, Lithuania's special
situation - being dependent on importe from the FSU to an exceptionally high degree even
compared with other countries of the FSU or the CMEA, and facing a difficult transition
period after an already extremely steep decline in imports and output so far - could justify
making a substantial portion of s.ch financing available on an untied basis. In addition, to the
extent that a portion of official bilateral financing is tied to non-FSU imports, it is important
that it be consistent with the level and structure of those imports, which is implicitly assumed
to be the case in the scenario shown in Tables 2 and 3. If official transfers and loans from
i/  Sices and pvate usfers are ted on a net basis in the absenco of more detailed infonmaton resuoing
their coiposion. Thu, gross free foreign exchange from exports of goods and services plus pmivat tansfer
mt  be somewhat higher.
/  Other fuancing sources are neady all tied otierwise: foreign diroct investaent is linked to p9clhases frm
ousde the FSU; and the international resrve targets of the Govamnents' econonue progmm with the
Internaonal Monetary Fund assume the use of purchases ftom the wIM  and the retrned gold (except the
US$15 million in foign exhango paid by Sweden in restdition for Lithuania's gold reves held thern befomi
World War U) for an increase in reseves. This means that the only fonns of capital account financing other
thn official grans and loans that could potenially be made available for financing FSU tmde deficits are 'other
private capital flows," which correpon to foreign exchange dqoits of entesprises in banbrad that were
rpated and whose use for financing FSU imports appeas quetionable at best, plu the funds paid by
Sweden in lieu of gold. Tbis amounts to at most US$40 million in 1992, prbably less, and 0 in 1993.



-20-
bilateral sources cannot be used to finance FSU imports, or if they are tied to specific non-
FSU sources and products in ways that would make it impossible to cover the non-FSU
imports that Lithuania must finance with official capital inflows, the scenario shown in Tables
2 and 3 may no longer be viable. In that case, Lithuania will be forced to (a) purchase goods
that are less suitable to its present needs, (b) purchase goods at higher prices, and/or
(c) accept further compression of imports, output, and incomes.
60.           Given the dominant influence of Lithuania's imports from the FSU on its trade
and current account balance, the need to match financing to the FSU trading patterns poses a
critical challenge for Lithuania's external aid coordination and internal foreign exchange
management. This highlights the need for a well-managed aid coordination process and
highlights the importance of the foreign aid and external debt units which the Government is
establishing as part of its economic reform program (para 103).
Matching by lype of End Use
61.           Lithuania's greatest present need is for direct balance of payments support. If
all external financing during the 1992-93 period could be obtained as straight balance of
payments support (program aid), this would give Lithuania maximum flexibility in managing
its foreign exchange flows which, as noted above, will be difficult because of constraints
regarding the countries and markets in which various aid flows can be used. The proposed
World Bank Rehabilitation Loan, while targeted at imports for three broadly defined sectors,
can be reallocated for other high priority imports, the only exception being the standard
"negative list" that includes products such as weapons, tobacco and i1cohol. The Bank will
also encourage donors to provide as much assistance as possible in the form of unrestricted
balance of payments support during the initial transition period.
62.           As the initial s:abilization phase passes, well-designed project support will
become increasingly important. In the short term, the Government's highest priorities lie with
obtaining the imports needed to stabilize the economy, and with divesting itself of a major
share of the past public sector investments in industrial enterprises, shops, and housing. It
must also preserve its fiscal resources to provide adequate unemployment insurance and other
social benefits for the rising number of unemployed and poor during the process of enterprise
reform. Nevertheless, some project financing will almost certainly be needed early on to
support a few top-priority infrastructure investments, with the initial focus being primarily on
maintaining and modernizing existing facilities rather than establishing major new ones.
Within the next year or two, the Government can then launch a carefully targeted public
investment program that addresses the serious under-investment in public services during the
past few years.7 In any event, foreign investments will generally be implemented over
several years, and prt of the funds will be used to pay for importing incremental capital and
intermediate goods required specifically for the investments in question. Their direct
contribution to the balance of payments in the short and medium term will thus be limited,
although they can provide a major impetus to Lithuania's economic development and to its
export earnings in the longer term.
7/  Whil some project financing could in principle be used on a ulager scale for tho restturing of public
disprises for privatization, it would geally be better to subtra the plamed stmucturing costs from the
esimated pice and let dh now prvate sector owner(s) handl e  nctuming. This would provde
appropriate incatives to the new inmst and also ftre resouroes for presi needs in other ara.



-21 -
63.           As noted above, Lithuania will need substantial amounts of technical
assistance from abroad during the next few years. Its main value is in providing additional
human resources, initiating and facilitating the adoption of new technologies and
administrative and technical know-how that are scarce in Lithuania, and in thereby supporting
the implementation of the reform program and generally accelerating the process of
Lithuania's economic transformation into a market economy. Technical assistance funds have
not been included in the balance of payments in Table 2, and related financing requirements
would be in addition to those shown in Table 3.8 Donor support for technical assistance is
being sought actively (e.g. the technical assistance that the government of Sweden has agreed
to supply in support of the present Rehabilitation Loan).
D. External Debt and Debt Service
64.           With the dissolution of the FSU, the allocation and settlement of its external
assets and liabilities has become an important issue that could affect the future access of the
newly independent countries to both official and private foreign canital. Lithuania recognizes
only the external debt of Lithuanian enterprises (including the debts of former all-Union
enterprises situated in Lithuania) for the provision of goods and services in Lithuania. The
Lithuanian authorities estimate that about US$36 million of such debt was outstanding at the
end of 1991 and report that this debt is being serviced on schedule (Table 4); but the available
information is incomplete, and details about the composition of the debt by the original
foreign creditors of the loans, their purpose, and their amortization scheduled are not known.
The Government takes the view that Lithuania, not being a legal successor to the FSU, bears
no responsibility for any other debts incurred by the FSU, although Russia has asked
Lithuania to acknowledge and take responsibility for foreign debt somewhat in excess of US$1
billion. Without pre-judging the ultimate outcome of any negotiations on this matter, there
are indications that the Lithuanian position seems to be gaining international acceptance.
65.           Since gaining renewed independence in March 1990, Lithuania has undertaken
only negligible new debt obligations. However, the Government, state enterprises, and the
private sector, will all soon have increasing access to foreign credits, starting with loans from
multilateral institutions and the establishment of short-term cred-t lines with export credit
agencies. The Govermment has set up a new unit in the Ministry of Finance in charge of
monitoring, recording, reporting and inanaging external debt and new borrowing.
E. Creditworthiness
66.           Having only recently regained independence and having no credit record,
while being faced with the daunting task to reform its entire economy, Lithuania will need
some time to establish full creditworthiness. The projections for the sustained reform scenario
shown in Tables 2 and 3 abovre imply current account deficits of about 9 percent of GDP in
1992 and 15 percent of GDP in 1993, about two thirds of which would be financed by taking
on new debt. Nevertheless, Lithuania's debt and debt service ratio would stay within prudent
/  Gnerally, ethr techmal asstanc, flows Lie outside t balance of paymens accoun (for example, lries
paid in Sweden to a Swedish consltant in Swedish mona would not entr ito Lithuania's balanc of paymeds,
even thugh the conwltant wocs in Linhuania and the funds used to pay his salay wold be counted officialy
a aid to Lithlani); or funds are disbursed for incremental purchase of goods and seices that would not
orw0is have been impored, such as prooct-speciflc equipmet or consultant services, in which case
Litwania's cue and capital accout balne would increase by the sam amount.



-22 -
bounds, even in the medium term, if the following materialize: (a) the current account
deficits can be brought back down to below 4 to 5 percent of GDP by the mid 1990s, which a
beginning economic recovery on the basis of a successful implementation of the Government's
reform program should help to ensure; and (b) around one-half of bilateral financing continues
to be in the form of grants until then. Under these circumstances, outstanding debt could stay
below 20 percent of GDP and total debt service amount to less than 10 percent of total
exports or less than 20 percent of non-FSU exports into the late 1990s. Lithuania's level of
debt In this scenario would be small compared to that of highly indebted countries and by the
usual creditworthiness criteria clearly remain manageable. Nevertheless, it would not be
insignificant and, in a downside scenario, could make Lithuania a moderately indebted
country by the beginning of the next decade.
67.         In view of the considerable uncertainty that surrounds balance of payments
projections today for any country of the FSU, the Bank will continue to monitor closely the
evolution of Lithuania's debt, and will seek to assure through aid coordination activities that
as much of the foreign assistance to Lithuania as possible will be either on highly concessional
terms or on a grant basis. On this basis, Lithuania is at present creditworthy for the levels of
lending proposed in the above financing plan.
IV. The Government's Economic Reform Prograim
68.          Faced with the many economic challenges outlined above, the Government of
Lithuania has developed a program of economic stabilization, adjustment, and structural
reform for the next 18 months in cooperation with the Bank and the IMF. The Government's
commitments with regard to both stabilization and structural reform are contained in the
Memorandum on Economkc Reform which is attached to this Report as Annex 3. The
following paragraphs describe the key elements of the overall program and their rationale.
A. The Stabilization Program
69.          Objectives of the Government's stabilization program for 1992 include:
(a) completing the process of price and wage liberalization; (O) maintaining sound fiscal
policies and a balanced budget; (c) establishing a stable monetary policy with the introduction
of the new currency; and (d) maintaining control of external financial and trade balances.
Prices and Wages
70.          Although most prices have been decontrolled, the Government is proceeding
quicldy to eliminate as many of the remaining price subsidies as possible, both to reduce
strains on the budget and to provide correct price incentives to households and enterprises.
Price controls have been removed on all goods and services except for energy products, and a
small number of other items (primarily rents and other municipal services, utility services,
communications, transportation, tobacco, and alcohol) where continuing regulation can be
justified on the basis of monopolistic conditions or social grounds. Minimum support levels
were still in effect for the producer prices of a few agricultural goods in early 1992, but have
been removed since. Agricultural subsidies will be limited to amounts that do not place a
large burden on the government budget.



- 23 -
Table 4: LIthuania's External Dcit, End 1991
CKei&or             Guarantor       Amowt          Find         Amoaon lmorlza*ion
(,fu*on at                          OaUs"ding      Matzwiy      Du In 1992 a!      Due in 1993 a!
proded loan                          End 1991
to enerprdu)                         IS$ tiousands)             (USS touands)    (USS thousds)
Foeign Econmio      Relevant           14132           1994          7750               3177
Relation and         Ministry of
Foregn Trade        the PSU
Banks of the
PSU
Govennwat of      4903            1994          1695               1695
Lithuania
Lithuanian         280        05/10/92           280                  0
Association
Durpes
ithuanian Bank       Lithuanan          500         11/30/93          286                214
for Foreign          Plaing
Economrio           Conunittee
Relations
Govenument of       68            1992            68                  0
Lithuania
Poreign Banks        Govenment of     14800            2003          1233               1233
Lithuania
Minsty of          1020       07/25/93           615                405
Economics
TOTAL                                 35703                         11927               6724
al    In the absence of infomation about actal repaym    schedules, amootiton payment due in 1992 and 1993
an estimated by assuming that, for each loan, amotizaton payment are spread unifonrmy over the reaining
repayment period. St is further assumed that any outstanding aous on loans xwith an original fuial mat
date before 1992 ae paid in full during 1992.
: Ministry of Economy and Bank staff esmates.
71.             The question of prices in the energy sector is particularly important given the
potetially unsustainable budgetary costs with existing subsidies, the importance of energy as
a crucial input into nearly all production processes, and the current high energy intensity of
Lithuania's economy with the concomitant need to encourage energy conservation. For those
products moving toward market determined prices, consumer prices are being adjusted (and
will continue to be adjusted as needed) to cover the full costs of production, import (moving
to international prices), and distribution, plus depreciation anu a reasonable profit margin. By
early in 1993, the prices for these products will be filly liberalized. The prices of gas, heat,
and electricity (natural monopolies) continue to be regulated, but they are being adjusted (and
will continue to be adjusted as needed) so that, on average over different groups of users and
times of day, they fully cover costs. Early in 1993, a program will be adopted for installing
utility meters which will facilitate the subsequent phasing out of remaining subsidies on the
household use of energy.



-24-
Incomes Policy
72.          The Government is committed to the liberalization of wages and has legalized
collective bargaining at enterprises that are not financed directly from the budget.
Nevertheless, given that the adverse shift in the external terms of trade implies an unavoidable
loss of purchasing power for the country as a whole, and that Lithuania has been experiencing
a wage and price spiral that the authorities want to bring down sharply, the Government is
also of the view that the success of its stabilization efforts hinges critically on the introduction
of a temporary incomes policy. Key elements of this policy include a wage freeze for
September and October, 1992, and the introduction of wage guidelines thereafter. Under
these guidelines, state enterprises and budgetary organizations will be asked to keep average
wage increases during specified periods below certain uniform ceilings. The ceilings will be
established on the basis of changes in the consumer price index, Lithuania's loss in real
purchasing power resulting from the deterioration of its terms of trade, and the target path for
inflation under the program.
Fiscal Policy
73.          The Government recognizes that further fiscal restraint is central to the
success of the stabilization and reform program. A combination of changes in government
spending and tax policies are proposed to keep the general government budget in balance for
the remainder of 1992. The Government will also continue to aim at balance in the general
government budget during the first half of 1993. Civil service staffing and remuneration
policy will be reviewed early in 1993 with a view to developing a program and timetable for
eliminating jobs that are no longer necessary in institutions financed from the general
government budget. Net credit from the banking system to the general government will be
confined to smoothing seasonal shortfalls in budgetary revenues relative to expenditures. In
the medium term, the Government intends to introduce structural fiscal reforms aimed at
keeping the evolution of public expenditures in line with the evolution of tax revenues plus
non-inflationary (non-bank) financing. The main objectives are to strengthen tax policy and
administration to make the tax system more elastic and efficient as well as public expenditure
management and budgetary control (budget planning, formulation and execution) to improve
the management of public resources. Recognizing that local authorities must be able to plan
investments and other expenditures on the basis of projected revenues, the Government will
finalize rules specifying the shares of various tax revenues to be allocated to local authorities.
Cwrency Reforn and Monetary Policy
74.          The introduction of the new currency, is necessary for the stabilization of
Lithuania's economy and the successful implementation of the Government's reform program.
The Government and the Bank of Lithuania intend to implement currency reform prior to the
requested financial assistance program, in close consultation with the staff of the IMF.
However, the need to act quickly has led the Government to implement this reform in two
stages. From October 1, 1992 the coupons (talonas) now circulating with the ruble will be
made the sole legal tender in Lithuania. This is a transitional step prior to the introduction of
the litas, which will take place at an appropriate time in consultation with the IMF staff.
Since a two-tier banking system Is essential for the successful introduction of the new
currency and effective monetary policy, the Government has taken actions to separate the
commercial banking operations from the Bank of Lithuania, and to ensure that the new



- 25 S
organizational structure of the central bank will perform its monetary policy and prudential
supervision functions effectively.
75.          Monetary policy will be formulated with a view to providing domr.estic credit
at a rate that Is consistent with expected economic activity and a target path for inflation,
which should fal well Into single digits by December 1992, and to less than 3 percent per
month in the first quarter of 1993. A refinancing facility wIll be established to enable the
Bank of Lithuania to provide credit to individual banks, with the interest rate for refinancing
credit being determined by auction. A second facility, through which banks could borrow to
meet their reserve requirements at a relatively high level, will also be introduced. The
Government's medium-term objective is to make interest rates the main instruments of
allocating financial resources in the economy. The liberalization of interest rates of
commercial and state-owned banks will be completed, although the central bank will remain
watchful of the spread between lending and deposit rates and exercise prudential supervision
to discourage banks from excessive risk taking. To facilitate the eventual transition to indirect
monetary control, during the first half of 1993 the authorities plan to seek technical assistance
from the IMP or other sources to develop a market in government securities.
Fxernal Policy
76.          The removal of exchange and trade restrictions is a central part of the
Government's strategy for introducing a rational structure of relative prices, alleviating supply
bottlenecks, and exposing domestic producers to import competition while strengthening their
export orientation. By the time of completion of withdrawal from the ruble area (October 1,
1992), the authorities will have determined and implemented an exchange rate regime in
consultation with IMP staff. Furthermore, by October 1, 1992, prudential monitoring and
standards for the foreign currency exposure of domestic banks will be established.
77.          The Government intends to conduct Lithuania's international economic
relations on a non-discriminatory basis in line with multilateral trading principles prevailing in
the world economy. The authorities recognize the need for continued close economic
relations with former Soviet states, and are committed to removing remaining FSU trade
barriers, promoting direct trading between enterprises and reducing the direct involvement of
the Government in trade relations. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are being sharply
limited.
78.          Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia have formed a Baltic Customs Union and are
preparing a plan for its implementation. In this context, it will be important that Lithuania
adopt a consistent, integrated approach towards trade policy. Over the medium term,
Lithuania intends to develop, in coordination with its customs union and other trading
partners, a rational tariff structure with low and relatively uniform import tariff rates, in
accordance with internationally accepted principles.
79.          The Government intends to remove all quotas and licensing requirements for
exports before the end of 1992, except those for certain energy products and timber of local
origin. All remaining quantitative restrictions, except those on exports of products subject to
foreign import controls or administered prices, will be removed by the beginning of 1993,
unless the restrictions are deemed by the Government to be necessary for reasons of security
or health. For the limited number of products that require export restrictions in association



- 26 -
with controls on domestic prices, export taxes will be imposed instead of quotas wherever
possible.
B. Structural Reforms
80.          Objectives of Government's structural reform program for 1992 include
further progress in (a) enterprise reform, encompassing privatization of state-owned
enterprises and improved management of those that remain in state hands; (b) the introduction
of pro-competition policies, including breaking up monopolistic and other non-competitive
forms of organization, designing and putting into place anti-trust mechanisms, streamlining
exit policies and facilitating new prlvate sector activities; (c) restructuring the financial
system; (d) establishing an effective system of social assistance, including a comprehensive
pension teform plan, a system of unemployment benefits and a basic package of social
assistance; and (e) ensuring that capable institutions are in place to guide and monitor the
reform process (see Box - Swnmary of the Systemk Reform Program on following pages).
Enterprise Reform
81.          Privatizatlon. Rapid privatization of the vast majority of enterprises is an
integral part of the Government's policy to transform the Lithuanian economy into a market
based system. Substantial progress has been made in designing and successfully implementing
an ambitious privatization program, which covers housing and land as well as small and large
enterprises.
82.          Having already privatized a substantial amount of agricultural land and
removed most restrictions on the sale and resale of non-agricultural land, the Government
intends to remove essentially all remaining restrictions after the introduction of the new
currency.
83.          In view of the success of the program of privatization sales of small
enterprises through auctions, the stock of units to be sold by auction has been expanded by
raising the maximum value of enterprises that can be auctioned, and through the ongoing
break-up of larger enterprises. While auction sales have been constrained by restrictions
placed on the amount of vouchers and cash which citizens can use in auctions, the
Government has lifted such limitations for enterprises that could not be sold in a frst auction,
and intends to remove all cash quota restrictions as soon as the new currency is introduced.
The Government intends to complete the privatization of all small enterprises currently
scheduled for privatization by the end of 1992.
84.          The authorities are finding that there is limited demand for shares in some of
the larger enterprises, particularly those which were formerly "all-union* enterprises relying
on inputs and markets in the FSU. Initiatives to address this problem include: (a) the
systematic break-up, where feasible, of the larger enterprises into smaller units which are
easier to sell; (b) easing of most restrictions on privatization to foreign investors in June
1992, except for a small list of reserved activities (such as weapons production or the
operation of certain infrastructural networks); and (c) the introduction of a wider variety of
privatization techniques to encourage further domestic and foreign private investment. A
project to undertake demonstration privatizations using a number of additional techniques will
be prepared in the context of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan by late 1992.



-27 -
Re - Swmuwy of de Systemic Refonn Program
1. Enterprise Reform
P,wadzadon. The Government introduced a widespread voucher scheme early in the reform program. To date the majority of
digible housing and small businesse, and a subsantial number of medium and large enterprises havo been privatized through
this program. To accelerate and diversify the program, the following additional measures will be taken:
1. The Government intends to remove most remaining restrictions on the sale and resale of non-agricultural land after the
introduction of the new currency.
2. The stock of units to be sold by auction in the programn of privatization of small enterprises has been expanded by raisiag
the maximum value of enterpriss that can be auctioned, and through the ongoing break-up of larger enterprises. The
Government bas lifted cash quota lmittions for entprises that could not be sold in a first auction, and inteands to removo
all such restrictions as soon as the new currency is introduced. The privatizationprogram for smaller enterpriseswill be
completed by end- 1992.
3. To accelerate the privatization of large enterprises, the Government is taking initiatives such as: (a) the ystematic break-
up, where feasible, of the larger enterprises into smaller units which are easier to sell; (b) easing of most restricti  on
privatizationto foreign investors ;n June 1992, except for small list of reserved activkites (such as weapons production or
the operation of certain infrastructural networks); and (c) the introduction of a wider variety of privatizationtechniquesto
encourage further domestic and foreign private investment. A project to undertake demonstrationprivatizationsusing a
number of additional techniqueswill be prepared by end- 1992.
Sate ewerplse management. Not all ste-owned enterprises wiU be privatized in the immediate future and some (railways,
lectric power generation and distribution, etc.) are likely to remain in state hands for the foreseeablefuture. To improvethe
performance of thesw enterprises, the Government intends to:
1.   Examine the present organizational armngements for state enterprise management and make recommendations for
modifations which would facilitat improved performance by end 1992.
2. Establish regulations and accompanying institutional arrangements to implement new accounting standards by the end of
1992, to be fuUy operationalby end 1993.
3.   Continue to restrain financial flows to enteprises from all levels of govenment (including implicit subsidies through the
banldag sstem) to amounts consistent with a fiscally sound strategy for hardening the fnancial constraints on enterprises.
4.   Design and mak operational a system for montoring domestic and inter-republican inter-enterprisearrers by early 1993
and to resrain tese arrears by resorting to temporary measures such as prepayment schemes.
S. Initiate by early 1993 thorough studies of selected sectors and large enterprises in order to identify their short- and
medium-term restructuring needs.
B. Competition Potdea
Break-W of e4sdng anilcoMmpeve strciares. The Government has succeeded in breaking up a number of large industrial
*combinatsW. Further reforms include:
1. The continuation of large enterprise breakup in two ways: (a) on a case-by-ca6ebasis under the aegis of the respective
breaeb ministry; and (b) in conjunction with privatization, as stipulated by law and decree.
2.   The development of regulations and institutional arangements to impleament the draft Competion Law as soon as possible
after .ts passage.
Prmnodng newprivate sector acdviWes. The Government continues to make concerted efforts to promote new private activity
through: (a) sales from large enterprises of separable activities (such as workshops) and moveable assets (such as vehicles and
equipment); (b) systematic efforts to contact out public services; and (c) dissemination of information about relevant legislation,
regulation and programs, and sources of extnal and domestic assistance.
Enviromnemfrjfordegn Invesmane. The Government Intends to take action, by April 1993, on the recommendationsof the
Forign Investment Advisoty Service's disgostic study in order to promote foreign investment.
Legal wrd himnst   rtonatframewrkfor comnmrci aCdvdes. The Government is taking steps to develop accompanyiag
regulationsand strengthen the juridical infrastruturenecessay to enforce draft bankruptcy legisation and wil by mid-1993
sytematicaly review, and eventually modify as required, aUl major laws govening transactions (such as transfer of property and
sales, credit, and collatera transactions),with the intentionof furtherencouragingprivatesectoraetry and facilitating
commercial activity.



- 28 -
m. FinancalSystem Reorm
Baklng 4w and prudeal reguladon and szperlslon. Work has been started on procedures and reporting requirements for
off-site banking supervision and monitoring bank credit, and by late 1992, a new systwm of reporting by commercial and state.
owned banks for these purposes will be operational. During the first half of 1993, institutional arrangementswill be made and
training programs undertaken to start implementing on-site bancing supervision.
Accoundng, ouditng, andpwyentstsm. By January 1993, enabling regulationsfor new accounting, auditing and payment
systems conforming to international standards will be introduced. Also, a new plan of accounts will be implemented for the
Bank of Lithuania, and a detailed plan and timetable will be developed for modoraizingtho domestic payments and ela& ing
system. Staff training will begin during the first half of 1993.
Banking sector restructuring. The Government proposes to develop a coherent plan and timetable for the fnacial restructuring
of the existing banking system by the beginning of 1993, including an appraisal of inter-enterprisearrears and possible
approaches for dealingwith them.
IV. Socia Protection and the Social Safety Net
Overal design andfnandng of the social safety net system. The Government proposes to establish priorities and develop a plan
by January 1993 for the overall medium-term design and financing of the social safety net system (pensions. unemployment
benefts, family bonefits, sick pay bonefis, social assistance benefits) within general budgetary constraints, and based on an
evaluation of the economic, social, and budgetary implications of various options under alternative economic and demographic
scenarios.
Unemplymnt bnefits and emplmentprograms. Although unemployment is still low in Lithuania, the risk of a rapid rise in
the number of unemployed in the near future is considerable. To cope with the resulting budgetary costs, the Government will:
1.   Prepare proposls to introduce a simplified (posible flat-rate) structure of unemploymentbeneffts, along with
appropriatey modified eligibility criteria by Dcembr 1992.
2. Design a system of retraining and other proacdive labor market policies, with a specified level of fuiancing, more secure
from crowding-outby expenditureson unemploymeatbonefts or other social programs by early 1993.
Pension benfs. The Governmentwill pteparoa comprobensivemedium-termpensionreform plh', basedon a full costingof
options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios over an extended period of time by rarly 1993.
Social taswe. Central to the design of the social safey net is the establishmentof a mininal but realisticpoverty lvel to
provide a beach-matk for all social assistance benefits. The Government proposes to:
1.   Defme and establish this bench-mark, which would be linked to an index of prices for a basc ubistenceleve
consumption basket, to enable regular revision to maintain its value in real terms, and to establish a viable social
assstance program aimed at assuring that individuals receive payments to bring incomes at least to the poverty line by
begioning 1993.
2.   Have desigaed, and begin to implement in 1993, an effective meantesting system for channeling social benefts to
the most vulnerable groups of the population, including strengtheningthe staffmg and equipment of the network of
local socia assistance offices.
V. Econom ic Mangemen
Statisticalsystem. The Government is atachinghigh priority to providingadequate gaffngand training in ministriesand the
central bank, and implementing mechanisms for data collctdon and compilation, so that national accounts, price, monetary,
fiscal, and balance of payments statistics become available on a timely basis.
Recording and managemet ofeaernal borrowing and assistance. By November 1992, all inflows of foreign grants and
governmentborrowing wil be centralized through the accountsof the Ministry of Fuianceand a ystem wiUl be put in place for
monitoring, recording and reporting these flows.
Puic Invesmeprogram. The Government plans to establish, by early 1993, a mechanism to set priorities, establish project
ovaluation criteria, and appraieprojectproposalsfor public invement. By mid-1993 the fst roiingthreeyearpublic
investmentprogram will be prepared.



- 29 -
85.          State enterprise management. Not all state-owned enterprises will be
privatized in the immediate future and some (railways, electric power generation and
distribution, etc.) are likely to remain in state hands for the foreseeable future. Most state-
owned enterprises not scheduled for privatization have already been formally corporatized and
become formally Independent of their founding ministries. By the end of 1992, a study will
be completed to examine the present organizational arrangements for state enterprise
management and make recommendations for modifications which would facilitate improved
performance. The Bank has assisted the Government to draft terms of reference for this
study.
86.          Following the submission of a new law on accounting procedures to
parliament, the Government intends to establish regulations and accompanying institutional
arrangements to implement these accounting standards by the end of 1992. Appropriate
training will be provided with a view to making the system fully operational by the end of
1993. With all direct subsidies for current expenditures from the state budget to enterprises
having been discontinued, the Government intends to continue to restrain financial flows to
enterprises from all levels of government (including implicit subsidies through the banking
system) to amounts consistent with a fiscally sound strategy for hardening the financial
constraints on enterprises. By early 1993, the Government intends to design and make
operational a system for monitoring inter-enterprise arrears (both domestic and inter-
republican) and to restrain these arrears by resorting to temporary measures such as
prepayment schemes.
87.          For the longer term, the Government intends to initiate by early 1993
thorough studies of selected sectors and large enterprises in order to identify their short- and
medium-term restructuring needs, while emphasizing Lithuania's potential to expand
production of exports. The Bank has assisted the Government to draft terms of reference for
this study.
Competion Polickes
88.          Break-up of existng ant-competive structes. Given the pervasiveness of
anti-competitive structures in Lithuania's economy, the Government aims at broadening its
deconcentration and anti-monopoly policy. Following the breakup of many "combinats,T it is
continuing to break up other large enterprises: (a) on a case-by-case basis under the aegis of
the respective branch minstry; and (b) in conjunction with privatization, as stipulated by law
and decree. With the approval of the draft Competition Law by parliament expected for the
near future, the Government has requested technical assistance for the furter development of
accompanying regulations and the evaluation of alternative institutional arrangements to
implement and enforce the law, and the Bank has assisted the Government to draft terms of
referenc& for an advisor to assist with this work. Following completion of this work,
scheduled for January 1993, the Government intends to put appropriate regulations and
institutional arrangements in place.
89.          Promodng new private sector actvities. Despite a variety of measures already
undertaken, obstacles to the development of small businesses remain. These include lack of
equal access to land and other suitable business premises, difficulties in securing finance for
establishment and expansion of small business and a lack of business skills and business
information. Thus, the Government continues to make concerted efforts to promote new
private activity. As part of the small privatization program, sales from large enterprises of
separable activities (such as workshops) and moveable assets (such as vehicles and equipment)
are providing opportunities for entrepreneurs. In addition, the recent issue of a decree



-30 -
requiring the contracting out of public services, is prompting systematic efforts to implement
these measures at the level of the central and local governments as well as at various
government agencies. The Government also intends to intensify ongoing efforts
systematically to disseminate information about relevant legislation, regulation and programs,
and sources of external and domestic assistance.
90.          Envirounentforforeign invesament. To attract valuable foreign capital, the
Government intends to open up further the process of privatization to foreign investors. Also,
with partial financing from the EC, the Bank's Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS)
has begun work on a diagnostic study to assist in identifying ways to promote foreign
investment, including further amendments to the Foreign Investment Law and strengthening
institutional capacity. The Government intends to take action on these recommendations by
April 1993.
91.          Legal and instieutionalfirameworkfor commercial activities. A bankruptcy
law has been drafted, with input from OECD experts, and has been submitted to parliament.
The Government is taking steps to develop accompanying regulations and strengthen the
juridical infrastructure necessary to enforce this legislation, with the objective that it be
operational soon after the adoption of the law. Also, by mid-1993, the authorities intend to
systematically review, and eventually modify as required, all major laws governing
transactions (such as transfer of property and sales, credit, and collateral transactions), with
the intention of further encouraging private sector entry and facilitating commercial activity.
FInanc al System Reform
92.          So far, financial sector reform has mainly focused on the transformation of
Bank of Lithuania into a central bank, the creation and licensing of a limited number of new
commercial banks, and preparations for the introduction of the new currency. To provide a
stable foundation for Lithuania's financial system as a whole and to ensure that domestic and
incoming foreign capital is allocated efficiently, the banking system as a whole needs to be
thoroughly restructured. Further reform is also required in such areas as bank supervision
and regulation; accounting, auditing, and payments systems. The Bank of Lithuania is
seeking technical assistance in these areas.
93.          Banking law and prudential regulation and supervision. As an essential
precondition for effective monetary policy and a stable, well-functioning banking system,
banking laws will be modified as necessary, prior to the introduction of the new currency, to
provide the Bank of Lithuania with the appropriate authority to regulate and supervise banks.
Work has been started on procedures and reporting requirements for off-site banking
supervision and monitoring bank credit, and by late 1992, a new system of reporting by
commercial and state-owned banks for these purposes will be operational. During the first
half of 1993, institutional arrangements will be made and training programs undertaken to
start implementing on-site banking supervision.
94.          Accounting, auditng, and payments system. By January 1993, enabling
regulations for new accounting, auditing and payments systems conforming to international
standards will be introduced. Also, a new plan of accounts will be implemented for the Bank
of Lithuania, and a detailed plan and timetable will be developed for modernizing the
domestic payments and clearing system. During the first half of 1993, to implement the new



- 31 -
accounting, auditing, and payments systems, staff will be enrolled in appropriate training
programs and the necessary institutional arrangements will be made.
95.          Bankng sector restrucuring. The Government recognizes the fragile financial
situation of the large state-owned banks, and in particular the actual or near illiquidity of the
Savings Banks and the Agricultural Bank, as a potential source of monetary instability. In
order not to jeopardize stabilization and the success of the currency reform, and to provide a
sound basis for the medium-term development of a banking system that can efficiently allocate
capital in a growing economy, the Government proposes to develop a coherent plan and
timetable for the financial restructuring of the existing banking system by the beginning of
1993. including an appraisal of inter-enterprise arrears and possible approaches for dealing
with them. This plan will be based on an examination of all available options and an
evaluation of their impact on the budget, the banking system, and the privatization program.
Approaches to be considered include the (full or partial) liquidation, restructuring, and
recapitalization of banks, the creation of a special government agency to take over the non-
performing assets of the banking system, and the issuance of government bonds or use of
privatization revenues to cover them. The plan will also identify ways of adapting the
banking system to the needs of a market economy and, in particular, increasing private
ownership of banks. Technical assistance has been sought for this task. Although urgent
action is needed to prevent the fragile situation (particularly of the Savings Bank) from
uning into a financial crisis, it is understood that the medium-term restructuring of the state
banks' portfolios will have to go hand in hand with a restructuring (and in some cases,
liquidation) of the enterprises that are their clients.
Social Protection and the Social Safety Net
96.          The ongoing reform process will inevitably involve social costs due to
inflation and rising unemployment associated with the restructuring of production. The
Government proposes to take measures to ensure that the costs of adjustment do not fal
disproportionately on the most vulnerable groups, such as children and the elderly, while at
the same time providing incentives to facilitate the process of labor force adjustment,
encouraging productive employment, and keeping the budgetary costs of the social safety net
manageable.
97.          Overall design and flnancing of the social safety net system. By January
1993, the Government proposes to establish priorities and develop a plan for the overall
medium-term design and financing of the social safety net system (pensions, unemployment
benefits, family benefits, sick pay benefits, social assistance benefits) within general budgetary
constraints, and based on an evaluation of the economic, social, and budgetary implications of
various options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios (including in particular
different assumptions or projections about output growth, changes in real wages and the rate
of unemployment, and tax revenues). To provide local authorities with increased incentives
for the effective management of local employment and social assistance offices and the
efficient administration of benefits, the Government also proposes to examine the possibilities
for replacing the current system of block grants from the central budget to local authorities,
with a system of matching grants.
98.          Unemployment benefits and employment programs. Although unemployment
Is still low in Lithuania, the risk of a rapid rise in the number of unemployed in the near
future is considerable. To cope with the resulting budgetary costs, by December 1992 the



- 32 -
Government will prepare proposals to introduce a simplified (possibly flat-rate) structure of
unemployment benefits, along with appropriately modified eligibility criteria (e.g., excluding
new entrants, such as school leavers, and re-entrants into the labor market). Staffing and
equipment of local employment offices will be reviewed on a regular basis, and strengthened
as required to cope with actual levels of unemployment. Early in 1993, after examining and
evaluating several options, the Government will design a system of retraining and other
proactive labor market policies, with a specified level of financing, more secure from
crowding-out by expenditures on unemployment benefits or other social programs.
99.          Pension benefits. Since the brdgetary sustainability of the current earnings-
related pension scheme is doubtful, the Government is preparing, and will have ready before
the end of 1992, a simplified flat-rate structure of pension benefits which can be introduced, if
necessary, as a temporary measure to prevent budgetary imbalances and reach the stabilization
targets of the reform program. By early 1993, the Government will also have prepared, as
part of the overall design of the social benefit system, a comprehensive medium-term pension
reform plan, based on a full costing of options under alternative economic and demographic
scenarios over an extended period of time. The Government also proposes to evaluate options
for establishing private pension schemes within an appropriate legal framework.
100.         Social assistance. Central to the design of the social safety net is the
establishment of a minimal but realistic poverty level to provide a bench-mark for all social
assistance benefits. By the beginning of 1993, the Government proposes to define and
establish this bench-mark, which would be linked to an index of prices for a basic subsistence
level consumption basket, to enable regular revision to maintain its value in real terms.
Following the completion of the necessary background analysis, the Government will develop
recommendations, and initiate any necessary legislative measures, to establish a viable social
assistance program aimed at assuring that individuals receive payments to bring incomes at
least to the poverty line. In 1993, the Government expects to have designed, and to begin to
implement, an effective means-testing system for channeling social benefits to the most
vulnerable groups of the population, with the objective that the system be fully operational
before the end of the year. While initially, for administrative ease and to speed up the
implementation of the system, there may be a need to combine the definition of a limited
number of automatically-eligible target groups with means-testing for others, the Government
is committed to moving towards the universal application of means-testing in the medium
term. The Government is also planning to take the necessary steps to strengthen the staffing
and equipment of the network of local social assistance offices. The Government is seeking
technical assistance to help establish a realistic poverty level, introduce means testing, and
appropriately strengthen local social assistance offices. Terms of reference for this work have
been prepared with the assistance of the Bank, in the context of the proposed Rehabilitation
Loan.
Economic Management
101.         The Government is committed to putting in place the institutions and capacity
for public sector management to guide and monitor the reform process as well as appropriate
legal and institutional infrastructure within which the private sector can operate. At a general
level, this includes strengthening the institutional framework for policy development and
mechanisms for coordination among the various economic ministries and the Bank of
Lithuania.



- 33 -
102.         Statistical system. The Government is aware of weaknesses in the present
statistical infrastructure and institutional framework for monitoring economic developments.
It recognizes that such aformation is essential to evaluate and coordinate policy, and is
attaching high priority to providing adequate staffing and training In ministries and the central
bank, and implementing mechanisms for data collection and compilation, so that national
accounts, price, monetary, fiscal, and balance of payments statistics become available on a
timely basis. To this end, it is preparing, and proposes to adopt as soon as possible, a
Statistics Law, that will provide the necessary legal authority for data collection, while
clarifying responsibilities for data compilation and evaluation.
103.         Recording and management of eternal borrowing and assistance. A unit
within the Ministry of Finance has been given the responsibility for external debt recording
and reporting. By November 1992, all inflows of official foreign grants and government
borrowing will be centralized through the accounts of the Ministry of Finance. At the same
time, a system will be put in place for monitoring, recording and reporting these flows, as
well as borrowing by state enterprises, consistent with the reporting requirements of the Bank.
104.         Public ilnvestmnent program. In anticipation of a resumed public investment
program, the Government plans to establish, by early 1993, a mechanism to set priorities,
establish project evaluation criteria, and appraise project proposals for public investment. By
mid-1993, the Goverrment will, as part of the overall medium-term budgetary planning,
prepare the first version of a rolling three-year public investment program, which-unlike
multi-year plans in the past-would focus on: (a) establishing appropriate sectoral policy
frmeworks; O) setting relative public investment priorities among and within sectors; and
(c) public investment requirements and programs rather than enterprise investments, which
would be handled by the banking system.
V. Bank Group Assistance Strategy
A. Overview and Objectives of the Strategy
105.         The Bank's immediate objectives are to assist the Government in the
implementation of its economic reform program, while providing import financing to maintain
essential services and production. The Bank's medium-term objectives are to continue to
support a full transition to a market-based economy (including structural measures to ensure a
vigorous supply response to the new incentive system), while financing sound investments in
key sectors. More specifically, the Bank's activities would aim to:
*     support the process of economic reform by facilitating the implementation of
macroeconomnic policies and systemic or structural refbrms needed to stabilize
the economy and stimulate production, while providing quick disbursing
support to critical sectors of the economy;
*     strengthen the design and implementation of a social safety net that would
protect the most vulnerable groups during the transition period and assist in
labor force restructuring;
*     build institutional capacity in economic management to support a market-based
economy; and



- 34 -
o     support sector-specific reforms to restructure or expand productive capacity
and promote medium-term investments to improve economic efficiency and
protect the environment (focussing initially on the critical energy sector).
106.         Lithuania joined the IBRD in July 1992 and the Bank's relationship with
Lithuania is therefore still at an incipient stage. In anticipation of membership, a Bank
economic mission visited Lituania in January 1992 and reviewed the macroeconomic
situation, examining recent economic performance and the policies required for structural
economic reform and restored economic growth. It also examined key sectors including
agriculture, industry, energy, transport, telecommunications, environment, municipal services,
health, education, and housing. A draft CEM will be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly. In addition to reviewing recent economic and policy developments, the report
examines macroeconomic prospects (including external financing requirements) and priorities
for medium-term structural reforms and sectoral policies (including an initial identification of
associated technical assistance requirements) and investments. The proposed Rehabilitation
Loan would be the first Bank operation in the country. In order to support the economic
reform program, the Bank has worked closely with the government to identify specific
technical assistance which will be needed for design and implementation of critical aspects of
the reform program. Based on work related to the CEM and the proposed loan, the following
discussion provides an initial outline of the Bank's country assistance strategy in a number of
areas.
B. Macroeoonomic and Systemic Reforms
107.         The Government's intentions with respect to macroeconomic and systemic
reform are described in Part IV of this report, and in the attached Memorandwn on Economic
ReJfor Polides (Annex 3). The proposed Rehabilitation Loan will provide concrete support
for the reform program. Related actions by the Bank to further support the program are
described briefly in the following paragraphs.
Macroeconomic Policies
108.         Bank advice on macroeconomic policies, closely coordinated with the IW, is
being provided through both the preparation of this initial lending operation and through
discussions on the CEM. The CEM (and subsequent economic updating reports) will also
provide the basis for mobilizing and coordinating assistance from other multilateral and
bilateral agencies. This task will become increasingly important as the emphasis shifts from
macroeconomic stabilization to systemic and sectoral reform. Since the normalization and
diversification of trade relations will continue to be a critical area, a review of trade issues in
Lithuania and the other Baltic States has also been initiated. It is expected that issues relating
to the management of the public expenditure program, central/local fiscal relations,
investment planning and sectoral reform will become increasingly prominent in the policy
dialogue, areas in which the Bank's technical expertise can be particularly helpful to the
Lithuanian authorities in developing the next stages of the reform program and utilizing
foreign assistance in an efficient manner.
Systemic Reforms
109.        In discussions related to this loan and the CEM, the Bank has already
provided initial support in the design and introduction of systemic reforms in a number of



- 35 -
wide ranging areas. This process will continue through economic and sector work and
through lending and supervision. Bank advice and technical assistance proposals have
focused, in particular, on the following areas:
*     Enterprise reform, pro-competion and and-monopoly policies. Advice has
been provided on vurious aspects of enterprise reform and competition/anti-
monopoly policies. Technical assistance proposals have been prepared in the
areas of pilot privatization and anti-monopoly policies. An enterprise survey
has been initiatad and, at the request of the Government, FIAS is undertaking
a review of the environment for foreign investment. Financial support for the
enterprise reform process, drawing on this and further sector work
programmed in FY93, could be provided through subsequent lending
operations.
*     FinancWil sector reform. The draft CEM provides extensive analysis of the
problems affecting Lithuania's financial sector, and their links with the
enterprise sector. As a first step in the process of strengthening the
commercial banking system, a study will be initiated leading to proposals for
restructuring the banks. The res,ults of this study, together with work on the
enterprise sector, would be utilized in the preparation of a subsequent
enterprise and financial sector reform operation.
*     Soca safety-net. The Bank is assisting the Government to review its social
protection and safety-net system and to identify measures to strengthen the
system during the transition to a market-oriented economy. Technical
assistance proposals are being prepared in several areas, including the
methodology to define a poverty line, a program to design and implement an
effective means-testing system, and strengthening of the network of social
assistance offices. In addition, the Bank's draft CEM provides
recommendations for improving efficiency and protecting essential services in
the health and education sectors. The proposed early assistance to strengthen
the design and implementation of social safety-net programs will help protect
vulnerable groups from the prevailing dislocation and hardship, and the
inevitable negative effects of an economic reform process of this magnitude.
*     Economic management. High priority must be given to strengthening the
capacity of policy-makers and staff to design and implement reforms.
Although Lithuanian technical expertise and education levels are relatively
high, market-oriented professional skills need to be developed or adapted in a
number of areas, including accounting and legal frameworks and skills for a
market economy. Many of the tasks performed by the public sector, ranging
from statistical work to public investment programming and aid management,
need to be redefined and strengthened. To this end, training programs are
being initiated to build up the institutional capacity to perform essential
economic management functions and more generally to remedy skill
deficiencies in areas that are vital to a market economy.



- 36 -
Sector-Spec(flc Reforms
110.         In the short term, the Government attaches high priority to preventing a
collapse of essential services (such as heat, power and health services) and agricultural
production, and will therefore channel the bulk of the imports to be financed by the proposed
Rehabilitation Loan to these sectors. In the medium-term, the Government recognizes that
there will be a need for sector-specific reforms and investments, complementary to the
broader macroeconomic and systemic reforms, in order to achieve the desired supply
response, facilitate private sector activities, increase efficiency and reduce environmental
degradation. Key sectors where Bank operations are being considered include:
*     Energy. Based on the capacity of its refnery and nuclear power station (the
only ones in the Baltic countries), its position as regional center within the
electricity network of the FSU, and the anticipated energy demand in the
region, Lithuania aims at positioning itself as a small, efficient, market-
oriented energy trading country and the energy sector is accorded the highest
priority by the Government. In order to secure this position, quick action is
required in the areas of energy pricing and institutional reform. The Bank has
already initiated project identification in this sector, which could lead to an
early lending operation in support of a wide range of sectoral policy and
institutional reforms. This operation is also likely to include a significant
environmental component.
-     Agriculture. In the agricultural sector the burden of adjustment will fall
mainly on individual producers. The Government's primary role will be to
ensure an appropriate legal, institutional, and policy framework within which
producers are free to operate. In the short-term, the sector is facing an acute
shortage of inputs (high protein feed, veterinary drugs, agro-chemical inputs,
etc.) which are needed to avoid a further sharp decline in output. Finance for
some of these inputs would be provided by the Rehabilitation Loan. In the
medium-term, the sector needs to address several challenges, including
changes in relative prices, reduced profitability and an inadequate network of
services oriented towards the growing number of small, private farmers. The
Bank's draft CEM provides a preliminary assessment of the needed policy and
institutional changes and the investment and technical assistance requirements
in the sector.
*     Health. The old concepts of centralization, specialization, and emphasis on
treatment have been replaced with new principles of decentralization, quality
of care, strengthened education of professionals, prevention and health
promotion. An immediate priority is to procure critically-needed drugs,
vaccines, medical equipment and supplies, and some of this procurement will
be supported through the Rehabilitation Loan. Other priorities include the
establishment of a comprehensive maternal and child health care program, the
introduction of several risk preventinn programs and an overall review of
programs for the further development of the health sector.
*     Industy. In the industrial sector, Lithuania's strategy will be guided by the
general principle that the Government can play an important supporting role,
but that the major adjustment efforts need to be made by the enterprises
themselves. While significant Bank support to this sector is envisaged, it
would primarily be focused on supporting privatization and private sector



- 37 -
development, as well as improved management control of the enterprises
which, at least for the foreseeable future, will remain In state hands.
*     Environment. Projects in the above areas, and particularly in the energy
sector, will contain environmeral components. In the energy sector, attention
will be given to reducing the high levels of airborne pollution. In the
agriculture sector, environmental concerns are less severe. However, nitrate
pollution of the upper groundwater layers caused by agricultural runoff of
fertilizers and carelessness in the management of fertilizer stocks has been
detected in nearly half of the Lithuanian territory. In the transport sector, a
major environmental concern is the high level of tailpipe emissions, the result
of poor vehicle design and maintenance. Improved public transport equipment
should make a substantial contribution, at least in urban areas.
C. Summary of the Bank's Assistance Program
Lending
111.         The lending program is designed to combine policy-based lending with
investment lending in the coming years. The economic reform program that will be supported
by the proposed Rehabilitation Loan contains measures to address the objectives described
above and technical assistance is envisaged in many areas to support implementation of the
reforms. In general, the overall size and composition of the Bank's lending program will be
very closely linked to the Governmet's performance in implementing its reform program.
Assuming Lithuania's continued good performance on economic reform, the Bank is planning
a gradually expanding lending program over the next three years averaging about US$70
million per year. One to two operations per year are envisaged, which would continue to
focus on the implementation of the reform program and associated financing requirements.
While this first operation emphasizes relief for the critical scarcity of inputs and spare parts,
as the economy recovers, and export revenues to finance essential imports increase, Bank
resources would gradually be channelled into investments aimed at increasing productive
capacity, particularly in the private sector, and at rehabilitating the country's infrastructure,
while supporting sectoral and institutional policy measures.
112.         This first Rehabilitation Loan focusses on the provision of essential goods
primarily for the agricultural and energy sectors and the health system, while supporting the
Government's economic reform program. Specific sectoral reforms, as well as investments,
will be further developed in subsequent sectoral lending. As the most likely immediate
follow-up, an Energy/Environment Project is planned, which would support energy
conservtion and other possible investments in energy, transport and municipal infrastructure,
many of which would not only result in significant cost savings and improved services, but
would also begin to address environmental issues and enhance environmental quality. In
subsequent years, the proposed lending program includes a Prhute Sector Development
Project, focuasing on parallel reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors, which would
support policy initiatives to foster further private sector development and provide investment
finance for private entrepreneurs; a Human Resources Development Project, which would
focus on reforms and financial assistance needs in the education and health sectors and may
also address social safety-net issues; and an Agricultural Sector Loan. As dialogue with the



- 38 -
country intensifies, policy-based lending supporting both macroeconomic adjustment and
further structural reforms, will be considered.
Economic and Sector Work
113.         The planned economic and sector work would provide the analytical
underpinning for the Bank's policy discussions with the Government as well as strengthening
the basis for future lending. In close coordination with the IMF, European institutions and
EBRD, the Bank's work will continue to focus on the sectoral and structural elements of the
reform program. The initial CEM will provide a comprehensive overview of macroeconomic,
structural and sectoral issues, constraints and priorities. Following the CEM, an Economic
Update is planned to review fast-moving developments in the economy and to reassess overall
financing requirements and creditworthiness considerations. In addition, a Trade Study is
planned to review trade-related issues in all three Baltic states. Sector work will also be
initiated in the near future in the energy/environment sectors and on enterprise development
and financial sector restructuring issues in order to support the Govermnent's reforms and lay
the foundation for further lending operations.
Technical Assistance
114.         Substantial technical assistance will be required to design and implement
structural and sectoral reforms and investment projects. The identification of critical technical
assistance requirements has already been initiated in the context of preparing the CEM and the
Rehabilitation Loan (Annex 5). As indicated above, many systemic or structural reforms are
being supported by the Loan and Terms of Reference for the related technical assistance have
been prepared. The Government would understandably prefer to finance this with grant
resources. As such, the Bank is making available its preliminary assessment of technical
assistance requirements and Terms of References to interested donors in order to assist the
Government in identifying grant sources of funding and thus ensuring that these core
requirements are being addressed. Even though this technical assistance will not be financed
through loan proceeds, the Bank will actively monitor the progress of the various studies and
programs of advice and support in the course of loan supervision, and will utilize the findings
in developing and designing future Bank operations. Future sector operations or projects are
also likely to require technical assistance components, particularly for the design and
implementation of related policy and institutional reforms.
D. Other Bank Group Activities
115.         Lithuania's application for membership in the IFC is being processed. IFC's
strategy in Lithuania will be to support the privatization and modernization process of
domestic enterprises so that they can become internationally competitive, particularly those
that are able to attract foreign technical partners in joint venture undertakings. Sectors which
appear to offer some promise in this regard are wood products, construction materials and
tourism. IEC will assist such firms by providing technical assistance for the privatization
process, and financial support to privatized enterprises that show promise of becoming
internationally competitive. IFC has received some joint venture project inquiries, but many
investors are waiting for property rights to be clarified and for economic reforms to take hold
before venturing in. At the request of the Government, FIAS is undertaking a diagnostic
assessment of the environment for foreign investment and has already identified a number of



- 39 -
specific areas for improvement. The Bank's Economic Development Institute is also
preparing to provide training courses in such fields as privatization and bank management.
E. Collaboration with Other Agencies
116.         Various donors have been providing assistance to Lithuania for the past year
and the G24 has been coordinating resource mobilization activities. Several European
countries, either bilaterally-particularly the Nordic countries-or through the EC, have
initiated significant progrns of assistance. Sweden, for example, has agreed to finance
foreign advisors for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU-paras 127-128) for this proposed
Rehabilitation Loan. EBRD has also initiated its program in Lithuania, focussing in particular
on support for the energy, telecommunications and financial sectors. As the Bank builds up
its presence in Lithuania, it can be expected to play an increasing aid-coordination role based
on its multi-sectoral experience as well as the overview provided by its economic and sector
work. In conjunction with the potential build-up of its lending program and a deeper
understanding of Lithuania's economy, the Bank also plans to intensify its aid coordination
efforts in certain sectors. Considerable effort has already been devoted to sharing information
with donors, both formally in the context of meetings organized by the ECIG24, as well as
meetings with bilateral donors, and informally among staff working on Lithuania. This effort
is important in order to minimize the duplication of activities and to ensure complementarily
of activities by various donors. With respect to this speciflc Rehabilitation Loan, examples of
such cooperation include the agreement of other donors to consider financing much of the
technical assistance proposed in support of the Government's economic program, and the
request by EBRD (which has been agreed to by the Government) that the Project
Implementation Unit also be used to assist the implementation of proposed EBRD operations.
117.         The Bank has worked closely with the IMF to establish an early understanding
on the Lithuanian economy. Both institutions have coordinated their advice and initial lending
operations to the Lithuanians on the reform program, and participated in each others' missions
and meetings with the Government. The Fund has concentrated on macroeconomic
stabilization issues, while the Bank has taken the lead on structural reform and sectoral issues.
The success of- the Lithuanian program depends critically on continued close coordination and
cooperation among the IMF, the EC institutions, the G24 countries and the World Bank
group. The Lithuanian Government fully encourages such close coordination.
VI. The Proposed Rehabilitation Loan
A. Background
118.         The Lithuanian economy is in the midst of both a fundamental transformation
and a sharp decline in output. While the Government has already made substantial progress
in designing and initiating the implementation of a broad transition to a market-based
economy, it recognizes the need for further stabilization measures, as well as a broadening
and deepening of its reform program. To this end it has committed itself to the extensive
program of stuctural adjustment and reform described above.
119.         The adjustment and reform process has been constrained by severe trade
disruption and more recently by a sharp deterioration in Lithuania's terms of trade. Efforts to
normalize trade relations are continuing, with limited success, but the prospects are for futher



- 40-
trade disruption and large increases in the prices of energy and other imports. Under these
circumstances there is an immediate need for import support to mitigate further declines in
output to allow time for the Introduction of the comprehensive economic adjustment and
reform program.
Radonale for Bank Involvement
120.         The proposed Bank loan, which is being presented to the Board concurrently
with the presentation of the Stand-By Arrangement to the IMF Board, would be part of the
response of the international financial community to Lithuania's pressing short-term import
needs, on the one hand, and to Lithuania's demonstrated commitment to economic reform, on
the other hand. Although bilateral donors and the EC will continue to account for a large
share of the financial flows to the country, Lithuania and others will be looking to the IMF
and the Bank for leadership and coordination of financial assistance as well as advice on
macroeconomic and sectoral policy. The Rehabilitation Loan has been prepared in close
association with the IMF's Stand-By Arrangement. The Bank has concentrated on developing
the program of systemic reforms described above and in the Memorandum on Economic
Reobrm Policies contained in Annec 3. This program lays out a framework for reforms which
are necessary for the medium-term restructuring of the Lithuanian economy and establishes
realistic targets and indicators to monitor progress already made by the Government in
initiating the reform process. If implemented successfully, the reform program would provide
a sound basis for future Bank assistance to Lithuania. The rationale for Bank involvement
would therefore be to support the reform process and balance of payments at this critical
tuning point, by financing essential imports. Due to the urgency of needed import support,
the loan would not contain any specific policy conditionality except for normal conditions
regarding procurement and disbursement.
B. The Project
Objectives
121.         The project's objectives would be two-fold: (a) to assist the Government in
the design and implementation of its adjustment and structural reform program (as outlined in
the Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies in Annex 3); and (b) to help maintain or
increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors during the next 6 to 12 months. Basic
imports are urgendy required to prevent firther deterioration of the existing capital stock, to
maintain essential services such as power, heat, transport and health services and to generate a
supply response to the new set of incentives in key productive sectors such as agriculture.
Project Description
122.         The proposed loan of US$60 million would finance: (a) essential imports in
key sectors, such as health, agriculture and energy (US$45 million), with tentative equal
allocations; and (b) production inputs by individual enterprises imported through normal
commercial channels (US$15 million). The Government and the Bank have reached
agreement on the standard negative list of goods which would not be financed under either
compone  (Annex 4).



-41 -
Essential Imports
123.         The Government and the Bank have agreed on a list of essential imports,
including critically-needed medical supplies in the health sector, and inputs to maintain
production in the agricultural and energy sectors.
*     In the health sector, the Government has requested fnancing for
pharmaceuticals and other essential medical supplies. The list comprises
vaccines, anti-infectious drugs, cardiac and vascular drugs, anti-neoplastic
drugs, other drugs, blood control supplies, and medical consumables. ThM
disruption of supply arrangements within the CMEA and FSU has caused
severe shortages of essential drugs and vaccines. Emergency assistance has
been provided by various bilateral donors, but the quantities received have
been inadequate to meet current consumption requirements and begin
rebuilding stocks.
*     In the agricultural sector, the Government has requested financing for feed
grain, protein meal, veterinary medicines, agro-chemicals, and packaging and
chemicals for the dairy industry. These imports are critically needed to
mitigate further declines in sectoral output, particularly in the meat and dairy
subsecors which generate significant exports and provide food security. The
proposed imports would, Inter alia, increase yields, reduce crop losses due to
pests, and reduce feed grain requiirements, while enhancing the efficiency and
competitiveness of the Lithuanian livestock industry.
*     In the energy sector, the Government has requested financing for lubricants,
refinery catalysts, chemicals and resins, boiler tubes, transformer and turbine
oil, and fire-resistant cable. Careful review by Bank sectoral specialists leaves
no doubt that these imports are critically needed.
This list notwithstanding, under the proposed terms for the loan the Bank could agree to
finance other imports that meet the project criteria of rapid support for maintaining productive
processes, including spare parts and critical replacement equipment. Any imports of goods
not on the above positive list would be subject to prior review by the Bank on a case-by-case
basis. Although no imports of petroleum products are envisaged, they are not specifically
excluded. If petroleum products are added to the list in the future, it has been agreed that not
more than one-third of the loan could be utilized for their importation. The criteria for
review and expanding the list are contained in Annex 4. Before submitting any request to the
Bank to expand the list, such request should be agreed to by the Steering Committee which
has been established for the project, coordinated through the Ministry of Economics.
124.         In terms of their subsequent distribution, the proposed list of goods to be
imported fall into two categories: (a) those which are of a social nature (for health care, etc.)
which will be disitributed through normal government channels free of charge; and
(b) commercial goods (protein meal, lubricants, etc.). For commercial goods, the Project
Implementation Unit (paras 127-128) will ensure that auctions or other forms of competitive
distribution will be employed in order to aim toward full cost recovery. In the case of goods
which are distributed free, or In any other case where there is any subsidy element In the
interal distribution, such subsidies must be explicidy identified in the budget.



- 42 -
Commercial Ciannel
12S.        The proposal to finance some imports through commercial channels is
intended first, to make foreign exchange for essential imports available to a wider range of
Lithuanian enterprises, and second, to further develop the capacity of the Lithuanian
commercial banking system. Although many enterprises are facing a liquidity crisis,
discussions with Lithuanian banks which are likely to participate in this program suggest that
there would be a significant demand for these funds from liquid and creditworthy enterprises
which have access to domestic currency. For this channel (which would be restricted to a
maximum of US$500,000 for any one enterprise) the enterprise would buy foreign exchange
for domestic currency at eligible Lithuanian commercial banks. The exchange rate for the
purchase of foreign currencies would be the Moscow auction rate so long as Lithuania
continues to use the ruble. Once the new currency is introduced, the rate will be the unified
exchange rate, determined by the Lithuanian monetary authorities (of which the Ministry of
Finance is a part) and agreed with the IMF. The Lithuanian bank would prepare the
necessary documentation and submit an application for approval to the PIU. Once the
application is approved, the PIU would obtain authorization for the transfer of funds from the
Special Account (vara 136) to the confirming correspondent commercial bank or the supplier,
and the bank would confirm a letter of credit for the purchase. The corresponding domestic
currency would be paid by the enterprise through the commercial bank to the Government.
126.        In general, any bank licensed to handle foreign exchange transactions would
be eligible to access Bank resources through this program. However before such eligibility
would be confirmed, the commercial bank will be asked to identify a qualified official who
would be directly responsible for all transactions under this program, and to provide details of
a training program for the staff involved in international transactions. Banks would charge a
fee for providing the services envisaged above and would compete with one another for this
business.
Project Implementation
127.         A Project Implementation Unit was established in June, 1992 to administer the
implementation of the project. The PIU is located within the Ministry of Finance and is
headed by a capable and qualified administrator. The unit will continuously be staffed with at
least two full-time national professional level staff. External advisers, selected with Bank
assistance and with extensive experience in Bank procedures, are providing the PIU with a
Procurement Specialist and a FinancelDisbursement specialist, together with other specialists
as required. These advisers have been appointed through an agreement between the
government of Sweden (which will finance them on a grant basis) and the Government of
Lithuania. The Bank is also preparing training courses on procurement and the Lithuanian
specialists of the PIU as well as in the other concerned agencies will be invited to participate.
128.         Responsibilities of the PIU include monitoring overall progress of
implementation, coordination among the various participating ministries and procurement
agencies to ensure a consistent approach in the implementation of the project (with particular
atnion to the agreed procurement/disbursement procedures), monitoring and control of the
proposed use of Bank funds through commercial banks, the administration of a Special
Account (vara 136), overall accounting and auditing of project accounts and preparation of
the consolidated progress reports and the Project Completion Report.



-43 -
129.        Technical assistance will be required for implementation of the loan ara
114) and the economic reform policies supported by the loan. Advisory services to assist the
Government in the implementation of its structural reform program will be financed through
grant sources. Areas where immediate technical assistance is proposed include: (a)
supporting measures to strengthen the enterprise sector (the introduction and evaluation of
new techniques of privatization, improved state-enterprise management, evaluation of key
industrial sectors and enterprises, and enhanced pro-competition policies); (b) restructuring of
commercial banks; and (c) reform of key areas of the social assistance programs. Terms of
Reference for this assistance have been drafted and brief summaries are provided in Annex 5.
130.         Given that this is the first operation in Lithuania, the time allocated for Bank
supervision has been augmented in order to provide any additional assistance which may be
required to ensure problem-free implementation. In particular, use will be made of an
experienced group of procurement advisors being established in the region to assist
supervision, review procurement documents, and also to provide specific guidance to the PIU
and its advisors with any implementation problems which may arise.
Procurement
131.         Procurement procedures previously utilized in Lithuania under central
planning are no longer appropriate. While new procurement guidelines are only now under
preparition, there is no apparent conflict between present practices and Bank requirements. A
Couw ry Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been prepared but is p!anned for FY93.
As briefly outlined below and as set forth in the Loan Agreement, procurement of essential
imports for the Rehabilitation Loan would be according to Bank Procurement Guidelines.
132.         Goods which are provided by nationals of, or produced in or supplied from
republics of the FSU, even if those republics are not yet members of the World Bank, would
be eligible, in addition to suppliers from other World Bank member countries and Taiwan,
China.
133.         All contracts above US$300,000, including contracts under the commercial
channel, will be procured according to simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures allowing the borrower to require the bidders to state the price in a single currency
widely used in international trade, specified in the bidding document. Contracts between
US$50,000 (the minimum for any single contract) and US$300,000, would be procured
through International Shopping in order to reinforce competitive practices in procurement.
Procurement for the essential imports component would be handled for the Government by
specialized procurement agencies of the concerned government department where these exist,
or by capable Lithuanian trading companies. Advice to these agencies and trading companies
would 15e provided by the PIU, which would also oversee and monitor the procurement
process to ensure conformity with Bank guidelines. Procurement undertaken by individual
enterprises using the commercial channel would utilize international shopping procurement
procedures which are, in general, similar to evolving Lithuanian commercial practices.
Documentation concerning individual transaptions would be retained by the PIU. Standard
bidding documents are being prepared by the PIU based on the Bank's own standard
documents. While all bidding documents will be subject to prior review, after the Bank has
reviewed at least the first two ICB documents in each sector, flrther review would be waived
subject to certification from the PIU that no changes to the standard document have been



- 44 -
made. Prior review of the evaluation and recommendations for contract awards would be
required for all ICB contracts.
134.         A general procurement notice has been published in the August 16 issue of
Development Business. This advertisement, together with subsequent advertisements
publicizing individual bidding opportunities, are also being published in a Lithuanian
newspaper and delivered to embassies of Bank member countries in Vilnius.
Disbursement
135.         Disbursement would be on the basis of 100 percent of the foreign expenditures
for goods and commodities. Withdrawal/disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan would be:
(a) through a Special Account (see following paragraph); (b) through a special commitment
procedure covering letters of credit; and (c) through direct payments by the World Bank on
behalf of the Borrower. Disbursements would be fully documented for all contracts of more
than US$300,000; statements of expenditure will be used for contracts below that amount.
Projected disbursements are US$35 million in FY93 and US$25 million in FY94. This
somewhat extended disbursement schedule is to accommodate the financing of some critical
spare parts (which are only now being specified), and also to take account of a slower pace of
disbursement projected for the commercial component. In the event that disbursement of this
component is unduly delayed, funds could be readily reallocated to the essential imports
component. The Loan Closing Date would be June 30, 1994.
136.        In order to ensure that funds are available for the project when needed, a
Special Account, administered by the PIU would be established in a foreign commercial bank
and operated and maintained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. An initial
deposit of US$10 million is proposed. No limit would be set on the size of payments which
may be made from the Account other than that imposed by the balance remaining in the
Account at any time.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
137.        The implementing agencies responsible for the day-to-day administration of
the various sector components financed under the loan, as well as the PIU, would each
maintain adequate records conceming all project activities. While the introduction of modern
accounting practices is only now beginning in Lithuania (para 86), the provision of an
external finance and disbursement specialist (para 127) will enable the PIU to maintain all
project accounts in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. These
accounts would be subject to an annual audit summarizing the financial status of project
operations, which would be submitted to the Bank for its review. Auditing would be required
for all expenditures financed under the project as well as for statements of expenditure and the
Special Account. Auditing would be performed by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
each govermnent fiscal year.
138.         Semi-annual progress reports according to agreed formats will be submitted
by the PIU to the Bank. ITese reports will also include progress in disbursement of funds
through the commercial channels as well as on overall progress in the technical assistance
program supported under the project. A Project Completion Report combining a report by
each sector Ministry/Procurement Agency and that of the PIU would be submitted to the Bank



- 45 -
by the PIU promptly after the completion of the project but in any event not later than six
months after the Loan Closing Date (vara 135). The completion report will include: (a) an
assessment of the execution and initial operation of the project; (b) the costs and benefits
derived or to be derived; (c) the performance of the Borrower and the World Bank and other
agencies involved, including their respective obligations and accomplishments; and (d) lessons
learned which may have applicability In future lending operations.
C. Agreenents Reached
139.         At negotiations, understandings acceptable to the Bank were reached on:
(a) the Memorandum on Economti Reform Policies outlining the scope, content and timing of
the Govermment's structural reform program (Annex 3); (b) the allocation of the loan between
the two import channels; (c) details of the PIU's staffing, responsibilities and relationship with
sector ministries and their procurement agencies; (d) terms of reference and sources of
financing for technical assistance in support of the economic reform program; (e) the
preliminary positive list of goods to be financed by the loan, and agreement on the criteria for
extending the list (Annex 4); and (f) reporting and auditing procedures.
D. Environmental Aspects
140.        The project would be consistent with Bank policy and follow accepted Bank
procedures. Given the nature of this loan, no environmental rating has been assigned.
Nevertheless, in developing the eligibility for imports to be financed under the loan, specific
provision has been made to ensure that the inclusion of any toxic or hazardous substances
would be only under conditions acceptable to the Bank. In particular, any agro-chemicals to
be financed will be procured, selectZ end used in accordance with Bank guidelines.
E. Benefits and Risks
141.         The proposed loan would maintain and increase capacity utilization,
production and consumption in vital sectors of the Lithuanian economy, which is in the
process of a far-reaching transformation. The imports to be financed by the loan would have
direct output and employment effects and would ensure minimum availability of certain
essential services and items, such as medicines and other health supplies. In some cases,
critical imports of spare parts could also preserve existing capital assets and prevent a
deterioration which would reduce service quality or reliability and require considerable future
investment. The technical assistance to be provided would assist the Government in
implementing its structural reform program, thereby benefiting the economy as a whole and
enhancing the supply response and medium-term economic performance.
142.         The primary risk to the Rehabilitation Loan is possible negative repercussions
due to the social tensions which are inevitably being created by the implementation of the
reform program. Lithuanians are, facing declining real wages, falling consumption, rising
unemployment, and the loss of the security and predictability of socialism, without immediate
corresponding gains from reform. These social tensions are already finding expression
through the political system and could, at some point, set back the reform program. The pace
of reform has already led to some dissension within the governing coalition and in the future,
parliamentary approval and support for some of the more difficult reform measures may be
delayed. Future Bank adjustment and investment lending, as well as targeted technical



- 46 -
assistance aimed it improving the availability and delivery of social services are expected to
play an important role in helping to sustain the reform process.
143.         Additional risks are related to the limited experience of the various institutions
involved including the procurement staff of the importing agencies and the staff of the
commercial banks. Bank-assisted training as well as specific technical assistance through the
Project Implementation Unit should reduce this risk.
VII. Recommendation
144.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
September 28, 1992
Atachments



47
A=ex'l
tWmmda W=Mtt ==A=  UMU                                                      1444 &of 2
=as s.no
=mum at ac"s smAteAc 2caftft----* -*--S. arowtu Rests Cs PM
*du-* pct-                      4---Cftm somalmat IXL"
11944   nat    33,"     un        43-73   ZS-ga   go-n       St"   -Un
U6.4     U41.6   L44.0  244.2  UGA    $"A                                        .4.9
V.2   U.5    V.S                                            -U.Z
Ud-UT                                                411.4   4M      42.1                                         -1.2
(49 -&L4 N=OA&%UMLi4l                               31.6   MS    3W                                               .3.4
34.1   29.6   34.4                                          -.U. 4
assemne 3#10M                                         -U.4  -10.4  -U.S
2044 URCML                                            U9.4   W.?   UI.S
Td%4 enuoultus                                      WS    72.2    U.$
SAV"o                                             43.6   S7.5   44.S
as"*"                                             UA    29.7    U.5
4wiss assaue zwvsatuo"                              22.1   33.3    29 S
ILZed ZWV"tmo"                                    22.1   30.8   24:I
cuallea sx SSO&                                    1.6              LA
2.4
act" bm"ut                                                    22.4    U.0
Cat     %an U" la*")
492" Dam""a ftud"t                                  11M    242"    2=7                                           -6.1
C. ftiu Zmaaes                                                                          -MMA%au4u U%"  CZ
"so    2946    lies   It"         2"a    %M         W23   73-104   80-it,   29"    L"t
comeamt itieft                                               U4.6   =.3  344.0                                            214.7
IM0140410 iftees cvS i33
&=Ilaft 401 Denater                94.3      94.;    to's  204,4-  lv.?
9. Mer bacata=                    43-73   73--44   80-91
09VOth R"" C' .31.4L.)
LAbu
2943    2973    1944    via    Ull
abate of uuz
AS-44ulzu a                                         21.4   U.6   17.0
ZDA"t-W                                             $4.6   3J.?   34.2
sezfto"                                             41.0   43.7   44.7
U4.0   U4.2   U4.0
2$47                    via    zolz                 2997    11144    zsas   ZI"      191'.
ZG"L Lvdzu m                                                                                                      2326.4 9449.0
UZ9.4 MA
Usl. md O"gv                                                                                                      It"A  UV$.*
CM*x eaw=ws smads                                                                                                  zm.O  43A.0         . .
CLUS utamled. se"S                                                                                                24*9.0 4W.Q
call-t so*"                                                                                                       3"TA   29&-Q
2"tLaus
md bratu S-
md lp. **so ob%&L-d St- letaligns s"wou
5"&*" C=). OSLSL%4 4&tA WO" VSUL44 SA
at Uads                                                                   d---WA Igues ja albz" md comus" to USS
valat %U Om" -Mdmnv mx-



'-.48-
Anex 1
IL  humv at  PON-a"V---.3sto t
L   tO    18U1 a* _                                Ct * U Ot      hl -
Z ~~~~~*                      *..   ..       ..     ..           Bleta.
Uaa.hma. OM                       ..    s4;;   858   635   881         1 30  3.. IBa. du- *ma. *a  Ot au-am     m
3mw-t6t avls .43, 88                                                                        43820*4   ot dinetL. too* and
mbeldIa. mi jsetdnd by the UthmAm
n   et ed. a                  ..      ..      .       ..     ..      ..           U          .
U.admdLa. (7)          ..  'U                   14    72       an1   8.  
ms*we1    *ViIa                           ..      ..      ..     ..          3. AU. om.8. data we valued at 
md -' S    r""- *   (lae&0) _44 ja
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~OeUl am                                          as_mm"U'a
_Ma'm WA. gel 14.  .                ..      ..    ...
2a} .m... 8.. Gd(m.. .n          .      .    ',.
$"WM   ..L go"  O.U2  e.s .1 .
Q=uLe -aI3et ab*uavn)              *: 46          .81   1.6    0.53   1.75
d au 11 On. s" so" an                                           ..
6P C2LUA aN. ..           3S . 2233   1*485  38141  831   80n
w._ctsa ::eaom  FU"                                o        a)*                                        26e CZ)-
.   eu.                                      .~13mU--.6     - -                   - @ et   Se..(-
2aIa 1a.m.                       44.2    45.7   48.4   ".S   ".9  "4.1                     ..    0.5     2      -3.1  M21.1
2ataLsmi1.uam                    47.2    48.1    4.1   53.    67.8   40.                   ..    7.?   23.6   -3.8    .7
:"u   al.mme (hal        m l.d')  1.0   -3.5   -3.7   -3.4   -3.$        .1               ..     ..      .



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page I of 1
LITHUANIA - REHABILITATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.      Time taken to prepare:                    Four months
2.      Project prepared by:                       Goverunent with assistance of IBRD
staff and consultants'
3.      First IBRD mission:                        March/April, 1992
4.      Appraisal mission:                         March/April, 1992
5.      Post-appraisal mission:                   June/July, 1992
6.      Negotiations:                              August 31, 1992
7.      Planned Board presentation:                October 22, 1992
8.      Planned effectiveness:                    November, 1992
9.      Expected project completion:               April, 1994
10.    Relevant SAR:                              None
If      Bank missins which visted Liuania in Mareh/April 1992 and June/July 1992, assid the Govarnment to idefy
and prpare the prtejt, and conurnently appaised it. Mison membes included the folowing Bank saff: Mr.
Andrew Ewg,  duuial tpecalt and task managr (EMTIE); Mr. Ulrich Zachau, country economust, and Ma.
Baubaa Lee, coury officer (EC3CI); Mr. Mioia Gupau, funcial coommist, and Mr. Erc Mans, conomist
(EMTIF); Mr. Donis Broun, health specialist (WMITH); Mr. David Mead, lawyer (LEGEC); Ms. Jacquine
Renkewitz, disbureame  specialist (LOAAP); and consltnts Ms. Conine Beauvoir (accouting), Mr. David Caplin
(health sector); Mr. Willian Myers (agniUltur  sector); Mr. Aturo Ros and Mr. George Hani (enegy sector);
Messrs. Murzo Melegai and Joe Sceare (pr ent advis). Mr. Laus Jrding, senior advisor (EC3DR)
asied the March/Apnl mission. Mr. Adil Kansa and Mr. Ruse Cheethan are reqsectively the managing
Division Chiaf and DepDtmt Director for the opn.



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 11
LIETUVOS RESPUBLIKOS VYRIAUSYBI
September 28, 1992
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President, Intemal,onal Bank for
Reconstuction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washingtow, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Preston:
The attached Memorandum on Ecornouiiu Reform  Policies oulines the
program of macroeconomic stabilization and systemic reforms of the Republic of
Uthuania. We request the World Bank to support this program with a Rehabilitation
Loan.
it Is our intentlon to implement the program described in the attached
memorandum in order to achieve a rapid resumption ol economic growth within a
sustainable macroeconomic framework. Given the complexity of the transition to a
market-oriented economy, It Is Inevitable that there wilt be considerable uncertainly
assocated with the implementaton of this program. Adjustments and correctiv
actions will likeiy be required, We intend to review these changes with the World
Bank, as well as actions taken in the area of systemic reformns, In order to monitor the
progress of the reform program.
Yours sincerely,
Aleksandras Abi3ala
Prime Minister
Republic of LUthuania
Attachment: Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies of 3eptembor 1992



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 11
LfTHUANIA - REHABILITATION LOAN
Memorandum on Economic Reform PoHldes
I. Introduction
1.           As the first country to re-establish its independence from the Former Soviet Union
(FSU), Lithuania has already made substantial progress in implementing a comprehensive and far-
reaching economic reform program aimed at reorienting its economy from a centrally planned to a
decentralized market system. In particular, the crucial program of privatizing a large share of state
enterprises, housing, and agricultural property is well advanced.
2.           The reforms have started in an unfavorable economic environment. Lithuania remains
heavily dependent on the countries of the FSU as sources of imported inputs and for export markets
and continues to rely, until October 1, 1992 on the ruble as a medium of exchange. The
disintegration of the FSU, the breakdown of the centralized trade regime, and the resulting political
and economic instability and disruptions of trade within the ruble area have led to a substantial drop
of output in 1990 and 1991. This year, output is projected to fall by more than 20 percent. Avoiding
further trade disruptions will be of utmost Importance.
3.           Although Lithuania's price reform is at an advanced stage of implementation, the
prices of oil and certain other traded goods have not yet reached world market levels. The
completion of price reform and the shift to world market prices, especially for energy products, will
involve a sharp deterioration in Lithuania's terms of trade and an initial additional rise in the general
level of prices. It will require major adjustments by the household, industrial, agriculture, and
transport sectors and result in the restructuring and possible bankruptcy of many of Lithuania's
enterprises. This in turn will weaken the financial sector, which already suffers from a weak asset
position. At the outset of the adjustment process, real incomes will fall and, with the drop in output
resulting from the disruptions of trade and enterprises adjusting to new relative prices and patterns of
demand, unemployment will rise. The consequent expenditures to provide an adequate social safety
net will impose a major fiscal burden.
4.           To stabilize the economy, support the restructuring and increase the competitiveness
of its various sectors, and restore output growth, the Government has adopted a comprehensive
program of macroeconomic stabilization and strucwual reforms, which is outtined in this
Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies. The Memorandum begins with a review of our policies
and programs regarding price reform, macroeconomic management, and external economic relations.
Our discussion of these issues has been kept relatively brief. A full discussion of our program in
these areas will be found in the memorandum we have submitted to the Intrnational Monetary Fund.
The remainder of this Memorandum focuses on the strucural and institutional reforms that we intend
to undertake in the areas of enterprise reform, competition, commercial banking reform, social safety
net, and economic maragement, all of which are aimed at facilitating a successfl transition to a
market economy.



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 11
II. Prices, Macroeconomic Management and International
Economic Relations
Price Reform
5.           Although most prices have been decontrolled, we recognize the importance of
proceeding quickly to eliminate as many of the remaining price subsidies as possible, both to reduce
strains on the budget and to provide correct price incentives to households and enterprises. Price
controls have been removed on all goods and services other than energy products, except for a small
number (primarily rents and other municipal services, utility services, communications, public
transportation, and some alcoholic beverages and tobacco products) that can be justified on the basis
of monopolistic conditions or social grounds. We have liberalized all procurement prices paid to
farmers, and agricultural goods will remain free of price controls. Agricultural subsidies will be
limited to amounts that can be accommodated within the government budget.
6.           The question of prices in the energy sector is particularly important given the
potentially unsustainable budgetary costs with existing subsidies, the importance of energy as a crucial
input into nearly all production processes, and the current high energy intensity of Lithuania's
economy with the concomitant need to encourage energy conservation. For those products where
prices will eventually be determined by market forces, consumer prices are already being adjusted,
and will continue to be adjusted as needed in the future to cover the full costs of production, imports,
and distribution, plus depreciation and a reasonable profit margin. By January 1, 1993, the prices for
these products will be fully liberalized expect in cases where regulation remains necessary due to
monopolistic price setting. The prices of gas, heat, and electricity (natural monopolies) will continue
to be regulated. They are being adjusted in stages and will continue to be adjusted as necessary so
that, on average over different groups of users and times of day, they fully cover costs (as defined
above). By March 1, 1993, a program will be adopted for installing utility meters and phasing out
remaining subsidies on the household use of gas, heat and electricity during 1993.
Incomes Policy
7.           The Government is committed to the liberalization of wages and has legalized
collective bargaining at enterprises that are not financed directly from the budget. Nevertheless,
given that the adverse shift in the external terms of trade implies an unavoidable loss of purchasing
power for the country as a whole, and that Lithuania has been experiencing a wage and price spiral
that we want to bring down sharply, the Government is also of the view that the success of its
stabilization efforts hinges critically on the introduction of a temporary incomes policy. Key elements
of this policy include a wage freeze for September and October, 1992, and the introduction of wage
guidelines thereafter. Under these guidelines, state enterprises and budgetary organizations will be
asked to keep average wage increases during specified periods below certain uniform ceilings. The
ceilings will be established on the basis of changes in the consumer price index, taking into account
Lithuania's loss in real purchasing power resulting from the deterioration of its terms of trade and the
target path for inflation under the program.



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 1I
Fical Policy
S.           Further fiscal restraint is central to the success of the stabilization and reform
program. Through a combination of changes in government spending and tax policies we intend to
keep the general government budget in balance for the remainder of 1992 and will continue to aim at
keeping it in balance during the first half of 1993. By January 1, 1993, we will review civil service
staffing and renumeration policy with a view to developing a program and timetable for eliminating
jobs that are no longer necessa'.y in institutions financed from the general government budget. Net
credit from the banking systen. to the general government will be confined to smoothing seasonal
shortfalls in budgetary revenues relative to expenditures. In the medium term, we are committed to
supporting structural fiscal reforms aimed at keeping the evolution of public expenditures in line with
the evolution of tax revenues plus non-inflationary (non-bank) financing. The main objectives are to
strengthen the tax system to make it more elastic and efficient as well as public expenditure
management, including the processes of budget planning, formulation, and execution. Recognizing
that local authorities must be able to plan investments and other expenditures on the basis of projected
revenues, we will act to complete the set of rules specifying the shares of various tax revenues to be
allocated to local authorities.
Currency Reform and Monetary Policy
9.           The introduction of a new currency is necessary for the stabilization of Lithuania's
economy and the successful implementation of our reform program. The Government and the Bank
of Lithuania intend to implement currency reform prior to, or at the start of, the requested financial
assistance program, in close consultation with staff of the International Monetary Fund. However,
the need to act quickly has led us to implement this reform in two stages. From October 1, 1992 the
coupons (talonas) now circulating with the ruble will be made the sole legal tender in Lithuania. This
is a transitional step prior to the introduction of the litas, which will take place at an appropriate time
in consultation with the International Monetary Fund staff. Since a two-tier banking system is
essential for the successful introduction of a new currency and effective monetary policy, we have
taken actions to separate the commercial banking operations from the Bank of Lithuania, and to
ensure that the new organizational structure of the central bank will enable it to perform its monetary
policy and prudential supervision functions effectively.
10.          Monetary policy will be formulated with a view to providing domestic credit at a rate
that is consisfent with expected economic activity and a target path for inflation. A refinancing
facility will be established to enable the Bank of Lithuania to provide credit to individual banks, with
the inrest rate for refinancing credit being determined by auctioning the credit. A second facility
through which banks could borrow to meet their reserve requirements at a relatively high level will
also be introduced. In the medium term, our objective is to make interest rates the main instrument
for allocating financial resources in the economy. The interest rates of commercial and sta-owned
banks wIll be liberalized, although the central bank will remain watchful of the spread between
lending and deposit rates and exercise prudential supervision to discourage banks from excessive risk
taing. To facilitate the eventual transition to indirect monetary control, the authorities plan to seek
technical assistance from the International Monetary Fund during theJft half of 1993 to develop a
market in Government securities.



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 11
Inenainal Economic Relations
11.         In the transition to a market economy, the removal of exchange and trade restrictions
is a central part of our strategy for introducing a rational structure of relative prices, alleviating
supply bottlenecks, exposing domestic producers to import competition, and strengthening their export
orientation. By the time of completion of withdrawal from the ruble area (October 1, 1992), the
Government will have determined and implemented an exchange rate regime in consultation with
International Monetary Fund staff. Also, by October 1, 1992 we will introduce prudential standards
for limiting the foreign currency exposure of domestic banks.
12.          Lithuania does not currently, and will not, impose quotas or licensing requirements
for imports and will not introduce quantitative restrictions on imports except for purposes of national
security or health. We intend to remove all quotas and licensing requirements for exports by
November 1, 1992, except those for certain energy products and timber of local origin. All remaining
quantitative restrictions, except those on exports of products subject to foreign import controls or
administered prices, will be removed by January 1, 1993, unless the restrictions are deemed by the
Government to be necessary for reasons of security or health. For the limited number of products
that require export restrictions in association with controls on prices, export taxes will be imposed
instead of quotas wherever possible.
13.          The Government intends to conduct Lithuania's international economic relations on a
nondiscriminatory basis in line with maltilateral trading principles prevailing in the world economy.
We recognize the need for continued close economic relations with the FSU and are committed to
removing remiaining interstate trade barriers, promoting direct trading between enterprises, and
reducing the direct involvement of the government in trade relations. By January 1, 1993, we will
discontinue or sharply limit the coverage of bilateral trade and payments agreements and phase out
essentially all remaining privileges granted to enterprises that are suppliers to the state. Lithuania,
Latvia, and Estonia have agreed to form a Baltic Customs Union, and we plan to prepare an action
plan for implementing it, in cooperation with Estonia and Latvia, and in the context of Lithuania's
general future trade relations and tariff regime.
HII. Structural Reform and EconomIc Management
Enterprise Reform
14.          Rapid privatization of the vast majority of enterprises is an integral part of our policy
to transform the Lithuanian economy into a market based system. We have made considerable
progress in the implementation of various aspects of privatization, and we are continuously adjusting
and improving privatization procedures to maintain the momentum and to overcome obstacles as they
emerge. At the same time, recognizing that it will take time to fully achieve all privatization
objectives, we are taking measures to enhance the efficiency of enterprises remaining in state hands
and to complete the legal framework for a competitive environment.
15.          Prvatlton. Privatization of state-owned housing has been one of the principal
objectives of our program. By early 1992, applications had been received for the privatization of
some 517,000 housing units. As of June 15, 1992, 63 percent of this stock (327,000 units) had been



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 11
transferred to private ownership, in most cases to the current resident. We anticipate that this process
will be completed by no later than the end of 1992. - At the same time we are moving forward with
the more complicated process of privatizing land. About 20 percent of restitution claims for land
have been settled and we are proceeding as rapidly as possible, while maintaining the principles of
transparency and equity. Most restrictions on the sale and resale of non-agricultural land have now
been removed, and we intend to remove most of the remaining restrictions after the introduction of
the new currency.
16.          Privatization of small business units has also progressed at a satisfactory pace. By
mid-June, 1300 units had been sold through auction, at average prices several times higher than their
book value. We will take measures to remain on schedule in privatizing essentially all of the 1652
units currently proposed for this method of privatization by the end of 1992. In view of the success
of this process, we have expanded the stock of units to be sold by auction by raising the maximum
value of enterprises which can be auctioned. In addition, we are further increasing the stock through
the ongoing break-up of larger enterprises. Auction sales have been constrained by the restrictions
placed on the amount of vouchers and cash which citizens can use in auctions; we have already lifted
these limitations for enterprises that could not be sold in a first auction and intend to remove all cash
quota restrictions as soon as the new currency is introduced.
17.          The privatization of large state-owned enterprises through he public offering of shares
is also well underway and 593 of the 1091 large enterprises included in the current phase of the
privatization program now have, on average, 68 percent of their shares in private hands. We are,
however, finding that there is limited demand for shares in some of the larger enterprises, particularly
those which were formerly 'all-union" enterprises relying on inputs and markets in the FSU.
Initiatives to address this problemn include: (a) the systematic break-up, where feasible, of the larger
enterprises into smaller units which are easier to sell, according to guidelines issued earlier this year;
(b) easing of most restrictions on privatization to foreign investors in June 1992, except for a small
list of reserved activities (such as weapons production or the operation of certain infrastructural
networks); and (c) the introduction of a wider variety of privatization techniques to encourage further
domestic and foreign private investment. To this end, by November 1, 1992, we plan to prepare a
project to undertake demonstrations using a number of additional techniques.
18.          Stwte Enterprise Management. As stipulated in the Law on State Enterprises, a
considerable effort has been made to create independent, commercially-oriented entities from previous
state-owned conglomerates and large enterprises. By early 1992, such enterprises were made
independent of their founding ministries, with financial autonomy. A study will be completed by the
end of 1992, with World Bank assistance, to re-examine the present organizational arrangements for
state enterprise management and make recommendations for modifications which would facilitate
improved performance. We have submitted to Parliament a law to introduce new accounting
procedures meeting internationally accepted standards. Regulations and accompanying institutional
arrangements to implement these accounting standards will be established by the end of 1992 and
training will be provided to make the system fully operational by year-end 1993. All direct subsides
for current expenditures from the state budget to enterprises from all levels of government (including
implicit subsidies through the banking system) to amounts consistent with a fiscally sound strategy for
hardening the financial constraints on enterprises. In the same way, by January, 1993, we will
design and make operational a system for monitoring inter-enterprise arrears (both domestic and inter-
republican) and restraining these arrears by convertfng to temporary measures such as prepayment



- 56 -
Annex3
Page 7 of 11
schemes. Finally, with assistance from the World Bank, we will by early 1993 begin to undertake
thorough studies of selected sectors and large enterprises in order to identify their medium term
restructuring needs, emphasizing Lithuania's potential to expand production of exports.
Competition Policy and Legal and Institutional Framework for Commercial Activites
19.          Demonopolization. Many enterprises in Lithuania, inherited from the former Soviet
tegime, were subject to heavy vertical and horizontal integration. The process of breaking up these
enterprises, to facilitate the competitive practices typical of market economies, has begun. Large
industrial 'combinats" have been broken up into financially autonomous entities, which are beginning
to seek opportunities for the purchase of inputs and the sale of outputs outside their former
organization. We will continue to break up other large enterprises in two ways: (a) on a case by
case basis at the respective branch ministry, according to certain general criteria; and (b) in
conjunction with privatization, as stipulated by law and decree. A Competition Law, defining unfair
competition and monopoly practices and identifying penalties for this behavior, has been submitted to
Parliament. We have requested technical assistance for the further development of accompanying
regulations and the evaluation of alternative institutional arrangements to implement and enforce the
law. We intend to put appropriate regulations and institutional arrangements in place as soon as
possible after the passage of the competition law.
20.          Promoting New Private Investment and Commercial Activiy. We have made a
concerted effort to promote new private activity. Legislation has been enacted to permit domestic
private activity and foreign investment. As part of the small privatization-program, we continue to
sell separable activities (such as workshops) and moveable assets (such as vehicles and equipment) of
large enterprises. In addition, following the recent issue of a decree requiring the contting out of
public services, we will make systematic efforts to implement these measures at the level of the
central and local governments as well as the various government agencies. We intend to intensify our
ongoing efforts systematically to disseminate information about relevant legislation, regulation and
programs, and sources of external and domestic assistance.
21.          Legal and Insitutonal Framework for Commercia Activies. A bankruptcy law has
been drafted, with input from OECD experts, and has been submitted to Parliament. We will
intensify our efforts to develop accompanying regulations and strengthen the juridical infrastructure
necessary to enforce this legislation, with the objective that it be operational soon after the adoption of
the law. More generally, we intend systematically to review by mid-1993, and to eventually modify
as required, all major laws governing transactions (such as transfer of property and sales, credit, and
collateral transactions), with the intention of further encouraging private sector entry and facilitating
commercial activity. While most restrictions on foreign private investment have now been removed,
we recognize that there remain deficiencies in the present Foreign Investment Law, despite
amendments that simplify reporting and registration procedures, allow 100 percent foreign ownership
and extend land leases to 99 years. With the assistance of the Foreign Investment Advisory Services
Group of the World Bank, we are undertaking a diagnostic study to assist in designing ways to
promote such investments. Based on the results of this study, we intend to prepare and propose to
Parliament further amendments to the Foreign Investment Law and accordingly modify the procedures
for foreign investments by Aprll 1, 1993.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 11
Srnghening t*e Commeral Bankdng System
22.          Price reform, privatization, and measures to ensure open international and domestic
competition are the fundamental components of our structural reform program to restore sustainable
growth. However, a stategy built on these elements cannot be successful if capital does not flow
effectively to the most dynamic sectors. 'Me Lithuanian banking system has already been
substially reorganized over the past two years, now comprising about 20 commercial banks in
addition to the Bank of Lithuania and the state-owned Savings Bank and Agricultral bank. But
furher reforms of the financial sectors are essenti in a number of areas (bank supervision and
regution; accuti, auditing, and payments systems; financial restructuring of the banking system)
to ensure that domestic and incoming foreign capital is allocated efficiendy. The Bank of Lithuania
will seek technical assistance in these areas as needed.
23.          Banking Law and Prudenta Reguadon and Sapervslon. As an essenti
precondition for effective monetary policy and a stable, well-functioning banking system, banking
laws will be modified as necessary, prior to the introduction of the new currency, to provide the Bank
of Lithuania with the appropriate authority to regulate and supervise banks. Work has been started on
proedures and reporting requirements for off-site banking supervision and monitoring bank credit,
and by Ocober 1, 1992, a new system of reportng by commercial and state-owned bans for these
puposes will be operational. During thefir half of 1993, institutional arragements will be made
and training programs undertaken to start implementing on-site banking supervision.
24.          Accounting, Auditing, and Payments System. By Januy 1, 1993, we wil introduce
enabling regulations for new accutng, auditing and payment systems confirming to in ational
standards. Also, a new plan of accouns will be Implemented for the Bank of Lithuania, and a
detailed plan and timetable will be developed for modernizing the domestic payments and clearing
systemL During the first half of 1993, to implement the new accounting, auditing, and payment
system, staff wIll be enrolled in appropriate waining programs and the necessary instiiona
arngements will be made.
25.          Banidng Sector Retutuing. The Government recognizes the fragile financial
sitation of the large state-owned banks, in particular the Savings Bans and the Agriculual Bank, as
a potena source of monetary instability. In order not to jeopardize stabilization and the success of
the curenrcy reform, and to provide a sound basis for the medium-term development of a baking
system that can efficiently allocate capital in a growing economy, we are committed to developing,
with technical assistance from the World Bank, a coherent plan and timetable for the financia
res uing of the existng banking system by te beginning of 1993, including an appraisal of inter-
enteise arrears and possible approaches for dealing with dtem. Mmis plan will be based on an
exminto of all available options and an evaluation of their impact on the budget, the banking
system, and the privatzation progrm. Various appraches tt will be considered include the (ful or
partial) liquidation, restaucring, and recapitalization of banks, the creation of a special govenment
agency to take over the nonperforming assets of the banking system, and the issuamce of govment
bonds or use of privization revenues to cover them. The plan will also identify ways of adapng
the banking system to the needs of a market economy and, in particular, inceasing privae ownership
of banls.



- 58 -
Antnex3
Page 9 of 11
Social Protection and the Social Safety Net
26.          The ongoing reform process will inevitably involve social costs due to inflation and
rising unemployment associated with the restructuring of production. We will take measures to
ensure that the costs of adjustment do not fall disproportionately on the most vulnerable groups, such
as children and the elderly, while at the same time providing incentives to facilitate the process of
labor force adjustment, encouraging productive employment, and keeping the budgetary costs of the
social safety net manageable.
27.          Overall Design and Financing of the Social Safety Net System. We intend, by
January 1, 1993, to determine the general priorities and develop a plan for the overall medium-term
design and financing of the social safety net system (pensions, unemployment benefits, family
benefits, sick pay benefits, social assistance benefits) within the general government's budgetary
constraints, based on an evaluation of the economic, social, and budgetary implications of various
options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios (including in particular different
assumptions or projections about output growth, changes in real wages and the rate of unemployment,
and tax revenues). To provide local authorities with increased incentives for the effective
management of local employment and social assistance offices and the efficient administration of
benefits, we will examine the possibilities of replacing the current system of block grants from the
central government budget to local authorities with a system of matching grants.
28.          Unemployment Benefits and Employment Programs. Although unemployment is still
low in Lithuania, the risk of a rapid rise in the number of unemployed in the near future is
considerable. To cope with the resulting budgetary costs, by December 1, 1992, we will prepare and
propose legislative changes as necessary to introduce a simplified (possibly flat-rate) structure of
unemployment benefits, along with appropriately modified eligibility criteria (e.g. excluding in
particular new entrants, such as school leavers, and re-entrants into the labor market). We will
regularly review and, as unemployment projections require, strengthen the staffing and equipment of
local employment offices (including, for example, plans for expansion of offices to areas likely to be
hit hardest by unemployment). By the beginning of 1993, we will examine and evaluate various
options and design a system of retraining and other proactive labor market policies, with a specified
level of financing, more secure from crowding-out by expenditures on unemployment benefits or
other social programs.
29.          Pension Benefits. Since the budgetary sustainability of the current earnings-related
pension scheme is doubtful, we will, by November 1, 1992, prepare a plan for the quick introduction
of a simplified flat-rate structure of pension benefits on a transitory basis, if this is needed as an
extraordinary measure to prevent budgetary imbalances and reach the stabilization targets of our
reform program. By January 1, 1993, we will, as part of the overall design of the social benefit
system, prepare a comprehensive medium-term pension reform plan, based on a full costing of
options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios over an extended period of time. We
will also evaluate options for establishing private pension schemes within an appropriate legal
fiamework.
30.          Sodal Assistance. Central to the design of the social safety net is the design of a
minimal but realistic poverty level, which will become the benchmark for all social assistance



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 11
benefits. By the beginning of 1993-with the technical assistance of the World Bank-we will clarify
the methodology and complete the definition of the poverty line, linked to an index of prices for a
basic subsistence level consumption basket, with provisions for its regular revision to maintain its
value in real terms. On this basis, we will develop recommendations and initiate any necessary
legislative measures for establishing a viable social assistance program aimed at assuring that
individuals receive payments to bring their incomes at least to the poverty line (as distinct from the
current minimum level of living). By early 1993, we will design and start implementing an effective
means-testing system for channeling social benefits to the most vulnerable groups of the population,
with the objective that the system be fully operational in the second half of 1993. Initially, for
administrative ease and to speed up the implementation of the system, there may be a need to
combine the definition of a limited number of target groups (which would be automatically eligible
without means testing) with means-testing for others. Nevertheless, it is our intention to move
towards the universal application of means-testing in the medium term. To help facilitate the
implementation of the social assistance benefit system, we will, by the end of 1992, take the necessary
steps to strengthen the staffing and equipment of the network of local social assistance offices.
Economic Management
31.          We recognize that the successful implementation of our reform program depends on
having in place the institutions and capacity for public sector management to guide and monitor the
reform process as well as appropriate legal and institutional infrastructure within which the private
sector can operate. At a general level, this includes strengthening the institutional framework for
policy development and mechanisms for coordination among the various economic ministries and the
Bank of Lithuania. Without further progress in this and other areas, the establishment of new private
ventures, the inflow of foreign capital, and the supply response would be delayed.
32.          Statistical System. The Government is aware of weaknesses in the present statistical
infrastructure and institutional framework for monitoring economic developments and evaluating and
coordinating policy. We attach high priority to providing adequate staffing and training in our
ministries and central bank and implementing mechanisms for data collection and compilation so that
national accounts, price, monetary, fiscal, and balance of payments statistics become available on a
timely basis. To this end, we will prepare and propose to adopt as soon as possible a statistics law
that will provide the necessary legal authority for data collection, while clarifying responsibilities for
data compilation and evaluation.
33.        , Recording and Management of External Borrowing and Assistance. A unit within the
Ministry of Finance has been given the responsibility for exten  debt recording and reporting. By
Novenber 1, 1992, we intend to centralize all inflows of official foreign grants and government
borrowing through the accounts of the Ministry of Finance. By the same time, we Intend to put in
place a system for monitoring, recording, and reporting these flows, as well as the borrowing by state
enterprises, consistent with the reporting requirements of the Werld Bank.
34.          Public Investment Program. In anticipation of a resumed public investment program,
we plan to establish, by early 1993, a mechanism to set priorities, establish Government project
evaluation criteria, and appraise project proposals for public investment. By mid-1993, the
Govermnent will, as part of the overall medium-term budgetary planning prepare the first version of a



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 11 of 11
rolling three-year public investment program, which-unlike multi-year plans in the past-would focus
on: (a) establishing appropriate sectoral policy frameworks; (b) setting relative public investment
priorities amnong and within sectors; and (c) public investment requirements and programs rather than
enterprise investments, which would be handled by the banking system.
Vilnius
September 1992



- 61 -
page 1 of 2
LUT ANIA - REEABILITATION LOAN
Goods Eligible for Bank Financing
A. Negadve lst of goods which would not be financed
1.           No withdrawal from the loan account under either component of the loan shall
be made in respect of:
(a)    Expendiures for goods to be supplied under a contract which a national or
nterntional fianing institution or any other financing agency shall have
financed or agreed to finance;
(b)    Expendites for goods Ibended for a military or para-military purpose or for
luxury consumption; and
(c)    Expenditures for items in the following groups or sub-groups of the United
Nations Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3:
Group      Sub-group         Descriptdon
112                          Alcoholic beverages
121                          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                          Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                          Radioactive and associated materials
667                          Pears, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
718        718.1             Nuclear reactors and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
mLclear reactors
728        728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
897        897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(uicluding set gems)
971                          Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates.



- 62 -
Annex
page 2 of 2
B. Positive List of essential imports
The Government and the Bank have agreed on a positive list of essential
imports in three sectors:
(a)    Critically needed medical supplies in the health sector, including vaccines,
anti-infectious drugs, cardiac and vascular drugs, anti-neoplastic drugs, other
drugs, blood control supplies and medical consumables;
(b)   Inputs. to maintain production in the energy sector including lubricants,
refinery catalysts, chemicals and resins, boiler tubes, tansformer and turbine
oil, and fire-resistant cable; and
(c)   Inputs to maintain production in the agricultural sector including feed grain,
protein meal, veterinary medicines, agrochemicals, and raw materials for the
dairy industry.
C. Criteria for expanding the positive list
The goods on the positive lists have been selected by mutual agreement
between the Government and the Bank on the basis of their economic priority. However the
purpose of pre-identification is not to centrally allocate resources, but to speed up the process
of procurement and arrival of the goods for the agreed priorities. The list of priorities is
therefore not a closed one and may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement,
ptovided the following criteria are applied:
(a)    To be eligible, goods must be procured by public sector agencies for the
maintenance of economic activities in key sectors (for instance, spare parts or
pieces of equipment for the maintenance of essential services, raw materials or
intermediate goods for the production of essential goods); and
(b)    To ensure speedy procurement, preference will be given to: (i) goods of a
commodity nature, which can be described easily without long or complex
technical specifications, and which can be procured from several sources
under large contracts; and (ii) goods which are available off-the-shelf without
lengthy delivery times.
D. Goods to be procured through the commercial channel
It is expected that the commercial component of the loan will be used
exclusively for the import of goods procured by competitive enterprises in the commercial
sector. It is assumed that these enterprises will follow normal commercial procurement
practices, but to the extent that these are not widely utilized, international shopping according
to the Bank's procurement guidelines will be encouraged. Procurement will be done directly
by the importers and will follow the laws of the country.



- 63 -
Annex S
page 1 of 3
ITHANIA - REHABILrTATION LOAN
Technical Assistance
1.           Technical assistance requirements for implementation of both the
Rehabilitation Loan itself and the Government's reform program have been identified. Terms
of Reference have been prepared for these tasks. In some cases, financing from grant sources
has been secured, and in others the Bank is assisting the Government in securing such
financing.
2.           The tasks which have been identified to ensure that core techrical assistana
requirements are being addressed are the following:
(a) Procurement Disbursement and Accounting. Technical assistance and training
would be required to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to carry out its finctions,
which include the following: (i) reviewing proposals for procurement of imported goods and
consultant services to ensure that they meet the criteria and objectives of the loan and that
funds are available form the loan proceeds to cover their costs; (ii) advising participating
entities and their agents on acceptable methods and procedures of procurement and payment
for specific contracts; (ii) establishing and maintaining records of expenditures based on
copies of signed contracts and other documents as may be required; (iv) verifying payments
due under contracts and preparing and processing the applications to the Bank for loan
withdrawals; and (v) coordinating all other actions and decisions among the participating
entities and the procuring agencies to ensure timely and effective project implementation.
(b) Asistance in Transacting Demonstration Privatizations. Substantial progress has
been made in privatizing enterprises in Lithuania through auctions and public offerings, but
sales have been limited to these methods and to domestic purchasers. The Government has
recently identified a large number of medium and large enterprises to be sold to hard currency
investors through various techniques, and technical assistance has been requested to launch
demonstration privatizations. A semi-residential consulting team with investment banking and
enterprise sales experience in Eastern and Central Europe would provide support to the
Department of Privatization in the Ministry of Economics to enable the sales of 10-20
enterprises. The objectives are to undertake the 'demonstration* sales and to train staff to
carry out future sales. Specific tasks for demonstration privatizations include: (i) carrying
out operational and financial audits; (ii) assessing the necessity of valuations, where
appropriate, performing valuations; (iii) preparing the prospectus for privatization; (iv)
identifying prospective buyers; (v) defining procedures for each sale and carrying out sales;
and (vi) drafting and negotiating all contracual arrangements. Training staff of the Ministry
of Economics would include: (J) seminars on different techniques for privatization and their
relevance to the Lithuanian case; (ii) seminars on methods for valuation of assets including an
assessment of their costs and benefits; (iii) involving staff in actual and various privatization
procedures; and (iv) instructing staff in competitive procurement of consultants including an
assessment of different contractual arrangements.



- 64 -
Annex 5
page 2 of 3
(c) Program to Introduce Imoroved Methods of State Enterprise Management.
Following an initial period of enterprise autonomy, the need to clarify respective roles in state
enterprise management to ensure long term viability of these enterprises has become apparent.
The objecive of the proposed technical assistance is to establish appropriate arrangements for:
(i) exercising the state's ownership rights and (ii) improving corporate governance with a view
to realizing fin-ancial discipline and improving performance. Jointly with the staff of the
Ministry of Economics, the consultant would: (i) review existing methods of exercising
ownership; (ii) develop proposals to effectively improve this role; and (ii) develop proposals
for regulatory and control roles of the government as distinct from the ownership role. The
development of a corporate governance system of state enterprises will involve two tasks: (i)
reviewing procedures for appointment and remuneration of the external board of directors and
the internal management team, including recommendations for improving the incentives
systems, and (ii) developing a reporting system for board of directors to government
authorities on the performance of enterprises under their guidance. The reporting system
would include financial performance indicators as well as economic efficiency, productivity,
and technological performance.
(d) Program of Initial Studies of Key Sectors and Large Unprofitable Enterprises.
Man- ojf the largest enterprises in Lithuania are proving difficult to privatize in their present
t#. The Government, as owner, will need to provide strategic conceptual input to the long
cam restructuring of these remaining large state owned enterprises to mitigate the sharp
reduction in industrial output and to avoid further fimancial distress. A program of subsector
studies should be developed with a view to identifying the relative strengths and weaklesses
of the Lithuanian industry in a competitive European setting. International consultants jointly
with the staff of the Ministry of Economics should undertake such a program and disseminate
study results to the widest possible audience. This should not be a planning exercise, but an
overview of activities and enterprises in major subsectors and their likely competitiveness
based on domestic and regional markets, likely competitors and enterprise size and
technology. TIereafter, a program of restructuring planning for critical cases should be
undertaken. The purpose is to demonstrate an effective approach to contain losses and at the
same time develop a set of recommendations on how problems can best be addressed.
Immediate restructuring proposals should be based on least cost options with minimal
investments but with emphasis on management practices, adjustment of product mix etc. In
addition, a long-term strategic plan for each company needs to be developed.
(e) Proposal for an Advisor to fte Competition Agency. A systematic approach to
implement demonopolization and competition policies needs attention. The Government has
requested technical assistance to implement and enforce the Competition Law. An advisor
will work with the director of the Competition Agency to (i) elaborate on policies including
technical and institutional aspects; (ii) demonopolize selected industries; and (iii) build the
capacity within the Government to carry out such policies. The advisor, together with agency
staff, would review cuent legislation to define government intervention in areas of
demonopolization and anti-trust regulation both in the private and state-owned sectors.
Specific tasks include: criteria for identifying priority subsectorslindustries for systematic
demonopolization; prioritization of subsectors and development of an approach to



- 65 -
Annex S
page 3 of 3
demonopolize a number of major subsectors; identification of natural monopolies to remamn
subject to regulations; and determination of need and development of recommendation to
break up non-monopoly,--multi-plant enterprises. The team would propose appropriate
modifications to improve institutional effectiveness such as delineation of responsibilities of
the Competition Agency and of branch ministries, departments and the Ministry of
Economics; and an assessment of the capacity of supporting institutions to enforce
compliance. The team should recommend amendments and propose regulations for
implementation. Finally the advisor would assist in the identification and acbtal break up of
about five enterprises based on recommended policies.
(f) Restructuring of the Commercial Banking System. The Government and the Bank
of Lithuania seek to improve the efficiency of Lithuanian financial institutions by:
strengthening their financial positions; regulating activities of the financial markets to ensure
protection of depositors; and increasing the scope, diversity and quality of financial products
and services. technical assistance has been requested to assist in these areas. Initially, a
study would provide a plan for inple!enting the restructuring of the banking system, which
would consider the Government's strategy for bank reform, the macro policy framework, the
legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework, and the clientele of the banking sector,
taking into consideration parallel reforms in the enterprise sector. The study would analyze
the current situation and make recommendations for: (i) required measures to effect necessary
improvements to the present system; (i) removing obstacles and constraints facing
implementation; (iii) methods to implement proposed measures with a timetable covering the
next 1-2 years; and Qiv) the possible contribution of external assistance to the bank reform
program. Important measures include strengthening of prudential supervision, improvement
of the payment system, licensing, and introduction of internationally accepted accounting
standards, and recommendations to reduce or eliminate state ownership (both enterprise and
governent).
(g) Advisors for the Reform of Social Assistance Proams. The Government has
requested technical assistance to help define a poverty line, to develop and implement a
system of means testing, and to strengthen local social assistance offices. For the first task,
external advisors, Ministry of Social Security and the Department of Statistics would conduct
a household survey and an extensive study to define a realistic poverty line linked to a price
index for basic consumption basket, with provisions for revisions to maintain real value. The
second task would be to develop and Implement a system to identify individuals whose
incomes fall below the poverty line and target them for social assistance. A simplified system
could be devised on a temporary basis initially to deal with the problem until the final system
is operational. Finally, it will be necessary to train personnel in local social assistance offices
to peform proper means-testing and screening of candidates.



IBRD 23707
mme             0                                                                     iw-l - ICfetinoo  Phm_e  .W14 jgo,* 
LATVIA TV I             2 A-- -    W
rzurbarkasTi. Wid ony% 
Baltic                                                                                                        bn  onai.
X oKrefingrd   7\w-
R S  SEfLETE   BELARUS
~~~ToKlin;-eavilki  reo    oyn RA RA IVI
Ukm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GC                                                I IN tJT1OA H OUN<IDARS
RUSSIARUSSIA                -1%    v~   X    -                    t I jh  V   -MUNROA                   SEM0
b <|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lkma                    Pu                      NAONL CAIA ND<ELARUS



