Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15650
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITHUANIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(LN.3524-LT)
MAY 24, 1996
Country Operations Division I
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1996)
Currency Unit = Lita
US$ 1.00 = 4 Litas
Lita 1 = US$ 0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI         Consumer Price Index
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
EFSAP       Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project
FSUB        Former Soviet Union and Baltic Republics
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IMF         International Monetary Fund
JEXIM       Export Import Bank of Japan
MERP        Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PIP         Public Investment Program
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PRL         Power Rehabilitation Loan
PSD         Private Sector Development
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA         Stand-by Arrangement
SSNP        Social Safety Net Project
VAT         Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE  .............
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ...........................................   ii
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................   1
A. Project Objectives ...........................................   1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .................................  2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............  5
D. Project Sustainability  ........................................   12
E. Bank Performance  ..........................................   12
F. Borrower Performance  .......................................   13
G. Assessment of Outcome  ...........              ............................   14
H. Future of this Operation and Future Operations ........................   14
I.  Key Lessons Learned  ........................................    14
TEXT TABLE 1. Goods Imported Under the Rehabilitation Loan  ....................   4
TEXT TABLE 2. Lithuania's Economic Development since Independence  ..............  4
TEXT BOX  1. Who were the Purchasing Agencies? .............................   9
STATISTICAL TABLES  .............................................   17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .18
Table 2: Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3: Project Timetable .19
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project .20
Table 8A: Project Costs .................                                                         21
Table 8B: Project Financing   ....................................   21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits  ..............................   21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants  ................................   22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................   23
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................  23
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ................................   23
ANNEXES
ANNEX A.    Policy Implementation Under the Rehabilitation Loan
ANNEX B.    On-lending Arrangements to Purchasing Agencies
ANNEX C.    Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
MAP IBRD No. 26177
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITHUANIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3524-LT)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in Lithuania.
The loan of US$60 million equivalent was approved on October 22, 1992 and made effective on
November 5, 1992.
The loan closed on December 31, 1995, 18 months--and two extensions--after the original closing
date of June 30, 1994. Total disbursements amounted to US$59.0 million equivalent and the remaining
US$1.0 million was cancelled. The last disbursement took place on February 7, 1996. In conjunction
with this loan, the Export Import Bank of Japan provided its own Rehabilitation Loan in the amount of
US$45.0 million equivalent which was administered by the World Bank. In addition, the Government
of Sweden provided cofinancing in the amount of $0.25 million for technical assistance for project
implementation.
The ICR was prepared in the Country Operations Division for Belarus, Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania of the Europe and Central Asia Region by Ms. Barbara Lee. The ICR was reviewed by
Mr. James Harrison, Country Operations Division Chief (EC4C1), and Ms. Judy O'Connor, Principal
Operations Officer (EC4DR). Cofinanciers were invited to join the completion mission, asked for input
to this report during its preparation, and also provided with a draft of the report for their review.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in February 1996. The
report is based on: input from the Bank's country team and counterpart agencies on progress in policy
reforms; discussions held with Borrower staff involved in project implementation; interviews with
purchasing agencies; input from the original task manager and procurement advisors; and material from
the project file. Borrower staff participated in all meetings of the completion mission and contributed
to the ICR by preparing an evaluation of the project, included in Annex C. A final draft of this report
was also sent to Borrower staff for their review.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITHUANIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3524-LT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan of US$60 million equivalent was the first World Bank Loan to Lithuania.
Following the re-establishment of Lithuania's independence in 1990, the Lithuanian economy underwent
a fundamental transformation and a sharp decline in output. By early 1992, Lithuania was experiencing
critical shortages of basic consumption commodities and key raw materials and production inputs which
were caused by the severe disruption of relations with traditional trading partners in the Former Soviet
Union and Baltic republics (FSUB). Against this background of economic crisis, the Rehabilitation Loan
was identified in January 1992 during the first World Bank mission to the country and was designed to
provide critically needed import financing to mitigate further declines in output while a comprehensive
economic adjustment and reform program was being introduced.
2.    The loan was prepared in conjunction with an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by
Arrangement (SBA), and was a part of the response by the international community to Lithuania's
pressing short term import needs and its demonstrated commitment to economic reform. While the IMF
SBA focussed on stabilization measures, the Bank concentrated on supporting the development and
implementation of a program of structural reforms agreed to in a Memorandum of Economic Reform
Policies (MERP). Although the loan contained no conditionality, this program laid out a framework for
reforms to begin the lengthy process of restructuring the economy; the program established targets and
indicators to monitor progress. A grant from the Government of Sweden, through its BITS program,
provided financing for implementation technical assistance. A $45 million equivalent Rehabilitation Loan
from the Export Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) was signed on June 22, 1993 as Japan's contribution
within the G-24 financial package. The Bank also administered the JEXIM loan, the objectives and
implementation conditions of which are comparable to those of the Bank loan.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the program supported by this loan to Lithuania were to: (i) assist the
Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform program as outlined in the MERP;
and (ii) help maintain and increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors during the six to twelve
months following loan effectiveness. The loan was designed to finance: (i) essential imports in key
sectors, such as health, agriculture, and energy (US$45 million), with tentative equal allocations; and
(ii) production inputs by individual enterprises imported through normal commercial channels
(US$15 million).  The loan was later amended--largely because hard currency ceased to be in short
supply--to reallocate the funds for the commercial channel toward the purchase of essential imports.



iii
4.     Project objectives were broad and ambitious, particularly given that during project preparation
and implementation, dynamic changes were taking place in Lithuania creating uncertainties beyond the
control of the Government or the Bank. In retrospect, one can now see two ways in which the objectives
could have been better framed: (i) the schedule and deadlines set were overly optimistic, and (ii) there
could have been greater realism about what structural policies could be supported by the loan. First, it
was particularly difficult at that early stage to determine how long it would take to implement the loan,
that is, how long it would take to identify and procure critically needed imports given the constantly
changing needs of the country and the constantly changing resources provided by external sources. In
retrospect, the amount of time originally envisioned for the procurement of critical imports (6-12 months)
and thus for the length of the loan (original closing date June 1994) was too abbreviated. In addition,
the reforms identified under the MERP were to be undertaken during the time frame for loan
implementation. By definition, they were measures which were first steps toward longer term goals. But
even as first steps, the dated indicators specified in the MERP to monitor specific stabilization and
structural measures were too optimistic and in retrospect perhaps even unnecessary. Second, it should
have been more clearly stated in the objectives that the loan would only support initial reform measures
during the early stages of transition. It should also have been emphasized that assisting the Government
with the design of the reform program and securing implementation assistance was the Bank's value-added
at that time. But, despite these points, the Loan--and particularly the MERP--did provide a good tool
to initiate and deepen policy dialogue with the Government, and to identify economic and sectoral
priorities for policy change and investment which then became the backbone for the Bank's future
assistance strategy. The loan did, also, produce some very positive benefits which in hindsight could
have been incorporated as project objectives, such as the impressive expansion of procurement methods
and other transfers of skills and knowledge.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     Despite the flaws in loan design, the loan was successful in achieving the objectives stated above,
and has had a sustainable impact on the borrower as described below. However, the pace of both reforms
and imports under the loan was slower than originally anticipated. The loan was extended twice; thus not
all of the imports financed under the loan arrived during the short-term emergency (6-12 months) period
originally envisioned, even though they were well-identified critical imports. Nevertheless, some 72%
of the imports (in value) were delivered in the first year of the loan (1993), 3% the following year
(1994), and 22% in the final year (1995).
6.     Overall policy performance, as indicated by measures outlined in the MERP, was very good,
aithough somewhat slower than targeted largely due to overly optimistic dates (see para. 8-19 and
Annex A). The major factors affecting policy performance were: continual Government commitment to
reform, despite changes in administrations; the swift and extensive support to the Government to assist
in the reform effort, particularly from grant-funded technical assistance; and extensive policy dialogue
with the Bank through loan supervision, economic and sector work and preparation of subsequent loans.
Lithuania has made impressive strides since independence. Inflation has dropped from 1020% in 1992
to 32% in 1995. And GDP, which fell by more than half after independence, grew about 3% in 1995.
Like many countries in transition, however, Lithuania has a mixed track record of completing some of
the fundamental structural reforms, such as cost recovery pricing of energy, elimination of agricultural
subsidies and adequate oversight of the commercial banking sector. This is leading to a second
generation of transition issues (for instance, bank insolvency), despite the many achievements to date.



iv
7.     The loan also helped maintain capacity utilization and was likely one of many factors which
contributed to the recovery of output in the economy. While the impact of the loan and the imports it
has financed is difficult to assess in quantitative terms, the loan did provide inputs to keep some essential
services running during a very difficult transition period when health supplies were nearly exhausted,
dwellings and workplaces were cold, and there was a lack of raw materials for (among other sectors) food
production. To some extent, maintaining these essential services probably helped moderate dissatisfaction
among the population, enabling the Government to maintain the reform momentum. Finally, the
Rehabilitation Loan provided the first opportunity for most of the purchasing agencies involved to engage
in competitive bidding and to purchase goods from diverse suppliers. Every one of the purchasing
agencies (with the exception of the gas company, which is forced to rely on sole source procurement from
its traditional supplier) has now changed its procurement practices to include competitive tendering, and
many of the relationships developed with new suppliers are being preserved.  Factors affecting the
success of the import component included the dedication of the PIU management and staff; the presence
throughout the loan of procurement advisors funded by Sweden; training provided to PIU staff and others
involved in procurement; and substantial supervision by the Bank.
8.     The loan has made several sustainable contributions to the Lithuanian economy in the areas of
economic reform, capacity utilization and transfer of knowledge. First, economic reform is now deeply
rooted in Lithuania, and the multitude of steps taken to date indicate that the process is irreversible. The
loan contributed to this by providing a framework for initial reform steps and a mechanism for furthering
Bank assistance and complementary support from the international community. Second, some of the
imports financed by the loan did assist various productive entities to survive the initial critical years of
transition when raw materials and other supplies were disrupted due to embargoes, lack of payments
systems and other institutional or systemic breakdowns. To some extent, this helped to prevent a
deterioration of capital assets; many of these entities are now producing profitably, but possibly would
have been forced to shut down during the critical first years. It also contributed to the provision of some
essential services which helped stave off a collapse of ancillary activities. However, many of the imports
were intended for immediate consumption and therefore were not envisioned to have a sustainable impact.
Finally, the transfer of knowledge and skills was substantial and has clearly been sustained. This transfer
encompassed a wide range of areas: economic reform policies, competitive tendering methods, modem
computer packages, letters of credit, employment of consultants, etc.
9.     Both the Government and the Bank devoted considerable efforts and resources to the
implementation of this loan. The dialogue on economic reform was open, extensive and fruitful. These
resources were complemented with grant support from the Government of Sweden which greatly
facilitated implementation of the imports component. In addition, the financing by the JEXIM Bank
contributed to address pending import needs and improved the prospects of sustaining the economy's
supply response. All these factors contributed to the satisfactory outcome of the loan.
Summary of Key Lessons Learned
10.   The Rehabilitation Loan was prepared under unique circumstances which do not lend themselves
to replication; it is now closed, final disbursements have been made, imports have been consumed, and
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will wind up its activities for the loan. The loan was designed as
an emergency response to a new borrower and a newly established country entering the transition process.
It was a mixture of traditional Bank instruments (i.e, a critical imports loan with a quasi-positive list
supporting extensive policy reform without conditionality) which is not likely to be utilized again. It was
followed by extensive support from the international community which (combined with successful



v
stabilization efforts) eliminated the need for further balance of payments/policy-based support from the
Bank for several subsequent years (although such a need has recently emerged). And perhaps most
importantly, the borrower remained committed to the reform process during the entire preparation and
implementation period. Despite these unique circumstances, there are some lessons from this loan, as
indicated below.
i)     Development objectives need to be precise, realistic and monitorable:
Any loan supporting a policy program should explicitly incorporate measures to
foster government commitment and ensure that there is an active policy dialogue. This
was achieved quite well under the Rehabilitation Loan.
Any such loan should also contain precise development objectives in order to clarify
what the loan per se supports and what will be supported by parallel or subsequent
activities. This was less clear in the Rehabilitation Loan, particularly regarding the
policy component.
All development objectives should be clearly monitorable.  In the case of the
Rehabilitation Loan, it was virtually impossible to quantify ex-post how well the objective
of "maintaining or increasing capacity utilization" was achieved.
Knowledge and skills transfer were important benefits of this loan. They could have
been included in the loan objectives.
ii)    The appointment of advisors to the PIU, to provide overall project management support
and expertise on procurement and disbursement, is critical to the success of any operation
involving new borrowers. In this case, the advisors performed an important function of training
and knowledge transfer to both PIU staff and a broader set of local counterparts, which
contributed to the sustainable impact of the loan. The role of the advisors also evolved and
eventually decreased over time, resulting in a change in the skills mix of the advisors; due to this
experience, the Borrower was encouraged by the Bank to develop the capacity to manage the
consultants.
(iii)   Active coordination within the international community is necessary to deliver the
technical support to assist the Government to achieve policy targets. The structural program
outlined in the MERP provided a useful framework to which the international community could
anchor its support at this early stage when the needs of the country were not yet well understood.
(iv)   While flexibility was an important factor, it is necessary that key concepts are well
understood by all parties to eliminate later misunderstandings. For this loan, clearer parameters -
defining what critical imports were appropriate for financing under this loan--could have reduced
the time spent on discussion with the Government during implementation about investment items
they wished to import. Similarly, onlending and repayment arrangements should have been
highlighted as an important element for the efficient and rational use of loan funds; a stipulation
that draft repayment agreements be in place prior to the development of bidding documents for
each import would also have saved considerable time.



vi
(v)    Higher than average preparation and supervision resources are needed when working with
new borrowers, with loans that include policy components, and with loans that provide flexibility
regarding the list of goods to be imported. Supervision costs for this loan were high, however,
the benefits reaped were substantial: the import list was revised continually to respond to
government priorities (which was particularly useful after the change in government in 1993),
sectoral dialogue was developed, and considerable knowledge transfer occurred.
(vi)   The Bank has an ambiguous policy on used equipment; developing a clear and consistent
approach may be useful for future operations. Used equipment would be an appropriate solution
to meet some of the needs of transition economies. However, in the proposed used bus
procurement to be financed under this loan, the Bank's excessive restrictions (such as the age of
the equipment to be purchased, service guarantees and training by suppliers, nationality
diversification of suppliers, etc. made it virtually impossible to find willing suppliers.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LITHUANIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3524-LT)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    Lithuania re-established its independence in March 1990, and joined the World Bank in
July 1992.  Bank dialogue with the Government started during the first economic mission in
January 1992. At that time, Lithuania was in the midst of fundamental political and economic
transformation, and was suffering from severe trade disruptions due to the break-up of the FSUB. These
trade disruptions were already manifesting themselves in widespread shortages of raw materials for
manufacturing and agricultural activities, heating for dwellings and workplaces, and spare parts and goods
for public infrastructure and social services. As a consequence, there was a sharp decline in output.
Efforts to normalize trade relations with traditional trade partners met with limited success. By early
1992, some initial steps to begin the transformation of the Lithuanian economy to a market based system
had been taken, and the Government recognized the need for stronger stabilization measures as well as
broadening and deepening of structural reforms. However, financial and technical support was needed
to implement such an ambitious reform program. A response from the international community was
urgently needed to mitigate the shortages and to provide a framework for stabilization efforts and
structural reforms.
2.     Following extensive discussions within the Bank, the Rehabilitation Loan concept was developed
as the most appropriate initial form of support by the Bank to FSUB countries which were crippled by
trade disruptions but showing clear evidence of commitment to reform. Preparation of a set of such loans
was launched starting with the Russian Federation and the three Baltic countries. The Loan was prepared
in close association with the IMF's first Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) to Lithuania for about
SDR57 million, which focussed on price reform, incomes policy, fiscal policy, currency reform and
monetary policy and trade. The Bank concentrated on supporting the design and implementation of initial
steps of a structural reform program included in the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP),
which laid out a framework for the medium term restructuring of the Lithuanian economy and established
targets and indicators to monitor progress. Given the urgency of the need for import financing, and the
established commitment of the Government to proceed with policy reform, the loan did not contain
specific policy conditionality to govern the release of funds. Project conditions were limited to a general
commitment by the Government to implement the policy measures included in the MERP, to establish
and maintain a project implementation unit, and to undertake procurement and disbursement in a fashion
consistent with Bank procedures.
3.    The main objectives of the program supported by this loan to Lithuania were to: (i) assist the
Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform program as outlined in the MERP;
and (ii) help maintain and increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors during the six to twelve
months following loan effectiveness. To achieve these objectives, the loan of US$60 million was
designed, and was reinforced with funds provided through associated financing from the JEXIM Bank



2
for additional imports (US$45 million equivalent) and the Government of Sweden for technical assistance
($250,000). The loan was designed to finance: (i) essential imports in key sectors, such as health,
agriculture, and energy (US$45 million), with tentative equal allocations; and (ii) production inputs by
individual enterprises imported through normal commercial channels (US$15 million). The Government
and the Bank agreed on the following parameters to determine the composition of imports to be financed
under the loan: (i) the standard negative list of goods would not be financed under either component;
(ii) an essential list of imports in the areas of health, agriculture and energy was drawn up, however,
other imports not on this positive list could be considered subject to prior review by the Bank; and (iii)
purchases of petroleum products, if added to the original positive list, would not exceed one-third of the
loan.
4.       Project objectives were broad and ambitious, particularly given that during project preparation
and implementation, dynamic changes were taking place in Lithuania creating uncertainties beyond the
control of the Government or the Bank. In retrospect, one can now see two ways in which the objectives
could have been better framed: (i) the schedule and deadlines set were overly optimistic, and (ii) there
could have been greater realism about what structural policies could be supported by the loan. First, it
was particularly difficult at that early stage to determine how long it would take to implement the loan,
that is, how long it would take to identify and procure critically needed imports given the constantly
changing needs of the country and the constantly changing resources provided by external sources. In
retrospect, the amount of time originally envisioned for the procurement of critical imports (6-12 months)
and thus for the length of the loan (original closing date June 1994) was too abbreviated. In addition,
the reforms identified under the MERP were to be undertaken during the time frame for loan
implementation. By definition, they were measures which were first steps toward longer term goals. But
even as first steps, the dated indicators specified in the MERP to monitor specific stabilization and
structural measures were too optimistic and in retrospect perhaps even unnecessary. Second, it should
have been more clearly stated in the objectives that the loan would only support initial reform measures
during the early stages of transition. It should also have been emphasized that assisting the Government
with the design of the reform program and securing implementation assistance was the Bank's value-added
at that time. But, despite these points, the Loan--and particularly the MERP--did provide a good tool
to initiate and deepen policy dialogue with the Government, and to identify economic and sectoral
priorities for policy change and investment which then became the backbone for the Bank's future
assistance strategy. The loan did, also, produce some very positive benefits which in hindsight could
have been incorporated as project objectives, such as the impressive expansion of procurement methods
and other transfers of skills and knowledge.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.      Overall. Despite the flaws in loan design, the loan was successful in achieving the objectives
stated above, although the design was altered somewhat (primarily by cancelling the commercial channel
and removing the ceiling on energy imports') during the implementation phase. The objectives of the
loan--namely supporting the design and implementation of reform measures and stemming declines in
'The loan was amended on July 15, 1993 to incorporate these changes. The commercial channel was cancelled due to changing
circumstances inthecountry: the earliershortage of hard currency available to individualsand legalentities waseliminated overthe periodwhen
Lithuania introduced its own currencies (first, a temporary currency--the Talonas--and later the Lita). The energy ceiling was lifted when it
became apparent that disruptions in energy supplies, primarily natural gas, were one of the major reasons for the decline in production and
service delivery in the economy.



3
productive capacity, and the added benefits of expanding procurement methods and diversifying imports--
were achieved and have had a sustainable impact on the borrower. However, the pace of both reforms
and imports was slower than originally anticipated. The loan was extended twice; thus not all of the
imports financed under the loan arrived during the short-term emergency (6-12 months) period originally
envisioned, even though they were well-identified critical imports. Nevertheless, as seen in Table 1,
some 72% of the deliveries (in value) was delivered in the first year of the loan (1993), 3% the following
year (1994), and 22% in the final year (1995).
6.     Support for Economic Reform. The MERP outlined the Government's commitment to undertake
fundamental market-oriented policy reforms. It was formulated and endorsed by the Government after
extensive dialogue with the Bank. The MERP, and the monitoring of it during loan supervision, proved
to be an excellent instrument to deepen the dialogue on structural reforms with the Government. It
provided a framework - through the policy matrix, accompanying terms of reference for technical
assistance, and dialogue with the Government and donors - to which the international community could
anchor its technical assistance programs. It also provided an avenue for the Bank to begin to develop
future operations in various sectors where more extensive outside assistance (both financial and technical)
was needed. Overall policy performance under the loan has been very good (see paras. 8-19 below and
Annex A for details), although somewhat slower than originally anticipated. Lithuania is considered one
of the more successful reformers in the FSUB. Growth has been restored to positive levels, inflation has
dropped to single-digit monthly levels, and there has been a continuous shift toward trade with the West
(see Table 2). Like many countries in transition, however, Lithuania has a mixed track record of
completing some of the fundamental structural reforms, such as cost recovery pricing of energy,
elimination of agricultural subsidies and adequate oversight of the commercial banking sector. This is
leading to a second generation of transition issues (for instance, bank insolvency), despite the many
achievements to date.
7.     Maintenance of Capacity Utilization and Output. The loan helped maintain capacity utilization
and was likely one of many factors which contributed to the recovery of output in the economy.
Lithuania was heavily dependent on trade with the FSUB which accounted for about 90 percent of its total
trade before 1991. The collapse of trade relations within the FSUB was a major cause of disruptions in
the productive sectors and for real GDP to decline by over 50 percent during the initial period following
Independence. This decline was halted during 1994, and growth turned solidly positive (3% increase in
GDP) in 1995. While the impact of the loan and the imports it has financed is difficult to assess in
quantitative terms, the loan did provide inputs to keep some essential services running during a very
difficult transition period when health supplies were nearly exhausted, dwellings and workplaces were
cold, and there was a lack of raw materials for (among other sectors) food production. To some extent,
maintaining these essential services probably helped moderate dissatisfaction among the population,
enabling the Government to maintain the reform momentum. For example, the import of natural gas
during two successive winters brought relief to households, where only a limited amount of heating and
hot water were available, and to industries which relied on gas for production. Similarly, water treatment
chemicals kept the boilers in power plants operating. The provision of pharmaceuticals and various
products, such as veterinary medicines and pesticides for the agricultural sector, sent a lifeline when
traditional channels for imports were disrupted.  The indirect and initially unforeseen benefits of
increasing knowledge of competitive procurement and exposure to new suppliers and products has been
invaluable. The Rehabilitation Loan provided the first opportunity for most of the purchasing agencies
involved to engage in competitive bidding and to purchase goods from diverse suppliers. Every one of
the purchasing agencies (with the exception of the gas company, which is forced to rely on sole source
procurement from its traditional supplier) has now changed its procurement practices to include
competitive tendering, and many of the relationships developed with new suppliers are being preserved.



4
Table 1: Goods Imported Under the Rehabilitation Loan
#OF
% OF             OF           SUPPLIER
IMPORTED ITMMS                      DELIVERY DATES              LOAN    CONTRACTS   COUNTRIES
HEALTH
Pharmaceutica]s UNICEF
Pharmaceuticals Bid 1                   January 93 - June 94             2%               1                 I
Pharmaceuticals Bid 2                  June - December 93                4%              25                15
Pharmaceuticals Bid 3                  June - December 94                3%              22                13
Pharmaceuticals Bid 4                   October 94 - July 95             1%              6                 6
Dental Equipment                        May 95 - June 95                 3%              2                 2
Medical Equipment                       November 95 - December 95         2%             10                 4
TOTAL HEALTH                                                             15%
ENERGY
Natural Gas I                          August 93 - November 93          25%              1                 1
Natural Gas 2                          June 95                          15%              1                 1
Water Treatment Chem. for Elec. Plant    August 93 - December 93         2%              2                 2
Industrial Lubricants                  August 93 - December 93           7%              9                 5
TOTAL ENERGY                                                             49%
TRANSPORT
Bus Spare Parts                         December 94 - March 95           2%              4                 3
TOTAL TRANSPORT                                                          2%
AGRICULTURE
Veterinary                             July 93 - August 93               2%             11                7
Agro-Chemicals                         July 93 - August 93               4%              7                 5
Diesel Fuel I for farmers              May 93 - July 93                 10%              2                2
Diesel Fuel 2 for farmers              July 93 - February 94            16%              4                 3
TOTAL AGRICULTURE                                                       32%
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Computers                               December 95                     <1%              I                 I
TOTAL PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION                                             <1%
TOTAL                                                                      100%            108               21
(of which three
are FSUB)
Table 2: Lithuania's Economic Development since Independence
1992                    1993                    1994                     1995
GDP Growth                     -37%                    -16%                     +1%                     +3%
Annual Inflation              1020%                    410%                     69%                      32%
Fiscal Deficit "               0.5%                    -5.5%                   -5.2%                    -4.9%
Export                        31.8%                    86.1%                   55.1%                   45.8%
Import1'                      22.8%                    94.3%                   61.1%                   50.7%
I/As a share of GDP.



5
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Implementation of the Economic Reform Program
8.    Overall.  The Rehabilitation Loan supported an economic reform program outlined in a
"Memorandum on Economic Reform Policies" (MERP) signed by the Prime Minister. The program
comprised market-oriented policy measures in ten areas: price reform, incomes policy, fiscal policy,
currency reform and monetary policy, international economic relations, enterprise reform, competition
policy and legal and institutional framework for commercial activity, commercial banking system reforms,
social protection and the social safety net, and economic management. The program in the first five areas
focused on macroeconomic stabilization, was designed by the authorities in close collaboration with the
IMF, and was supervised primarily by the IMF. The program in the last five areas focused on structural
reforms, was designed by the authorities in close collaboration with the Bank, and was supervised
primarily by the World Bank.
9.    Overall policy performance under the Rehabilitation Loan was highly satisfactory, and the vast
majority of specific measures foreseen in the MERP have been adopted. The major factors affecting
policy performance were:  (a) continual Government commitment to reform, despite changes in
administrations, (b) the swift and extensive support to the Government to assist in the reform effort,
particularly from grant-funded technical assistance, including in those areas identified during loan design,
and (c) extensive policy dialogue with the Bank through loan supervision, economic and sector work and
preparation of subsequent loans. Stabilization reforms have on the whole been implemented faster and
more comprehensively than structural reforms. This is largely because structural reforms generally
require the development of detailed legislation, public education and consensus building, establishment
of institutional capacity, and sometimes physical investments, all of which tend to be considerably more
complex and time consuming than stabilization measures. In addition, the IMF's close monitoring of key
measures with tranched releases of funds contingent on the outcome of regular policy performance
reviews may have contributed to the relatively fast adoption of stabilization measures. With hindsight,
the original MERP target dates for several structural reform measures were therefore overly ambitious
and optimistic.
10.   Stabilization Measures. By the time the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, Lithuania had already
deregulated prices in most areas. As foreseen in the MERP, remaining price controls on food products
were eliminated on schedule by the beginning of 1993 (mark-up controls remained in place until end
March 1995). With the exception of energy pricing, government price controls or regulation have since
then been limited to goods and services where they are temporarily or in some cases even permanently
justifiable on natural monopoly, public good, or social grounds, such as liquor, utilities, communications,
or public transportation. The MERP schedule for raising electricity, gas, and heat prices and phasing
out associated subsidies during 1993 turned out to be unrealistic. Progress has been made, and especially
electricity prices have risen towards cost and international levels. While there continues to be widespread
non-payment of energy bills, collection rates are improving, particularly during the sumnmer season.
Following the Rehabilitation Loan, relevant policy conditionality has been included in the Bank's Power
Rehabilitation Loan (approved in May 1994) and proposed SAL, and the IMF's EFF program (approved
October 1994).
11.   Inflation (albeit still high by Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development (OECD)
standards) was brought under control through a heterodox stabilization program including stringent fiscal
and incomes policies and tight monetary policies. Strict expenditure and cash management kept the
general government's financial budget balanced through 1993 and limited the financial deficit to only
1.4% of GDP in 1994. The overall fiscal deficit, including net lending to enterprises, also stayed within



6
IMF targets (3% of GDP in 1993 and 4% of GDP in 1994). Broad structural tax reforms were
undertaken early on after independence, and additional reforms such as the introduction of the VAT were
undertaken with only modest delays. A market in Government securities has been established as
envisioned in the MERP; the market is thin but growing. While fiscal pressures were strictly controlled
and not a significant source of inflation, monetary contraction was initially less consistent. For example,
real interest rates turned positive only in spring 1993, and substantial credit flows continued being
directed to non-viable enterprises and ad-hoc import financing during much of 1993. This was the main
reason for continuing high inflation in both 1992 and 1993, when the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was
1,020% and 410% respectively. It was also a major factor for introducing Lithuania's national currency
which occurred in two stages, first making the temporary currency coupons (talonas) sole legal tender
in October 1992, then introducing the litas in May/June 1993. Finally, the initial difficulties with
removing the Bank of Lithuania - and central and commercial bank credit - from political influence
coupled with Estonia's positive experience with a currency board system, led the Lithuanian authorities
to introduce a currency board system in April 1994, tying the lita to the US dollar. Following an initial
reduction in inflation through monetary and fiscal tightening prior to the litas introduction, the
establishment of a currency board has contributed greatly to the consolidation of monetary and overall
macroeconomic stability. With fixed nominal exchange rates, domestic inflation is expected to continue
declining, although it will likely remain in excess of the levels of western trade partners in the medium
term, which will gradually appreciate the real effective exchange rate. This process is already well
underway: inflation was 69% in 1994 and about 32% in 1995.
12.   Trade liberalization has proceeded on schedule or ahead of schedule and by now far exceeds the
targets included in the MERP. Essentially all export and all quantitative import restrictions have been
eliminated, and import tariffs are gradually being reduced and made more uniform. A schedule for
further import tariff reductions is being implemented under the IMF's EFF program. The major
remaining concerns are agriculture import tariffs, which are addressed under the EFF, and the Bank's
proposed SAL.
13.   Enterprise Reform. Enterprise reform and private sector development in Lithuania have been
models of reform in some respects but lagged behind in others. Privatization started early, proceeded
rapidly for two years before slowing down, and has been successful in transferring the majority of assets
out of the public sector into private hands. Virtually all housing and all small businesses have now been
privatized through a voucher program and are now fully privately owned. By contrast, the privatization
program for the larger enterprises through share subscriptions proceeded less quickly than expected and
slowed down over time. However, as of early 1996, about two thirds of such enterprises had been
privatized with vouchers. State assets have also been privatized outside the voucher privatization program
through management and employee buyouts, the "best business plan" method, direct cash sales by
founding ministries or municipalities, or new share issues to purchasers. The beginning of the planned
second stage of privatization, entirely for cash, has been postponed several times but is now to begin
implementation in mid-1996. The Government's commitment in the MERP to remove most restrictions
on the sale and resale of land has been primarily met; there are presently no restrictions on sales to
domestic individuals and the remaining major hurdle of land sales to foreigners is presently being debated
by Parliament. Further efforts in this area are needed in order to facilitate the establishment of a
functioning land market, which will be critical for the consolidation of agricultural land ownership and
the restructuring of agricultural companies and to allow the effective use of land as collateral for
borrowing.
14.   Many key policy measures to establish a basis for improving state enterprise management were
successfully adopted and implemented as foreseen under the MERP.  These include enterprise
corporatization (i.e., primarily the conversion into stock companies and the establishment of management



7
and supervisory boards), the development of new international accounting standards, the phasing out of
direct budgetary financial transfers to ailing enterprises, the monitoring and reduction of inter-enterprise
arrears, and the preparation of studies assessing sector and enterprise restructuring needs.  These
measures have provided enterprises with important incentives for restructuring operations and
strengthening management, however, this is necessarily a long and complex process and will remain a
challenge for some time, particularly with enterprises in key infrastructure branches. Tax arrears and
directed credit through the banking system continue to be a problem, and have contributed to the present
difficulties in the banking sector. These issues will be addressed under the proposed SAL. Restructuring
needs of both pre- and post-privatized enterprises are also being actively supported under the Enterprise
and Financial Sector Assistance Project (EFSAP).
15.    Competition Policy and Legal and Institutional Framework for Commercial Activities.  The
authorities have successfully followed a two-pronged approach to promote domestic competition. First,
the adoption of a Competition Law and Regulations and the set-up and gradual strengthening of a
Competition Agency through technical assistance (which have proceeded as foreseen in the MERP) allow
the Government to pursue anti-monopoly cases. Second, large monopolistic enterprises have been broken
up on a case-by-case basis. This latter process has been focused almost exclusively on splitting
enterprises into components and selling off components or movable assets in preparation of planned
privatization or as part-liquidation.  Rarely, if ever, have enterprises been broken up for purely
competitive reasons. While debatable in individual cases, this policy has been sound as an overall
strategy, given Lithuania's small size and its overall liberal trade policies that allow effective import
competition.
16.    The development of new private sector activity has been somewhat slower in Lithuanian than in
its neighboring Baltic countries Estonia and Latvia, but has begun to catch up. This is in part because
macroeconomic stabilization took longer in Lithuania. In part it is also due to somewhat slower progress
with creating/reforming the legal and institutional framework for commercial activity. In crucial areas
such as bankruptcy, collateral, and foreign investment legislation and procedures, initial improvements
were adopted along the lines of the MERP, but their scope and quality was limited, requiring a second
round of amendments to laws or new laws that have only been adopted recently or are now under
preparation. Furthermore, the implementation of bankruptcy and other legislation is somewhat slower
than expected, because of the complexities of developing appropriate procedures and judicial
infrastructure, and because original target dates were too ambitious. In addition, the privatization process
was formally open to foreign participation, but contrary to the spirit of the MERP, this was in practice
discouraged, with the majority of enterprises being purchased by enterprise and government insiders,
often on preferential terms. This has limited new foreign entry, which otherwise could have contributed
significantly more to new private sector development (PSD), as it has in Estonia, for example. The PSD
environment was assessed, and recommendations for improvements provided, under a recent PSD study,
and bankruptcy and other legislative improvements are being supported in conjunction with the EFSAP.
17.    Strengthening the Commercial Banking System. Restructuring of the financial sector has been
progressing slowly and unevenly and only recently gained some momentum. This applies to all three
policy areas covered by the MERP: banking legislation and prudential regulation and supervision;
accounting, auditing, and payment systems; and bank restructuring. Off-site and on-site supervision
systems were put into place on schedule, but had several shortcomings. Off-site supervision systems were
not completely compliant with International Accounting Standards (although the training programs were
very successful) and on-site inspections have still not been undertaken at the largest banks. Supervision
has remained uneven, which was a contributing factor to the failure of several commercial banks in late
1995. Substantially improved bank accounting and auditing standards have been adopted recently, but
they still fall short of international standards in a few key respects. International audits are now being



8
conducted by most of the larger banks, but they are not legally binding and do not trigger regulatory
action by the Bank of Lithuania, enabling the central bank for the time being to allow essentially insolvent
institutions to keep operating. Much of the substantial, though delayed, progress so far (including the
adoption of the new banking laws, on-site and off-site banking supervision, and new accounting and
auditing standards on an accrual instead of cash basis and requiring provisioning) has been made in
conjunction with the Bank's EFSAP and the IMF's EFF program. The adoption of full international
accounting and auditing standards and the necessary restructuring of the three dominant majority state-
owned banks, which were foreseen in the MERP for early 1993, have been the subject of a continued
and recently intensifying policy dialogue with the authorities. This issue will be addressed further in the
proposed SAL.
18.   Social Prolection and the Social Safety Net. The authorities are genuinely committed to the
development of a comprehensive social protection program. They have made good overall progress in
the three major policy areas listed in the MERP (unemployment, pensions, and social assistance benefits)
and successfully adopted and implemented the various specific policy measures in all three of them. In
most cases, measures have been adopted somewhat behind the schedule mapped out in the original
MERP, but as a rule delays have been within acceptable limits and for understandable reasons, such as
a change of Government or Minister. Unemployment benefits were modified to become essentially flat-
rate, by relating benefits to length of employment only rather than level of income. Eligibility criteria
were also modified in the case of both unemployment and pension benefits to target benefits better to the
most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups of the population. Preparation for a new pension law began
in 1993, and the new law was adopted in mid 1994. It improves substantially upon the old law, although
costing of the options has not yet been undertaken. The relatively slow increase in mens' and womens'
retirement age may prove financially unsustainable for the budget over the medium term and may require
amendments to the law. A streamlined social assistance benefits system was also put in place during
1994, reducing the number of individual benefits, eliminating all but those for maternal care and children
and one means-tested benefit. Furthermore, the levels of all cash benefits are defined in terms of the
"minimum level of living", which functions as a poverty line benchmark. Improvements in pension
policy capability and implementation, and support to local social service offices is being provided under
the proposed Social Safety Net project and the proposed SAL.
19.   Economic Management. The Government has made efforts to strengthen its capacity to collect,
compile, analyze, and report economic statistics. Progress has especially been made with price, fiscal,
and monetary statistics. Trade data have also improved since they have been moved to a customs basis,
and an ongoing comprehensive household survey is expected to improve the quality of social statistics
substantially. Furthermore, the bulk of macroeconomic statistics is now prepared and provided in a
timely fashion. Significant problems remain and further efforts are needed, however, to improve national
accounts and balance of payments statistics. A grant from the Bank's Institutional Development Fund
(IDF) has been mobilized to assist the authorities with these improvements. External debt recording,
reporting, and management has improved very substantially and exceeds expectations, in part due to
effective technical assistance organized by the Bank and funded with resources from the Swedish
Consultancy Trust Fund. Lithuania has also been quite successful in improving public investment
management--initially supported by a Public Expenditure Review and a Bank-organized donor meeting--
and a first 3-year rolling public investment program (PIP) was been prepared in 1993-94 for the period
1995-97. The delay in completing the first PIP by one budget cycle compared to the original MERP
target date is understandable and appears justified, given the magnitude of required efforts for this entirely
new undertaking and the overall adequate quality of the final product.



9
Implementation of the Imports Component
20.    Overall. Implementation performance of the imports component was generally satisfactory. Most
of the goods were imported in a timely fashion, have been fully consumed by the ultimate end-users, and
repayments (where expected) have proceeded on schedule. The delays in procurement that did exist were
primarily caused by four factors: the inexperience of Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and purchasing
agencies' staff with competitive bidding procedures and international transactions; turnover in PIU staff;
gaps in the country's decision-making process to identify critical goods which could be imported quickly;
and in one case constraints imposed by the Bank. These issues were all resolved over time due to the
high quality and extensive dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower. Disbursement went relatively
smoothly, however, some problems were encountered with local commercial banks, requiring significant
interventions from the PIU and also from the Bank.
Factors affecting the success of the import
component included the dedication of the PIU
management and staff; the presence throughout the    Box  1:    Who  were  the  purchasing
loan of procurement advisors funded by Sweden;    agencies?
training provided to PIU staff and others involved  Purchases under the loan were undertaken by nine
in procurement; and substantial supervision by the    purchasing agencies and two ministries. Three
Bank.                                              typical agencies were Farmacija (pharmaceuticals),
Agrokenija (agrochemicals), and Autotransportas
21.    Procurement  of  Imported   Goods.           (bus spare parts). In all cases, these agencies
Procurement was a joint undertaking between the    were state-owned entities responsible for importing
Project Implementation  Unit (PIU)  and  the        100%  of the specific good to Lithuania from
purchasing  agencies (see Box  1).   The PIU        suppliers primarily within the FSUB.  The
consisted of a manager, two procurement staff, one    Rehabilitation Loan was their first encounter with
disbursement staff and  a half time  resident    international competitive bidding.  All three
procurement  advisor  financed  with  Swedish    agencies professed to having improved their
cofinancing. The purchasing agencies were those    procurement skills due to their experience with
agencies or sections of Ministries traditionally    this loan.  "We now purchase from over 100
responsible for procurement and trading.  Nine    suppliers; through competitive bidding we have
purchasing agencies and two ministries were active    learned  a  lot  about  competitive  prices'
purcasln  ageclesand wo mlstns wee aclve (Farmacija). "The final consumers are happy and
purchasers under this loan. In general, the PIU     carust  Thepruct,swhicre pre worty and
s        ~~~can trust the product-> which are price worthy and
was responsible for all dealings with the Bank and  of high quality. We now rely primarily on these
for orchestrating the bidding process, while the    new supply relations" (Agrokemiia). "Previously
purchasing agency was responsible for finalizing   we purchased exclusively from one supplier. The
technical  specifications,  participating  in  bid    competitive bidding process taught us who are the
evaluations, receiving and distributing the goods,    reliable suppliers and we will continue to use this
and  dealing  with  suppliers.    Despite  the    form of procurement in order to get the best
inexperience of both the PIU and the purchasing    price" (Autotransportas). There does not seem to
agencies, close to three quarters of the loan was    be any evidence indicating that  new private
under contract by the end of the first year. The    purchasing agencies were crowded out of the
major difficulty during this period was formulating  market due to the funding received by these
the technical specifications for the various goods    established agencies. Many of the agencies claim
according to western standards  These problems    that new private firms have taken over some 50%
of the market; and many of the formerly state-
were resolved through extensive dialogue with and  owned agencies are now themselves fly or
training of the purchasing agencies; in most cases    partially privatized.
the  purchasing  agencies  received  technical
assistance organized by the procurement consultant
often involving twinning with similar agencies in
Sweden. In the initial months of loan implementation, this inexperience did have repercussions: some



10
agricultural inputs were purchased too late to be used for the planting season (instead they were stored
and used the following year); and a few products--being from non FSUB suppliers--were not perfectly
compatible with the intended uses or were priced too high for resale, and a small portion of these remain
unsold. These were all unfortunate but understandable parts of the learning process for the PIU and the
purchasing agencies.
22.   Turnover in PIU staff also led to some delays in the project. The dramatic contrast of 1993,
when 72% of the loan was contracted, and 1994, when only 3 % of the loan was contracted, bears witness
to this. During 1994, all experienced PIU staff left to the private sector and the resident advisor
relocated. New staff were hired, but did not receive extensive training by the more experienced staff
prior to their departure. In addition, there was a paucity of staff present during most of the summer
months, and the loan came to a virtual standstill. This problem was resolved during the latter half of
1994, and by early 1995, the final bidding documents had been sent out and nearly all of the contracts
had been finalized.
23.   The purchases made during the first year were emergency items selected centrally by the Ministry
of Finance in conjunction with sector ministries during loan appraisal.  After the first year, the
Government began receiving considerable foreign assistance and took steps to develop a structure to
determine priorities for the use of these funds, including the remainder of the Rehabilitation Loan (some
$15-20 million). At this time, the preference of the Government was to utilize borrowed funds only for
investment goods, and frequently for end-users who were already, or were intended to be, in the private
sector. Thus, there was a request to use some $9 million of the Rehabilitation Loan for the purchase of
automation/communications equipment (automatic teller machines, SWIFT connections and such) for
private commercial banks, $3 million for medical and dental equipment for private doctors and dentists,
and later, $9 million for buses.  Simultaneously, there was a request to use the entire JEXIM
Rehabilitation Loan for the purchase of machinery and other equipment for manufacturing firms and some
small businesses, many of which were already in the private sector. The Bank attempted to balance
flexibility toward the changing needs of the country with an adherence to the original project objectives
to finance urgently needed imports. After lengthy discussions, the Government, the Bank (and the
JEXIM in the case of the parallel funding) agreed that commercial sources of funding should be sought
for some of these investments, and that the Rehabilitation Loans should be utilized for more critical, and
quickly purchasable imports, as originally envisioned under the loan. Equipment for commercial banks
and manufacturing firms were discarded from the list; buses and medical/dental equipment, however,
remained on the priority list.
24.    The two instances (medical and dental equipment) where the Bank reluctantly agreed to finance
the purchase of equipment for private end-users were predictably difficult cases with remarkably happy
endings. In late 1993, the Government requested to use $3 million for the purchase of medical and dental
equipment for private doctors and dentists. This purchase was not suited for the quick disbursing,
emergency types of imports envisioned under the loan. There was also the problem of importing a non-
homogenous good to groups for private purchasers, all with divergent preferences. The medical
equipment was to be purchased by six private clinics. In order to save fees to intermediaries, the clinics
chose not to utilize the services of a purchasing agent. The Bank provided technical assistance for
development of technical specifications, and over one year later the bid evaluations were complete and
contracts were to be signed. However, the private clinics could not, at that time, provide guarantees
required by the Government for loans; rather than cancelling the contracts, the Government instead opted
to have the Ministry of Health take over the purchase of the identified equipment for public hospitals in
dire need of new equipment, using budgetary resources. The equipment was delivered some two years
after the initial request was made. The dental equipment also took two years to procure. Rather than
attempting to purchase the equipment themselves, the dental association lined up a private purchasing



11
agent, which orchestrated the procurement and undertook contractual arrangements with each of the 120
dentists which purchased the equipment. Despite large complications in organizing these bids, the
ultimate end-users have expressed their satisfaction.
25.    The attempted purchase of used equipment under this loan exemplifies the Bank's ambiguous
stand on such procurement and resulted in a set-back in Bank relations with the relevant sector ministry.
The Government requested the use of some $10 million to purchase buses for urban transport, since the
existing fleet was old and rapidly deteriorating and there were abundant service disruptions which were
particularly problematic during the cold winter months. Due to the lack of progress on key sectoral
policy issues (decentralization of urban transport services to municipalities, service expenditures and
revenues), the Bank felt it could not finance new buses, but could assist in financing some fleet renewal
through the purchase of spare parts for existing buses and used buses. The spare parts were contracted
and delivered in record time. The used bus purchase, on the other hand, suffered months of delays due
to changes in Bank direction on the purchase of used equipment. In the end, although the purchase was
allowed, so many restrictions were imposed by the Bank (such as the age of the equipment to be
purchased, service guarantees and training by suppliers, nationality diversification of suppliers, etc.) that
when the bidding documents were sent to selected suppliers they simply could not meet all the
requirements. This caused at least a one year delay in the utilization of a large part of the loan. The
funds were later used to purchase natural gas.
26.    Disbursement. Overall disbursement performance was satisfactory.  This performance was
contingent upon three factors: adequate office technology, timely training, and a knowledgeable banking
community. Initial problems were encountered due a lack of basic office equipment and knowledge of
fundamental skills such as completing letters of credit. To ease these start-up problems, a part time
Swedish consultant worked with PIU staff on disbursement matters, and PIU staff attended a seminar on
disbursements procedures. PIU staff gained familiarization quickly and requested that financing for the
disbursement consultant be diverted to other uses. PIU staff indicated that the timing of training was
critical: if provided before the operation was underway then the training was too theoretical. They
indicated that rather than seminar attendance, it would be most useful to have a Bank staff work with the
PIU for a brief period early on when some initial contract payments needed to be made.
27.    By far the largest hurdle to smooth disbursement operations was the initial lack of knowledge of
basic banking practices within the country and within the countries of some of Lithuania's major trading
partners. Since about one-half of the contracts were paid through letters of credit with special
commitments, the inability of the local banks to perform these functions necessitated considerable
interventions by the Bank, the PIU and the suppliers, and sometimes led to delays in subsequent
deliveries. In addition to this initial lack of skills, many of the banks utilized during the loan had not
adopted commercial practices; frequently they did not review contracts to ensure that the terms had been
fulfilled prior to notification that funds should be released. In the case of a large procurement of heavy
fuel oil funded under the JEXIM loan2, this lead to the release of funds - despite the Bank's objection that
suppliers had not fulfilled the terms of the contract - which then necessitated early repayment by the
Government and cancellation of the contract. Finally, a special account was opened with Svenska
Handelsbanken to finance primarily smaller contracts; even though the amount of payments flowing
through the special account only amounted to $1.8 million, some 50% of the contracts had some portion
of the payment covered through the special account.
2This case involved a special commitment by the Bank, which is an irrevocable commitment for the Bank to release funds based on
the approval of the supplier's commercial bank. In this case, neither the commercial bank nor the purchaser flagged that the supplier had not
fulfilled the terms of the contract, and the funds were released by the Bank.



12
28.    Onlending and Repayment Arrangements. The loan originally envisioned the financing of two
types of imports: those which would be financed by the budget and passed on without charge to the final
end-users (eg., some pharmaceuticals and medical equipment), and those with commercial use for which
the end user would repay the Ministry of Finance over time. The bulk of the imports fell into the latter
category, requiring the Ministry of Finance to develop numerous onlending agreements with purchasing
agencies, and in some cases with the end-users themselves. The Bank did not foresee the need for such
arrangements during appraisal, and thus an inconsistent philosophy on these repayment arrangements
developed. Originally, it was thought that the Ministry of Finance could at its discretion decide what
should be repayed and how. Later it was decided that the Bank should monitor all repayments. During
one period the IMF agreed with the Ministry of Finance that all reflows to the Ministry should be
sterilized so as to reduce inflationary pressures, which led the Ministry of Finance to develop onlending
arrangements which simply passed on the Bank terms (i.e, 17 year maturity, 5 year grace and World
Bank interest). Once the sterilization restriction was eased, and ministry officials became more aware
of different repayment options, repayment terms suited to each type of import and end-user were
developed. There were occasional delays in the finalization of onlending agreements3, but, to date, all
repayment agreements have been honored (see Annex B).
D. Project Sustainability
29.    The loan has made several sustainable contributions to the Lithuanian economy in the areas of
economic reform, capacity utilization and transfer of knowledge. First, economic reform is now deeply
rooted in Lithuania, and the multitude of steps taken to date indicate that the process is irreversible. The
loan contributed to this by providing a framework for initial reform steps and a mechanism for furthering
Bank assistance and complementary support from the international community. Second, some of the
imports financed by the loan did assist various productive entities to survive the initial critical years of
transition when raw materials and other supplies were disrupted due to embargoes, lack of payments
systems and other institutional or systemic breakdowns. To some extent, this helped to prevent a
deterioration of capital assets; many of these entities are now producing profitably, but possibly would
have been forced to shut down during the critical first years. It also contributed to the provision of some
essential services which helped stave off a collapse of ancillary activities. However, many of the imports
were intended for immnediate consumption and therefore were not envisioned to have a sustainable impact.
Finally, the transfer of knowledge and skills was substantial and has clearly been sustained. This transfer
encompassed a wide range of areas: economic reform policies, competitive tendering methods, modern
computer packages, letters of credit, employment of consultants, etc.
E. Bank Performance
30.    Preparation. The Bank quickly mobilized resources to assist this new country soon after the re-
establishment of independence. The project was identified during the first Bank economic mission to
Lithuania in January 1992 (prior to Lithuania becoming an IBRD member in July 1992), while the
country was just beginning to embark on its economic and political transformation. The project was
substantially appraised during a March 1992 mission, negotiated in August 1992 and presented to the
Executive Directors in October 1992. The Bank recognized the risks involved in the operation, and
linked the loan to the IMF SBA--working in close collaboration with the IMF--and also assisted the
3In one case, that of medical equipment to private clinics, onlending arrangements were not finalized until after the bid evaluation
had taken place. As noted earlier, the clinics could not meet the requirements and the equipment was instead purchased by the Government.
The problem could have been avoided had onlending armngements been discussed at an earlier stage.



13
Government in identifying technical assistance required for the reform program and the import
component. Throughout the preparation process, intensive discussions were held on the targets included
in the MERP and the content of the import list. Institutional arrangements for implementation were put
into place well in advance of loan effectiveness, in order to begin procurement at the earliest possible
opportunity.
31.   The Rehabilitation Loan was seen as a preferable instrument as a first form of assistance during
this early stage of reform. A Structural Adjustment Loan was considered, but this option was discarded.
It was reasoned that a Rehabilitation Loan would, instead, provide the import financing that was critically
needed and would support and prod the reform effort in a more flexible manner. Several factors
motivated this choice: the urgency of delivering the imported inputs; the fact that the implementation
record at the time was not sufficiently robust to support a tranched operation with very specific and tight
conditionality; and, on the other hand, the country's apparent commitment to reform which justified
financial support for critical imports.
32.   Implementation. Overall Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Bank
devoted higher than average supervision resources to loan implementation as one would expect with a new
Borrower.  The discussion on the MERP was extensive and the MERP targets were continuously
reviewed. The Bank developed a matrix of dated policy actions, monitored developments, and provided
concrete advice to ensure that the reform program remained on track. At the request of the Government,
the Bank provided issue-oriented, informal advice on specific and immediate issues confronting the
authorities during the transition process. This advice was highly regarded in Lithuania. The Bank
engaged in dialogue with other donors on the design and implementation of technical assistance to support
the reform program. The interest of the international community quickly extended to cofinancing the
Bank's subsequent lending operations. The Bank broadened and deepened the advice and dialogue with
the Government through economic and sector work, other non-lending services and preparation of new
lending operations that specifically targeted issues and sectors important to the strengthening the reform
program.
33.   The import component also required special efforts by the Bank, since the Borrower was
unfamiliar with many forms of international transactions and Bank requirements. In the Loan Agreement,
disbursements were stipulated to be made against imported goods of an emergency nature required during
the execution of the MERP. Although a list of goods was included in the agreement, additional items
were needed to exhaust the loan. The Bank attempted to be flexible toward these new requests for use
of the loan while adhering to project objectives. In addition, reviewing the technical specifications, bid
evaluations and final contracts, assisting the Borrower with various issues related to procurement and
disbursement, and discussing and reviewing repayment arrangements, reporting requirements, audits,
projects accounts consumed a considerable amount of resources.
F. Borrower Performance
34.   The Borrower's performance was fully satisfactory during project preparation and implementation.
The Government was very active in the design of the reform program and engaged in a healthy dialogue
with the Bank during implementation. The Government maintained an overall commitment to the reform
process despite domestic pressures to ease the impact of transition. There was also good performance
by the PIU on the import component, despite the intermittent problems of staff turnover and gaps in
decision-making regarding priority imports, as indicated above. Because of Lithuania's unfamiliarity
with Bank procedures, the limited experience with international transactions, and the initial hesitation to
borrow for imports, the Government relied on Bank support and worked closely with Bank staff to clarify



14
sector priorities, to identify imports, and to work out necessary arrangements for loan implementation.
PIU staff learned quickly from the foreign advisors and over time, the PIU was able to handle nearly all
transactions with only limited interaction with the Bank and external advisors, and also to pass on this
knowledge to other actors in both public and private sectors. Finally, the Borrower fulfilled all of its
requirements regarding record keeping, reporting and auditing despite some delays.
G. Assessment of Outcome
35.   Project outcome is rated fully satisfactory; it has achieved its major objectives and development
results. The Bank's intervention was timely and effective given the need for quick action in a new and
changing environment, and the Bank provided adequate support during preparation and implementation.
The Borrower carried out a comprehensive reform effort and a reasonably successful imports program.
Adherence to the reform program, which was outlined in the MERP and which the Rehabilitation Loan
aimed to support, enabled Lithuania to return to growth relatively quickly as compared to experiences
in other transition economies. The Rehabilitation Loan has also facilitated Lithuania's diversification of
trade in a small number of important sectors.
H. Future of this Operation and Future Operations
36.   The Rehabilitation Loan was designed as a form of short term balance of payments assistance.
The loan is now closed, final disbursements have been made, imports have been consumed, and the PIU
will wind up its activities for the loan. The PIU's disbursement officer will continue to serve World Bank
and other loans, other PIU staff will be absorbed into the Ministry of Finance's debt management unit
(and will consult other PIUs on procurement matters as needed) and repayments to the Ministry of
Finance for imports purchased with funds from this loan will be monitored by the accounting department.
37.    During the three years following loan approval, there was no need for any additional balance of
payments finance; IMF and G-24 financing was more than ample to satisfy Lithuania's needs. During
this period, the Bank concentrated on investment operations and some credit lines to support the
Government in its efforts to continue the economic transformation towards a market system and bring
about sustained growth in output and living standards. Interactions with the Government on the MERP
under the Rehabilitation Loan's import component has led to a deeper sectoral dialogue and to the
preparation of initial investment operations. Five investment loans have been approved since the
Rehabilitation Loan: Power Rehabilitation Project (US$26.4 million equivalent); Klaipeda Environment
Project (US$7 million equivalent); Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Loan (US$25 million); and
Siauliai Environment Project (US$6.2 million equivalent); and Private Agriculture Development Project
(US$30 million). Operations in the energy/environment, housing and social safety net areas are in an
advanced stage of preparation. In recent months, due largely to the fiscal pressures bought on by several
commercial bank insolvencies, a SAL has been requested by, and is being discussed with, the
Government.  The Bank does not envision any future lending with instruments similar to the
Rehabilitation Loan.
I. Key Lessons Learned
38.   The Rehabilitation Loan was prepared under unique circumstances which do not lend themselves
to replication; it is now closed, final disbursements have been made, imports have been consumed, and
the Project Implementation Unijt (P1lX) wllX wind up its activities for the loan. The loan was designed as



15
an emergency response to a new borrower and a newly established country entering the transition process.
It was a mixture of traditional Bank instruments (i.e, a critical imports loan with a quasi-positive list
supporting extensive policy reform without conditionality) which is not likely to be utilized again. It was
followed by extensive support from the international community which (combined with successful
stabilization efforts) eliminated the need for further balance of payments/policy-based support from the
Bank for several subsequent years (although such a need has recently emerged). And perhaps most
importantly, the borrower remained committed to the reform process during the entire preparation and
implementation period. Despite these unique circumstances, there are some lessons from this loan, as
indicated below.
i)     Development objectives need to be precise, realistic and monitorable:
Any loan supporting a policy program should explicitly incorporate measures to
foster government commitment and ensure that there is an active policy dialogue. This
was achieved quite well under the Rehabilitation Loan.
Any such loan should also contain precise development objectives in order to clarify
what the loan per se supports and what will be supported by parallel or subsequent
activities. This was less clear in the Rehabilitation Loan, particularly regarding the
policy component.
All development objectives should be clearly monitorable.  In the case of the
Rehabilitation Loan, it was virtually impossible to quantify ex-post how well the objective
of "maintaining or increasing capacity utilization" was achieved.
Knowledge and skills transfer were important benefits of this loan. They could have
been included in the loan objectives.
ii)    The appointment of advisors to the PIU, to provide overall project management support
and expertise on procurement and disbursement, is critical to the success of any operation
involving new borrowers. In this case, the advisors performed an important function of training
and knowledge transfer to both PIU staff and a broader set of local counterparts, which
contributed to the sustainable impact of the loan. The role of the advisors also evolved and
eventually decreased over time, resulting in a change in the skills mix of the advisors; due to this
experience, the Borrower was encouraged by the Bank to develop the capacity to manage the
consultants.
(iii)   Active coordination within the international community is necessary to deliver the
technical support to assist the Government to achieve policy targets. The structural program
outlined in the MERP provided a useful framework to which the international community could
anchor its support at this early stage when the needs of the country were not yet well understood.
(iv)   While flexibility was an important factor, it is necessary that key concepts are well
understood by all parties to eliminate later misunderstandings. For this loan, clearer parameters -
defining what critical imports were appropriate for financing under this loan--could have reduced
the time spent on discussion with the Government during implementation about investment items
they wished to import. Similarly, onlending and repayment arrangements should have been
highlighted as an important element for the efficient and rational use of loan funds; a stipulation
that draft repayment agreements be in place prior to the development of bidding documents for
each import would also have saved considerable time.



16
(v)    Higher than average preparation and supervision resources are needed when working with
new borrowers, with loans that include policy components, and with loans that provide flexibility
regarding the list of goods to be imported. Supervision costs for this loan were high, however,
the benefits reaped were substantial: the import list was revised continually to respond to
government priorities (which was particularly useful after the change in government in 1993),
sectoral dialogue was developed, and considerable knowledge transfer occurred.
(vi)   The Bank has an ambiguous policy on used equipment; developing a clear and consistent
approach may be useful for future operations. Used equipment would be an appropriate solution
to meet some of the needs of transition economies. However, in the proposed used bus
procurement to be financed under this loan, the Bank's excessive restrictions (such as the age of
the equipment to be purchased, service guarantees and training by suppliers, nationality
diversification of suppliers, etc. made it virtually impossible to find willing suppliers.



17
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives*       Substantial        Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                       0               El 0             0         
Sector policies                      0               El                 l 
Financial objectives                 0               E                E                a
Institutional development            0               El                 l 
Physical objectives                  0               E                E                E
Poverty reduction                    El              E                C                0
Gender issues                        E               El               E                l
Other social objectives              EE                               E                0 
Environmental objectives                             El               E                0
Public sector management             0               E                El 
Private sector development           a               E                E                0
Other (specify)                      E               E                E                0
B. Project sustainabiiity             Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
0                      0                     0lE
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                       El                     0                     El
Preparation assistance                                        I 0                 E
Appraisal                            E                                            El
Supervision                           l                     0                     E
D. Borrower performance         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                          El                     0                     El
Implementation                      El                      VI                    0
Covenant compliance                                         0                     El
Operation (if applicable)            a                      E                     a
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory
E               0              El                 El
* Some of the objectives were identified in the MERP. Other objectives not originally envisaged (such as
improvements in public procurement and thus public sector management) were indirectly achieved through loan
implementation.



19
Table 2: Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                            Year of Approval   Status
Preceding Operaions                                                   None
Following Operations
1. Power Rehabilitation       Energy Efficiency                       FY94         Under implementation
2. Klaipeda Environment       Environmental Improvements              FY95         Under implementation
3. Enterprise/Finance         Enterprise and Financial Sector         FY95         Under implementation
Development
4. Siauliai Environment       Environmental Improvements              FY96         Under implementation
5. Agriculture                Development & Private Agriculture       FY96         Under Implementation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           3/92                  3/92
Preparation                                          4/92                  3/92
Appraisal                                            4/92                  3/92
Post Appraisal                                       6/92                  6/92
Negotiations                                         7/92                8/31/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)/        8/92                  9/92
MERP
Board presentation                                  9/29/92              10/22/92
Signing                                                                  10/23/92
Effectiveness                                        10/92               11/5/92
Project completion/loan closing*                    6/30/94              12/31/95
* A 4-month grace period was granted to finalize disbursement.



20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93        FY94        FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate                     35           60         60         60
Actual                                 6.9        45.87       57.24      59.0
Actual as % of estimate               20%          76%         95%       95%
Date of final disbursement 02/07/96
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
- not applicable -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
- not applicable -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
- not applicable -



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                      Actual
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Item
Local   Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                    costs     costs
1. Import                                        60          60                      59.0       59.0
2. TA                                              0          0                       0          0
Total                             60         60                      59.0       59.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                      Actual
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Source
Local   Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                    costs     costs
1. IBRD/IDA                                      60                                  59.0       59.0
2. Cofinancing Institutions*
Total                             60                                 59.0       59.0
* Parallel financing by JEXIM Bank ($45M), and the Government of Sweden ($0.25M).
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- not applicable -



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant           Origin      Revised
Agreement   Section        Type    Status    al        Fulfillment   Description of Covenant
Fulfill      Date
ment
Date
Loan         3.01 (a)        9         C       -           -         Borrower and Bank to exchange views on
progress of MERP.
Loan         3.01 (b)        9         C       -           -         Borrower shall furnish Bank with a report
prior to exchange of views as the Bank shall
request.
Loan           3.02          10        C       -           -         Procurement of goods shall be governed by
schedule 3 of this Loan Agreement.
Loan           3.03          5         C       -           -         Borrower shall establish and maintain PIU
within MoF to oversee disbursement and
procurement. The Borrower shall provide
funds for operation of PIU and employment of
consultants where needed.
Loan         3.04 (a)        I         C       -           _         The Borrower shall maintain adequate accounts
and records consistent with sound accounting
practices related to the loan.
Loan        3.04 (b)(i)      I        CD       -           _         The Borrower shall have the records and
accounts audited each fiscal year in accordance
with auditing principles, by independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank.
Loan        3.04 (b)(ii)     I        CD       -           -         The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank no
later than six months of FY a certified copy of
audit report.
Loan        3.04 (b)(iii)    I         C       -           -         The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank other
information on accounts, records and audit as
the Bank shall request.
Loan        3.04 (c)(i)      I         C       -           -         For SOEs/SAs the Borrower shall maintain
accounts and records reflecting expenditures.
Loan        3.04 (c)(ii)     I       NYD       -           -         For SOEs and SAs the Borrower shall retain
for a period of at least one year after the last
audit report, all documents for such
expenditures
Loan        3.04 (c)(iii)    I         C       -           _         The Borrower shall enable the Bank to
examine such SOE/SA records.
Loan        3.04 (c)(iv)      1       CD       -           -         The Borrower shall ensure that SOE/SA
records and accounts are included in annual
audits with separate auditors' opinions.
Covenant type:                                                                            Present Status
I= Accounts/audits                     8 = Indigenous people                              C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue      9 = Monitoring                                     CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not covered by         CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds    categories 1-9                               NC = not complied with
4    Counterpart funding               II - Remedies                                      NYD = Not yet due
5 = Management aspects of the project or   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                        other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants           13 -Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and                         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Title
None
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned                                                Actual
Stage of project cycle                  Weeks             US$                           Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal                 NA                NA                              NA         NA
Appraisal                                NA                NA                               33.7       87.6
Negotiations through Board               NA                NA                               11.3       29.6
approval
Supervision                               43               108.6                            72.9      189.6
Completion                                17               44                                2.3        9.5
NA = data not available.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating 2
No. of  Days in                         IIm        *    DeI       nt Types of
Stage of project cycle      Month/Year  Persons  Field         Specialization '    mstatus        Dbeectpies   Problems
Through appraisal               3/92         10       12            E, 0
6/92         7       14            E, O
Appraisal through Board           -          -        -               -
Approval
Supervision                     1/93         2        9              0                 1                    1
6/93         5       11            E, O               2                    2        M
10/93        2                     E, 0                2                   2        M
4/94         1       5             E, 0                2                   2        M
6/94         1                     E, 0               2                    2        M
6/95        2                      E, 0
Completion
2/96         3       10            E,0                 1                   1
1 - Specialization                            2 - Performance Rating                3 - Types of Problems
E = Economist                                 1 = Minor problems                    F =  Financial
0 = Other*                                    2 = Moderate Problems                 T = Technical
3 = Major Problems                    M  = Managerial
* Other includes country officer, operations analyst, sector specialist, procurement and disbursement specialists. Many of the specialists
visited the country in combination with other missions.



ANNEX A
LITHUANIA
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION UNDER THE REHABILITATION LOAN
An economic reform program covering initial steps in four major structural areas--enterprise
reform, competition policies, financial sector reform, and the social safety net--was articulated by the
Government during the preparation of the project and finalized in the form of a Memorandum on
Economic Reform Policies (MERP) signed by the Prime Minister on September 28, 1992. At the request
of Bank management, the MERP indicated specific targets and dates by which those targets should be
achieved. Disbursements of the Rehabilitation Loan were not corntingent upon achievement of the reform
objectives outlined in the MERP; instead the MERP was envisaged as a tool to assist the Government to
articulate a comprehensive reform program (and the underlying technical assistance needs which was
implemented largely with grant financing by the donor community) and to monitor its implementation.
Stabilization actions under the MERP were monitored by the IMF under the SBA, and the
structural reforms were initially monitored in conjunction with the supervision of the Rehabilitation Loan.
However, over time sectoral policy dialogue and a pipeline of Bank projects and non-lending services was
developed with individual ministries/agencies, and supervision of individual targets were folded into the
burgeoning assistance program (dovetailing with the expiration of many of the original target dates).
Follow-up projects and sector work in the ensuing years which have continued to support these measures
include: a Power Rehabilitation Loan (PRL); an Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project
(EFSAP); a proposed Social Safety Net Project (SSNP); a proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL);
a Private Sector Development (PSD) Study; a Public Expenditure Review (PER) and follow-on donors'
meeting, and grants funded through the IDF and CTF programs. The international community as a
whole, together with the Bank, has been very active in supporting this reform package.
The matrix attached indicates the status of the individual areas of reform during the initial phase
of supervision, and again at the time of loan closing. As indicated in the matrix below, seventeen of the
areas identified in the MERP received a rating of satisfactory at the time of loan closing; eleven are still
under implementation in conjunction with Bank support.
Attachment



STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area              Objective          Target Date        Status as of 3/931          Status as of 6/931         Status as of 2/962
Enterprise Reform
|   Privatization  1. Remove most             After          Formally not yet relevant:   Partial Compliance:       Satisfactory: No
restrictions on sale and  introduction    Some restrictions lifted   Legislation has been passed  restrictions remaining on
resale of land.           of new         although new currency not   to accelerate land restitution  sales to domestic
currency.     yet introduced. But plan to  and privatization. Litas not  individuals. Legislation
slow down agricultural     introduced as of mission    presently under review by
restitution and privatization   departure.             Parliament to allow
to complete only by 1997.                              foreigners to purchase land.
2. Complete privatization   End-1992     Partial compliance:         Partial Compliance: List   Satisfactory: Program
program for small                        Around 80% of enterprises,  of enterprises originally   complete. Virtually all
enterprises.                             but number of objects       envisioned under the small  small businesses in private
increasing through break-up   privatization program has    hands.
of large enterprises.      expanded. Progress
continues, although the
expanded program not yet
complete.
3. Initiate program of     End- 1992     Good compliance: New        Full Compliance
demonstration privatization              privatization methods
using techniques other than              include (i) "best business
vouchers/auctions.                       plan;" (ii) management and
employee buyouts; and (iii)
public tender (including
foreign); acceleration
possible and desirable.
Status during implementation was assessed during supervision missions 3/93 and 6/93.
2 Status as of loan closing is indicated as satisfactory or ongoing, with areas of Bank assistance to ongoing activities identified where appropriate.



2
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area             Objective          Target Date        Status as of 3/93          Status as of 6/93            Status as of 2/96
*  State           1. Examine present        End- 1992     Full Compliance: System    Full Compliance
Enterprise     organizational structure                 of Supervisory Boards now
Management    and improve performance.                 in place and use of outside
directors is being
encouraged.
2. Introduce new          Regulations    Partial Compliance:       Partial Compliance: Little  Ongoing: Legal framework
accounting standards.     by end-1992,  Accounting Law in place;    progress since 3/93; some    in place but implementation
introduction    consistent regulations still    TA being targeted to this    needs strengthening.
by end-1993.  missing.                   area.                      Country Financial and
Auditing Review to be
undertaken in FY97.
3. Restrain financial flows  Continuously  Full Compliance:        Full Compliance
to ailing enterprises.                  Government states that there
are no flows of budgetary
funds to ailing enterprises.
4. Monitor and then       Early 1993    Partial, not yet fully     Partial Compliance: Little  Ongoing: Inter-enterprise
restrain domestic and inter-            adequate compliance:       progress since 3/93; some    arrears have been eliminated
republic inter-enterprise               Monthly statistics on arrears  TA being targeted to this    for all but public
arrears.                                now available; inter-state    area.                   infrastructure enterprises,
arrears are being contained;                          primarily energy.
but domestic arrears are                              Performance improvements
growing.                                             in bill collection by the
electricity company
supported under the PRL.
5. Initiate studies of    Early 1993    Satisfactory compliance:    Full Compliance
restructuring needs of                  Government has initiated                              Additional enterprise level
selected subsectors and                 some studies and resources                            studies being undertaken
large enterprises.                      are in agreed PHARE                                   with technical assistance
program for further work.                             developed under the
auspices of the EFSAP.



3
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area        Objective                Target Date        Status as of 3/93         Status as of 6/93         Status as of 2/96
Competition
Policies
Break-up of    1. Break-up large         Continuous    Slow, partial compliance:   Partial Compliance:     Satisfactory: Enterprises
existing anti-   enterprises to improve                Focus is essentially only on  Limited progress ongoing.   for privatization increased
competitive    competition and to prepare              break-up and sale of assets                         from 3800 to 6500, largely
structures     for privatization.                      of enterprises that are to be                       due to breaking up.
privatized or non-viable;
vertical integration in food
processing industry in the
course of privatization goes
in the wrong direction.
2. Develop institutional    After passage  Partial Compliance: Price  Partial Compliance: The   Ongoing: Agency has
capacity to implement    of law        and Competition Committee  Competition Agency needs   received significant
Competition Law.                       and Council defined in law   strengthening (in mandate   technical assistance from the
is in operation, but      and institutional capacity).  international community and
resources remain small and   Some TA has been       is becoming increasingly
exact mandate and de facto  received.               active.
powers are somewhat
vague.
  Promote new    Continue to (a) break up    Continuous    Satisfactory compliance:    Full Compliance
private sector   large enterprises; (b)                Commitment to private
activities     contract out public                     sector appears on the whole
services; (c) disseminate              unwavering, and gradual
information.                           Drogress is evident.
*  Improve        Take action on FIAS       April 1993    Formaly not yet relevant,  Partial Compliance:       Ongoing: Revised FT law
environment for recommendations.                       but overall satisfactory  Progress ongoing.         and Investment Agency in
foreign                                                compliance: Privatization                           place. Foreign investment is
investment                                            through sales to foreign                             picking up. PSD Study
investors now begin to be                           provided further assistance
actively pursued; progress                          to Govt. IFC has one
in other areas continues.                           completed and two pending
investments.



4
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area            Objective          Target Date       Status as of 3/93        Status as of 6/93           Status as of 2/96
Improve legal   1. Adopt bankruptcy     Mid-1993      Partial Compliance:       Partial Compliance: Some  Ongoing: Legal framework
and            regulations and develop                Bankruptcy regulations have  bankruptcies have occurred  complete but bankruptcy
institutional    juridical infrastructure.            been drafted, but further    and TA has been recruited   procedures not complete;
framework for                                         adjustments needed;       for legal assistance to   some bankruptcies initiated.
commercial                                            capacity to implement    improve regulations.       EFSAP supporting reforms.
activities                                            bankruptcy proceedings
remains inadequate, even
though Government is
acting directly to liquidate
some non-viable
enterprises.
Partial Compliance:      Satisfactory: Although
2. Modify all major laws   Continuous    Situation not clear:    Progress ongoing.         some gaps remain in the
governing transactions                 Actions ongoing, but                                area of cadastre and
(property transfers and               remain unfocused.                                    collateral, commercial-legal
sales, credit, collateral,                                                                framework largely in place.
etc.).                                                                                     Comprehensive assessment
under PSD study.
Flnancial Sector
Reform
.  Banking Law    1. Put in place report   October 1992  Generaly Satisfactory     Full Compliance           Ongoing: Supervision not
and Prudential  system for off-site banking           Compliance: Put in place                            carried out adequately (for
Regulation and  supervision and monitoring            reporting system and began                          instance, off-site inspection
Supervision    bank credit.                           receiving reports, though                           not compliant with
not comprehensively;                               International Accounting
inadequate enforcement.                             Standards) and has
contributed to present
problems in the banking
sector. Central Bank needs
stronger leadership and
greater independence.



5
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area             Objective          Target Date        Status as of 3/93          Status as of 6/93          Status as of 2/96
Financial Sector    2. Put in place          First half of   Just beginning, partial   Partial Compliance: Pilot  Ongoing: Supported by
Reform (Cont'd..)  institutional arrangements   1993        compliance: Development   on-site inspection'has been   training undertaken by
and training programs for               of plans and responsibilities  conducted; must be made    USAID, ongoing dialogue
on-site banking                         just about to start.       more systematic.           with authorities, and by IMF
supervision.                                                                                  EFF and proposed
Bank SAL. Onsite
inspections have been
undertaken in several
smaller banks, but remains
inadequate.
Accounting,     1. Introduce regulations    January 1993   Uneven, partially delayed   Insufficient Compliance:    Satisfactory: Payment
Auditing, and   for new accounting,                     compliance: New plan of   No regulations in place,    systems are no longer a
Payments       auditing, and payment                    accounts for BoL adopted;   only voluntary            hindrance; regulations
System         systems, and implement                   payment system delays      implementation. TA being   (albeit in need of
new plan of accounts for                addressed through couriers,  targeted.                improvements) and BoL
Bank of Lithuania.                      otherwise judged as less                              plan of accounts are in
critical; delays in adopting                         place.
adequate accounting and
auditing standards.
2. Put in place           First half of    Deadline not passed, but
institutional arrangements   1993       delayed; compliance likely: Partial Compliance:       Ongoing: Twinning
and enroll staff in training            Depends on prior/parallel    Progress is being made and   arrangement for several
programs for implementing               regulatory and banking     TA will be targeted to these  commercial banks supported
new accounting, auditing                supervision measures.      areas.                     by EFSAP and others.
and payment systems.
*  Banking Sector  Develop coherent plan and  Beginning of   Insufricient/delayed      Partial Compliance: Some  Ongoing: Recent banking
Restructuring   timetable for financial   1993          compliance: No person or  privatization ongoing in state-  crisis has made
restructuring of the                    body has been assigned     owned banks and TA received  restructuring needs
banking system, in                      responsibility, and so far,   assessing the overall   imminent. Policy and
particular the three large              no systematic analysis has   restructuring. Govemment    eventual financial support
state banks.                            taken place, neither have  needs to establish an inter-  provided by ongoing
plans been developed.      min isteatas  prce        dialogue with authorities
________________  ______________________    ______________________________________te __stucturng _prcess_  and  proposed  SAL.



6
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area             Objective         Target Date        Status as of 3/93         Status as of 6/93           Status as of 2/96
Social Safety Net   Establish priorities and  January 1993   Partial Compliance:     Partial Compliance: Work  Ongoing: Supported by
*  Overall Design  develop plan for medium-               Analysis has started and   is ongoing.               letter of development policy
and Financing   term design and financing              proposals are developed,                            in conjunction with Social
of Social Safety  of the social safety net             but so far insufficient                             Safety Net Project and
Net            system under alternative                coordination with Ministry                          proposed SAL.
scenarios.                             of Finance.
*  Unemployment  1. Prepare proposal for    December      Partial compliance:        Full Compliance:
Benefits and    simplified (possibly flat-    1992     Modified system has lower   Simplified benefits system,
Employment    rate) benefit system with                expenditures, but is still too  based on minimum wage,
Programs       modified eligibility                    complex, not yet flat-rate    has been implemented.
criteria.                              (proposal is being
developed), and eligibility
is too wide.
Early 1993    Satisfactory compliance:    Full Compliance: Funds
2. Secure retraining &                 Retraining funds now       have been earmarked for
other active labor market              earmarked, but still       retraining.
policies from crowding out             financed from payroll taxes
through a specified level of           like unemployment benefits.
financing.
*  Pension         Prepare medium-term      Early 1993    Partial compliance: New    Partial Compliance:       Ongoing: New law adopted
Benefits       pension reform plan based               pension reform plans exist   Revised draft pension law to  in 1994, effective January
on full costing of options             and include e.g. raising   be submitted to Parliament;  1995. Retirement age has
under alternative economic             retirement age, etc.       TA has been received.     been raised.
and demographic                                                                             Implementation to be
scenarios.                                                                                  supported by Social Safety
Net Project and proposed
SAL.



7
STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area             Objective          Target Date       Status as of 3/93          Status as of 6/93           Status as of 2/96
Economic
Management
*  Statistical     1. Prepare and propose to  As soon as    InsuMcient/delayed       Insufficient Compliance.    Satisfactory: Legal
System         adopt statistic law.      possible      compliance: no statistics                            framework complete.
law has been prepared or
proposed yet.
2. Strengthen statistics  Continuous    Partial, generally         Full Compliance:          Significant improvements
staffing and training                   satisfactory compliance:    Improvements are ongoing.  already, further support to
throughout Government                   improvements are ongoing;                            be provided by IDF grant to
and introduced modern                   more training and                                    Department of Statistics.
data collection and analysis            introduction of sampling
methods.                                methods needed; balance of
payments data are a
particular weak spot.
.  External Debt   1. Centralization of     November       Full compliance.           Full Compliance.
Recording and   official grant and loan  1992
Management    capital inflows through
Ministry of Finance.
2. Put in place system for  November    Delayed compliance:       Partial Compliance:        Satisfactory: Debt
monitoring, recording and   1992        reporting began with TA    Capacity of debt reporting    management system under
reporting debt flows and                mission in late March 1993;  unit must be strengthened.   implementation, supported
stocks of Government and                some components, such as                             by Consultant Trust Fund,
public enterprises.                     clear arrangements for state                         managed by Bank.
guarantees, still missing.



STATUS OF THE POLICY ACTIONS
UNDER THE MEMORANDUM OF ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Reform Area            Objective          Target Date       Status as of 3193          Status as of 6193           Status as of 2/96
Public         1. Establish mechanism   Early 1993     Partial and insufficient  Partial Compliance: First  Satisfactory: Supported by
Investment     for setting investment                  compliance: most projects  assessment has been done;   work in the PER and
Program        priorities, choosing project            still chosen and evaluated    TA has been recruited.  subsequent Bank sponsored
evaluation criteria, and               ad hoc; insufficient central                         donors' conference.
appraising projects.                   integrating function and
Ministry of Finance
involvement; instead too
much central involvement in
project proposal and design.
2. Prepare first rolling 3-   Mid-1993  Not yet relevant, but     Partial Compliance: PIP    Satisfactory: First two
year public investment                 probably delayed           work has begun; TA has    PIPs have been delivered.
program.                               compliance: preparations   been received.
have not yet begun.



LITHUANIA REHABILITATION LOAN
On-Lending Arrangements to Purchasing Agencies
Purchasing Agency       Date of  US$ Amount                             First       Duration           End User
Agreement                   Interest Rate    Repayment ll
Sub-loan Agreements
Farmacija                   614/95    6,000,000      World Bank rate       15/2/97      11.5 years   Pharmacies/Hospitals
Veterinary                 30/12/93   1,370,742      World Bank rate       15/2/97      13.5 years   Farms
Agrochemija                 26/7/93    2,337,803     World Bank rate       15/2/97       15 years    Farmers/Agrobusinesses
TENA/LSPS                   31/8/93    1,472,762     World Bank rate       15/2/97      13.5 years   TENA/LSPS
Lietuvos Dujos/Gas          15/9/93   24,000,000     World Bank rate       15/2/97      15.5 years   LSPS/Houses/lndustry
Lietuvos Kuras/Lubricants    20/7/93   4,274,023     World Bank rate       15/2/97      13 years.   Industry/Railroads
SK Impex                    11/5/94    1,844,428  World Bank Rate + .Spct   15/2/97      5 years    Private Dentists
Lietuvos Kuras/Diesel       4/3/93    15,900,000          8.5%                                      Farmers/Agrobusinesses
Passed on Free of Charge
Autotransportas              None      996,337                                                      Municipal bus comps.
Ministry of Health           None      1,058,240                                                    Hospitals
Ministry of Finance          None       48,630                                                      Ministry of Finance
I/ All initial repayments were scheduled to become due one month before the first principal repayment due by MoF to the World Bank.
m:ithusnAdh itmbab.sjs



ANNEX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE WORLD BANK REHABILITATION LOAN NO. 3524-LT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



Page 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPImON REPORT
IBRD REHLBILJATION LOAN NO 3524 LT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
"Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective"
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Loan Amount:            USD 60 million
Date of Signing:        October 23, 1992
Date of Effectiveness:  November 5, 1992
Original Closing Date:    June 30,1994
The objectives of the loan were:
a) to assist the Goverrnent in the design and imnplementation of its adjustennt
and structural reform program, and
b) to help maintain or increase capacity utilization in key sectors such as
agriculture, health and energy during the next 6 to 12 months.
lithuania urgently required basic imports to prevent further deterioration of the existin
capital stock, to maintain essential services such as power, heating, transport and health
services and to generate a supply response to thc ncw set of incentives in key productive
sectors like agriculture.
SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
If not formally, the PIU office was in practice established in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) in early August 1992 with the arrival of the Procuremcnt Adviser and the
necessary office equipment provided through grant funding from the Swedish
Government. Hifab International (Hifab) had been selected to provide procurement ser-
vices. The technical services contract between MOF and Hifab had bcen s igned in early
July 1992.
The first Deputy Coordinator assigned by the MOP to work in the PIU left in September
1992 for further training abroad and was subsequently recruited by a private bank in
Vilnius. Thc second Deputy Coordinator was recruited from another Ministry but left the
PIU in February 1993 for work in the private sector. The third Deputy Coordinator was
recruited from within the PIU and remained until March 1994 whcn she was recruited for
work in the private sector. The fourth Depuy Coordinator was also recruited from within
the PIU andchas since remained with the Project.
One PIU staff mcmber was recruited in early 1993 and assigned responsibility for
disbursement matters. The Disbursement Officer has remained with the Project until now.
Despitc the initial replacements for the Deputy Coordinator poaition, a good measure of
continuity in the staffing of the PIU has been maintained.
Hifab's procurement support was initially established on a half-time basis. The first
Procurement Adviser remained with the Project until end February 1994 when he left for



Page 2
another asinment elsewhere. The successor remained with the Projoct until end August
1994 when lt was aereed that continued support would bc provided on a "from time to
time" basis only. Hifab's procurement support to the PIU by means of work in Vilnius was
essentially discontinued in carly 1995 but has continued by means of support over fax and
phone on an "ad hoc" basis until now.
REL4TIONS BETWEEN THE PIU AND THE PURChASERS
The major functions of the PIU  have been (i) the overall responsibility for
communications with the World Bank, (ii) the management of loan funds and (iii) the
organization of procurcment and disbursement for the various bid packages identified for
financing under the loan. These tasks involved regular contacts with concerned staff from
the purchaser organizations for purposcs of planning the bidding process, preparing
technical specifications, drafting bid documents for the Bank's prior review, distributing
the bid documents, organizing the public opening of bids, carrying out evaluation and
comparison of bids, the preparation and presentation of evaluation reports for the Bank,
the notification of contract awards, the finalization of contracts, the opcning of documen-
tary credits, the preparation of disburscment applications to the Bank as well as the issue
of paymcnt instructions to thc (commercial) bank holding the Special account. Naturally,
these tasks were carried out in close collaboration with tie various purchasers being the
beneficiaries of the loan. Obviously, the responsibility for the preparation of technical
specifications as well as the technical examinations of the bids remained with the
purchasers. Nevertheless, it appeared in mid 1993 that the division of work between the
PIU and the purchasers had to bc revised since the PIUl had become overburdened; it had
in fact become a centcr for intense activity but also a bottleneck.
In the beginning, most purchasers didn't have telefax communications. Nor did they have
much in the way of language capabilities suitable for communicating with suppliers from
western parts of Europe. The PIU most often had to assume responsibility for
conmmunications between the purchasers and the suppliers. These communications
covered a range of issues, some of which could only be addressed by the purchascrs and
others which concerned the purchasers and the PIU. In the lattcr category fell, of course,
questions concerning payments, I/Cs etc.
It should be kept in mind that the range of activities of the MOF involving the PIU staff as
well as other staff working in the PItJ office had expanded considerably during the fint
year of Project implementationi. Given the fact that the office equipment (incl. telefax and
telephones) available to the PIU at this time was very limited, the same very soon proved
to be inadequate for the increasing levol of activitice. It became necemary_to encourage
thc purchaser  to communicate directly with their suppliers and vice versa. Tie purchasers
werc requested to take a more active rolc in condusion of contracts, the opening of docu-
mentary credits etc. so that they would be better informed and, accordingly, in a better
position to respond to supplier inquiries immediately and directly. Informal and
improvised on-the-job training was provided. A more formal training exercise was
conducted at the end of 1993. Improvements were noticeable as we all gradually learnt
from experience.
REL4ATIONS BTWEN THE PWAND THE WORLD BANK
In general, the relations betwecn the PIU and the Bank have been very good. We have
found the Bank staff being very supportive and understanding of our working situation
and of our problems. The replacement of the first Task Manager in June 1993 meant no
loss of continuity since the successor was an original mcmber of the team and very well
informed of all relevant issues.



Page 3
There may have been a few instances of friction between individual members on both
sides but those have been due to differences caused by pressure for time and the fact that,
for PIU staff, Project duties normally compete with other regular duties of the MOF. On a
personal as well as a professional basis, we have enjoyed working with our Bank
colleagues.
PROCUREUENT ISSUES
The predominant procurement procedurc has been, in compliance with the loan
agreement, international competitive bidding (ICB). This is a formalized, rather
cumbersome and time-consuming procedurc required by the Bank, partly in the interest
of achieving a competitive suppl- situation, partly due to its interest in assuring ac-
countability and transparcncy in the procurement process. Six months is not uncommon
from the date of advertisemcnt of the bid opportunity to the date of arrival of the first
shipments of, say, pharmaceuticals. Complete delivery of the urgently needed UNICEF
basic drugs took well over a ycar. It was possible to obtain the first deliveries of diesel fuel
within three months duc to (a) the Banks prompt review of bid documents and evaluation
reports and its aement to shoten the period of advertisement and (b) the fact that
certain suppliers had quantities available for immediate delivcry and in fact did deliver
before having obtained documentary credits. Limited International Bidding (ICB) and
International Shopping (ISH) procedures were followed latcr in the Project when the
amounts involved so permitted, given that the identities of a sufficient number of capable
suppliers werc known. Obviously, knowledge of major supplicrs and market conditions
was very limited in thc beginning of the Project. Even if ICB had nt. I becn required under
the provisions of the loan agreement, advertisement would have been necessary anyway.
Later procurement actions for second-hand buses and medical and dental equipment for
use by private practitioners became, in the first instance, a total failure and for the others
ess successful. In the case of dental equipment, after two years, the work by the agent, SK
Impex, was accomplished but the company still has some goods in stock. In the case of
medical eqwipment, thc procurement was actually taken over the Ministry of Health and
the equipment was allocated to state hospitals. These actions reflcct an incompatibility
between the Banks traditional approach to public procurement, guided as it is by
mcasurable criteria, and the more subjective assessments guiding the actions by private or
semi-private investors. Very considerable efforts on the part of the PIU and the
purchasers concerned went imto the preparations of technical specifications and bidding
procedures; cfforts which in hindsight must be deemed clearly unjustifiablc in view of the
amounts involved at the time required.
DISBURSEMENT ISSUES
The initial work on opening of documentary credits became a learning experience for the
banks involved as wcll as for the PIU. None of the Lithuanian banks approached had
much in the way of prior experience in this regard. The quality of scrvice demonstrated by
the first bank selected for this task, the State Commercial Bank, turned out to be
unacceptable and the PIU decided to move its business to another bank, the Vilniaus
Bankas.
The lenpth of time required for the issue of the Bank's Special Conmitmnent Procedures
was initially seriously underestimated. Experience soon showed that it took four to five
weeks from the dispatch (by couricr service) of the application to the arrival at the
beneficiary's bank of the Bank's Special Commitmcnt. Having gained this experience, we
were subsequently in a better position to give more prccise advicc on this point to the



Page 4
sup,pliers and their bank, thus being able to remove a source of considerable concem and
activity from the agendas of purchasers as well as suppliers.
TRAINING
The Project has, in several respects, been an excellent vehicle for training.
The Bank provided training in procurement proccdures in Riga, Latvia, in late 1992 in
which two PIU staff participated and in Minsk Byelorussia, in May, 1993 in which another
PIU staff member participated. An opportunity for training in disbursement procedures
was offered in Warsaw, Poland, for one PIU staff member in mid 1993.
The PIU began early on to provide "on-the-job-training' to purchaser staff, explaining the
stcps and concepts involved in ICB procuremcnt. A two day seminar was arranged by the
PIU in collaboration with Farmari,ja in Januay 1993 for continued training in contract
terrns, delivery and payment conditionrs, Incoterms concepts, basic conmercial bankdng
terms and procedures to be followed in connection with thc opening of documentary
credits.
In October, 1995 the PIU organiized the training seminar in the Ministry of Finance for
prospective beneficiaries of other on-going World Bank loans like the Ministry of Social
Security, the Ministry of Urbanistics, etc.
LESSONS LEARNED
Collaboration with the World Bank was fruitfull and valuable both for the PTU staff and
the purchascrs. For sevcral purchascs, the procedures and approaches adopted in the ICB
bidding process provided an opportunity to organize their business activities in the similar
nianner.
One conclusion is fairly obvious at this stage: if the loan had been used exclusively in
accordance with its original objectives; for procurement of commoditics (diesel fuel and
natural gas) and other standard products likc pharmaccuticals and spare parts, the Project
would have been accomplishecd within its original time framc (mid 1994). Due to the
requests for financing from thc beneficiaries concened, supported by thc State Loan
Commission (a body crcated in late 1993), the Bank departed from its traditional
approach. It agreed to finance the procurement of used buses and medical and dental
equipment for use in the privatc sector. These procurement actions proved to be quite
complicated and time-consuming. As we know now, implementation was extended
considerably. Besides perhaps unnecessarily helping to prolong the implementation of the
Project, the State Loan Commission did not havc a noticeable effect on the administration
of loan funds.
BAndr,l Bilkis
U Deputy Coordinator



IBRD 26177
To S.Id.,J                      ToRiga    L A T V I A
NicakTo Rigo                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
-k               Mazeiki        N                                                                                   0    10   20    .0   .0   00
lipGpoef 18 --_ - /} Akmene                        J       oniskis Aka0\                                                           20 30n1
Boltic  i   -  4 l                                      /                     \1  Birzoi,J                                        MILES     30
Sea  ,"PoPlo                      ;                                                                   Pondelys
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                 To _Drng;g,a>LWpilsrFil
KLAIPEDAk                                                                                                         ;
.R/ gts L6ilule                                                                      0 niai  \  //J   X  \ fJ    ,eg  BELARUS
4-         4480ilu. 4e
N      ras       N          Taur_a4ii}ss\40 ~> 
KuriuL-  Jurborkos \ /XUmgt^J
Lagoon                                                                     { Jon \ v^, 
F E D E R A T I O  N                                                       Elak-    J renea> n-onoy              
_________________________________  To K- d- Prien_i_ _                   /
MO ampol   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~*NATIONAL CAPITAL
|  URBAN AREAS      ELEVATIONS
IN METERS:
=SELECTEDt- CItIES
S>WEDEN~  Sea                FED                                                                                                                         300
SWEDEN ~ ~      ~       ~       ~                   -                                                               TRUNK ROADS
~' LATVIA'                                                                                                                             50
J
To S-a.oIki                       "vrnimAIN ROADS                                                    L    0
LIThUANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RALOD
->'~ HUo'        1 < e            POL N                                                       d                        -*  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
POLANDP                       LAN
| POLAND             BLARUS                              |                      /BE LA RU S
0)  _____________________________________________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUS Al9









IMAGING
Eieport No:     15650
Type: ICR



