Page  1
July 15, 1993
His Excellency Eduardas Vilkelis
Minister of Finance
Sermuksniy 6
2696 Vilnius, Lithuania
          Re:  Lithuania - Ln. No. 3524 LT
               Amendments to World Bank Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Minister:
     We refer to discussions between the Republic of Lithuania (the
Borrower), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) and to discussion with The Export Import Bank of Japan.
     The Bank is pleased to inform you that the Loan Agreement for
the Rehabilitation Loan between the Borrower and the Bank dated
October 23, 1992 (3524-LT) is amended as set forth below.
1.   The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as
follows:
                                   Amount of the
                                   Loan Allocated
                                     (Expressed in
          Category                   Dollar Equivalent)
     (1)  Pre-identified imports        $60,000,000
     (2)  Other imports                       -
                              Total$60,000,000
2.   Paragraph 2(i) of Schedule 1 is hereby deleted.
3.   Section 4.01 is amended to read as follows:
     "Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(1) of the General
     Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
          that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
          carried out; and
     (b)  subject to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph:
          (i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
               proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower by The
               Export Import Bank of Japan for the financing of
               the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
               or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
               the terms of any such loan agreement, or
          (ii) any such loan shall have been declared due and
               payable by The Export Import Bank of Japan prior
               to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (c)  subparagraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if
          the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
          that:  (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
          declaration is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
          to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
          and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
          the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
          consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
          this Agreement."
4.   A new Section 4.02 is added as follows:
Page  2
     "Section 4.02.   For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
     General Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant
     to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
     paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
     occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) of that
     Section."
     Please confirm the Borrower's agreement to such amendments by
signing, dating and returning to us a copy of this letter.
                                   Sincerely yours,
                              /s/  Basil Kavalsky
                                      Director
                                   Country Department IV
                               Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA on 8/2/93
Copy to:
     Minister Veselka
     Minister of Economy
     Vilnius, Lithuania
